                     Document of
                   The World Bank




                                              Report No: 25670-JO




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                (CPL-38640; SCL-3864A)

                        ON A

                        LOAN

           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION

        TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN




                       FOR A

HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN II




                      06/26/2003

                                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                        (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2002)

                                                   Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar
                                                                 JD 1 = US$ 1.41
                                                           US$ 1.00 = JD 0.71

                                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                                            July 1     June 30

                                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       : Country Assistance Strategy                                  IPC       :  Intermediary Policy Council
CC        : Community College                                            ITU       :  Intermediary Technical Unit
CDTP      : Curriculum Dissemination Training Program                    LCB       :  Local Competitive Bidding
CIDA      : Canadian International Development Agency                    LRC       :  Learning Resource Center
CPPR      : Country Portfolio Performance Review                         MENA      :  Middle East and North Africa Region
DFID      : Department for International Development                     MOE       :  Ministry of Education
DO        : Development Objective                                        MOF       :  Ministry of Finance
DCST      : Department of Curricula and School Textbooks                 MOP       :  Ministry of Planning
EMIS      : Educational Management Information System                    MOPW      :  Ministry of Public Works
EPER      : End of Completion Report                                     MTR       :  Mid-Term Review
ERfKE     : Education Reform for Knowledge Economy I Program             NBF       :  Non-Bank Financed
ERP       : Education Reform Program                                     NCEEE     :  National Center for Educational Examinations and
                                                                                      Evaluation
EU        : European Union                                               NCERD     :  National Center for Educational Research and Development
GDBIP     : General Directorate of Buildings and International Projects  NCHRD     :  National Center for Human Resources Development
GDCET     : General Directorate for Curriculum and Educational           ODA       :  Overseas Development Association
            Technology
GDEE      : General Directorate for Evaluation and Examinations          OECF      :  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
GDIPSB    : General Directorate of International Projects and School     OPEC      :  Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries
            Buildings
GDPSB     : General Directorate for Projects and School Buildings        PCR       :  Project Completion Report
GOJ       : Government of Jordan                                         PDO       :  Project Development Objective
GSSCE     : General Secondary School Certificate Examination             PIU       :  Project Implementation Unit
HCC       : Higher Certification College                                 PSR       :  Project Status Report
HRDSIL II : Human Resources Dev. Sector Investment Loan II               SA        :  Special Account
ICB       : International Competitive Bidding                            SAR       :  Staff Appraisal Report
ICDL      : International Computer Driving License                       SETVET    :  Sustained and Extending Technical Vocational Education
                                                                                      and Training
ICR       : Implementation Completion Report                             SOEs      :  Statement of Expenditures
ICT       : Information and Communication Technology                     TA        :  Technical Assistance
IDA       : International Development Association                        TIMSS-R   :  Third International math and Science Study-Repeat
IEA       : International Association for the Evaluation of Educational  TOR       :  Terms of Reference
            Achievement
IPD       : International Projects Department                            TVET      :  Technical and Vocational Education and Training
IS        : International Shopping                                       UNICEF    :  United Nations Children Fund
JBIC      : Japan Bank for International Cooperation                     VTC       :  Vocational Training Corporation
JICA      : Japanese International Cooperation Agency                    VTE       :  Vocational and Technical Education




                                                 Vice President:          Jean Louis-Sarbib
                                Country Manager/Director:                 Joseph P. Saba
                                   Sector Manager/Director:               Jacques Baudouy
                      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                      Bassam Ramadan

                                           JORDAN
                 HUMAN RESOURCES DEV.SECTOR INVESTMENT II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       33
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             38
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             40
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             41
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            46

Project ID: P005307                                                      Project Name: HUMAN RESOURCES
                                                                         DEV.SECTOR INVESTMENT II
Team Leader: Bassam Ramadan                                              TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: HUMAN RESOURCES DEV.SECTOR                               L/C/TF Number: CPL-38640; SCL-3864A
                            INVESTMENT II
   Country/Department: JORDAN                                                             Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (46%); Secondary education (46%); Central
                            government administration (6%); Tertiary education (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Civic engagement, participation and
                            community driven development (S); Education for the knowledge
                            economy (S); Social analysis and monitoring (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/15/1993                                        Effective: 07/03/1995              07/03/1995
   Appraisal:    11/08/1994                                            MTR: 01/31/1998                11/21/1998
    Approval:    03/30/1995                                         Closing: 06/30/2000               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN/NCHRD
                      Other Partners:      OECF/JBIC, CIDA, OPEC, DFID, EU

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jean-Louis Sarbib                              Caio Koch-Weser
Country Director:               Joseph Saba                                    Ram K. Chopra
Sector Manager:                 Jacques Baudouy                                Jacques Baudouy
Team Leader at ICR:             Bassam Ramadan                                 George Za'rour
ICR Primary Author:             John Cameron


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

        Jordan's educational reform strategy was framed in the late 1980s and the Bank supported it at
that time through the First Human Resources Development Sector Investment Loan (HRDSIL I). The
goals and objectives of the reform were still valid at the time of the preparation of the Second Human
Resources Development Sector Investment Project (HRDSIL II) but the tasks were incomplete. It is
apparent that a follow-on project made good sense and was designed to build upon the achievements of
HRDSIL I. HRDSIL II continued to support the reform program and its general project objective, as noted
in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was to improve educational quality.

        Project focus, as noted in the SAR, was to be on measures to enhance the teaching-learning
environment including teaching competencies, curricula and textbooks, administration and management,
and creating a strong institutional framework, particularly in relation to vocational and technical education,
examinations and national assessment. In addition, measures were to be sought aimed at economizing in
the use of public resources. The scope of the project was largely defined by the Education Reform
Program and the measures it supported were directed towards the realization of its goals over the
1995-2000 period.

        The project objective as set out in the SAR is clear in terms of meaning but not in terms of task or
extent. It is too open ended and it lacks a clear focus. Project development objectives should provide a
statement of the behavioral change expected from the target beneficiary group or institution and thus should
express a single development purpose that is realistic, specific, and measurable. This project's objective
does not have these qualities. The development objective is not reflected in Annex 1 (Proposed project
Components Matrix and Costs) nor in Annex 5 (Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators) of the SAR.

         In the Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), three strategic objectives supported the
CAS central theme to promote rapid and sustainable outward-oriented growth. These objectives and the
project's interventions are:

    (a) Assisting the Government to establish the enabling environment for sustained growth.
        Raising the quality of education and promoting higher cognitive skills as well as technical skills are
        an important element of this strategy.

    (b) Assisting the Government to address critical infrastructure constraints. Well over half the
        project's total budget of US$186.66 million was earmarked for critical infrastructure works in the
        education sector and it included school expansion and rehabilitation.

    (c) Assisting the Government to address human resources constraints more efficiently in
        education, health care, family planning and protection of the poor during adjustment. This
        project specifically targeted all levels of education through support to the development of
        professional and administrative staff, curriculum and textbook development, and critical education
        infrastructure.




                                                    - 2 -

          HRDSIL II was a complex and ambitious project. Apart from being large in terms of funding
requirements, it:

     (a) contained wide-ranging interventions in its components which dealt with most aspects of education;
     (b) required a significant level of coordination within the Ministry of Education (MOE) because of the
          large number of departments involved in the project in the ministry and because there was no
          effective central coordinating unit within the ministry;
     (c) involved the MOE, the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC), the Ministry of Higher Education
          (MOHE), and the National Center for Human Resource Development (NCHRD);
     (d) contained project and component objectives that were qualitative rather than quantitative and
          expectations may have been too high;
     (e) covered the entire country making geographic coordination difficult;
     (f) needed to be mindful of reform fatigue which resulted from a long period of reform within the
          sector;
     (g) dealt with a multitude of people and departments some of whom were not familiar with projects of
          this nature; and
     (h) involved multiple donors including the Government of Japan through the Overseas Economic
          Cooperation Fund (OECF), the Government of Canada through the Canadian International
          Development Agency (CIDA), the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the
          British Department for International Development (DFID), and the European Union (EU). In
          1999, OECF was merged with the Japan Exim Bank to become the Japan Bank for International
          Cooperation (JBIC).

3.2 Revised Objective:

          In Schedule 2 of the HRDSIL II Loan Agreement, dated June 2, 1995, the objective of the project
is given as "assist the Borrower in improving the quality of basic and secondary education, improving
technical and vocational education and training, and strengthening the institutions and operations of the
education sector through implementation of the second phase in 1995-2000 of its Education Reform
Program". The overriding meaning of this second objective is essentially the same as that noted in the SAR
but it is clearer and more specific.

3.3 Original Components:

          Three components were designed for the project.

(a)       Component 1: Deepening the Qualitative Impact of the Reform (US$36.9 million base cost)

          The objectives of this component were to: (i) improve and extend the in-service teacher training
program; (ii) develop the capacity to provide school-based in-service training and quality improvement
initiatives; (iii) sensitize teachers to diagnostic approaches and remedial intervention; (iv) improve the
capacity of trainers, administrators, and principals; (v) improve the provision of educational materials to
schools; (vi) extend the reform program to encourage school-based quality improvement initiatives; and
(vii) align tested content and objectives with new curricula; and (viii) extend the reform program to
strengthen and improve Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET). Five sub-components
were    designed     to   achieve   these   objectives:   (i)  staff development    (US$2.7  million);  (ii)
examinations/assessment (US$3.6 million); (iii) school-based innovations (US$0.4 million); (iv) TVET
(US$29.1 million); and (v) other sub-components including a pilot school-based in-service training
program, and the development of a mechanism to provide instructional materials to schools (US$1.2
million).




                                                       - 3 -

(b)      Component 2: Institutional Development (US$11.5 million)

         The objectives of this component were to: (i) enhance the capacity and upgrade the quality of the
General Directorate for Curriculum and Educational Technology's (GDCET) Learning Resource Centers
(LRCs); (ii) further improve the capacity for publishing and the distribution of textbooks and teachers'
aids; (iii) improve the functioning of the General Directorate for Evaluation and Examinations (GDEE);
(iv) strengthen the capacity of the National Center for Educational Research and Development (NCERD) to
undertake relevant research and to monitor the reform program; (v) institutionalize school building
management, control, and maintenance services; and (vi) provide for efficient and effective management of
HRDSIL II. Five sub-components were designed to achieve these objectives: (i) Learning Resource
Centers (US$3.5 million); (ii) textbook publishing and distribution (US$4.9 million); (iii) Feedback system
for the General Secondary School Certificate Examination (GSSCE) (US$1.9 million); (iv) educational
management information system (US$0.4 million); and (v) national assessment program (US$0.2 million).

(c)      Component 3: Improving the Facilities for Teaching and Learning (US$106.2 million)

         Component 3 aimed to: (i) improve the learning environment by enhancing the quality of school
facilities; and (ii) develop a rationalized civil works program to accommodate the high demand for
enrollment. The component was designed to achieve this objective through a program of school expansion,
rehabilitation of existing school buildings, and construction of new schools and buildings in existing
schools.

         The components and sub-components detailed above show the depth and scale of the project's
intervention into the sector. There is no doubt that the successful implementation of the sub-components
and components would have a positive impact on the sector and improve the quality of education in Jordan.
This project was, essentially, a follow-on project from HRDSIL I and it built upon the lessons and the
administration from that project. Even though the project is assessed (above) to be complex and ambitious,
the experience of MOE and NCHRD should have allowed it to manage the diversity of project inputs and
individual component objectives.     Any shortcomings in the ability of either institution to deal with
substantial project management matters were of a short-term or temporary nature only and could not have
been assessed to be significant problems when the project was designed.            Institutional capacity to
implement the project as designed was not an issue.


3.4 Revised Components:

         Three important changes occurred to the planned project interventions during implementation.
Changes occurred to TVET and LRC sub-components and several new activities were added which
addressed MOE's information technology requirements. Changes did not affect the development objective
and they were not considered to be project restructuring. They were not reported to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors.

         Considerable detail for the preparation and selection of sub-projects for the proposed TVET sub-
component of Component 1 was included in the SAR. It noted that total expenditure on the sub-component
was to be US$29.1 million and that the sub-component had been prepared to put into effect actions and the
means to address policy recommendations and agreed strategy.          The sub-component was effectively
replaced by one which was financed by the Bank, OECF, CIDA and the Government. The objective of the
sub-component was to make TVET more cost effective and sensitive to market signals and needs. Bank
funding focused on the Metal Industries Institute and the Mazar Training Center, OECF funding focused
on number of other sub-projects, and CIDA funding focused on strategic planning and capacity building
within the TVET framework.



                                                     - 4 -

         Due to delays in implementing the first phase of the Learning Resource Centers sub-component of
Component 2 and because the implementation of the second phase was contingent upon the successful
completion of the first phase, the second phase was cancelled. Funds saved were reallocated to the first
phase to meet additional costs.

         Savings accruing to the project during implementation resulted in agreement being reached between
the Government of Jordan (GOJ) and the Bank to include several information technology activities to the
project. During a project supervision mission in October 1999, project personnel from MOE, NCHRD,
and the Bank prepared an Interim Technology Plan for MOE. The plan aimed to take an integrated view of
information technology in the MOE focusing on: (i) teaching and learning; (ii) administration and
efficiency; and (iii) decision support. The plan had the following goals: (i) encourage creative thinking and
lifelong learning; (ii) enhance schools' linkages to the outside world; (iii) generate innovative processes in
education; and (iv) develop administrative efficiencies and improved decision making in MOE. The total
value of these activities was US$6.8 million and they comprised: (i) training centers and teacher
certification-- Component 1; (ii) computerization of the International Projects Department (IPD) within the
General Directorate for Projects and School Buildings (GDPSB) of the MOE--Component 2; (iii)
computerization of the textbook publishing process--Component 2; (iv) educational statistics and
management information system--Component 2; and (v) computers and software in schools--Component
3. These activities were all successfully integrated within the existing specified project components.

Project Delays and Extensions

         HRDSIL II was extended three times during implementation: first, by one year from July 1, 2000
to June 30, 2001; second, by an additional year from July 1, 2001 to June 30, 2002; and third, by six
months from July 1, 2002 to December 31, 2002.

         The first extension was primarily because project implementation was delayed by over twelve
months immediately after the project became effective because: (i) of a delay in reaching agreement with
OECF on the amount and components to be supported by the co-financier; and (ii) the unexpected breakup
of the GDPSB within the MOE undermined plans to strengthen it as a management body and to improve its
capacity. The second and third extensions were a result of delays in the construction of civil works and the
procurement of equipment.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

         Quality at entry is rated satisfactory by the ICR. HRDSIL II was a follow-on project to HRDSIL
I and this project was used, in part, to prepare the groundwork for HRDSIL II. In particular, studies were
undertaken in vocational education, curricula development, examination evaluation, teacher training
requirements, and school design and construction requirements. Each of these provided valuable input into
HRDSIL II. Additionally, and importantly, the key lessons learned from HRDSIL I were incorporated into
the project.

         Despite the fact that the project was relatively complex and ambitious and implementation was
delayed, design was sound. Technically, the project was ready for implementation at approval but constant
changes in policy makers, a reorganization of the MOE, and hesitation of the GOJ to commence civil works
prior to the effectiveness of the OECF support led to the implementation delays. The project was in line
with the CAS' and the GOJ's development priorities and it is clear that the Government was committed to
the project despite successive changes in ministers.




                                                     - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         Project outcome is assessed to be satisfactory because it is apparent that the project had a positive
impact on the sector and improved educational quality. Most sub-components and components were
implemented and completed (see Annex 1) and this resulted in: (i) a very significant number of teachers and
administrators being trained; (ii) significant improvements in curricula and in school and other teaching
institutions' facilities; (iii) improved access to electronic and other systems in schools and the MOE; (iv)
major improvements in textbook content, publishing and distribution systems; and (v) the construction and
fitting out of many new school buildings and the rehabilitation of others.

         In addition to the specific project outcomes noted here, there is also some anecdotal evidence that
the comparative academic performance of Jordanian students has improved in recent years. This has come,
in part, via the country's participation in several international benchmarking programs including
mathematics and science achievement tests, as part of the Third International Mathematics and Science
Study (TIMSS), and the World Education Indicators Program (WEI).                  In the 1991 International
Assessment of Educational Progress (IAEP), out of twenty participating countries Jordan finished ahead of
only Brazil and Mozambique in the mathematics and science tests for thirteen year olds. In 1999, Jordan
participated in the TIMSS for the first time and, although not strictly comparable to the IAEP, Jordan
finished ahead of six countries (Iran, Indonesia, Chile, Philippines, Morocco and South Africa) in
mathematics, and ahead of eight countries (Iran, Indonesia, Turkey, Tunisia, Chile, Philippines, Morocco,
and South Africa) in science from a total of thirty-eight countries. Average grades for females were about
the same as for males in mathematics and about 4 percent higher than males in science in the 1999 TIMSS.

         One of the key considerations when determining the overall assessment was the impact the project
had on the poor and those in most need of education resources. The project aimed at improving access and
quality of basic public sector education throughout Jordan. Areas and schools were prioritized for project
resources with disadvantaged schools and areas receiving the highest priority. While it is not possible to
assert that all programs were implemented according to strict needs, there is no available evidence to
suggest that the project's order of priority was altered to favor more affluent schools or areas.       As a
consequence, works that were not completed as a result of any project shortcomings did not impact unfairly
on people in most need.

         Program partners corroborate this satisfactory assessment. The European Union (EU) provided
grants of EUR 4.7 million for technical assistance and scholarships to improve the quality and relevance of
undergraduate pre-service education in a number of universities. In the EU Project Completion Report
(PCR), the overall project outcome was assessed as satisfactory. In particular, the PCR noted that the
project was successful in promoting greater awareness and understanding of practice oriented education but
it highlighted that follow up will be necessary by participating universities and MOE to ensure
sustainability of program results. Although the EU involvement was not an integral part of HRDSIL II, its
goals are in line with the education reform program.




                                                       - 6 -

        CIDA's part of the project focused on the TVET sub-sector. The End of Project Evaluation
Report (EPER) commissioned by CIDA concluded that the decision to focus its attention on the TVET
sub-sector was a wise one which led to a significant impact and positive change. It further noted that much
has been achieved and that the TVET program is set on a clear (but long) path of reform. The EPER noted
that one measure of the success of the program was the increased capacity of the NCHRD. The report also
sounded a word of caution resulting from NCHRD's increased capacity. It states that there is some risk
that donor and partner requirements may cause NCHRD to become over stretched. It noted the need to
develop appropriate strategies for the use of project resources that recognized the challenges posed by
NCHRD's additional responsibilities.

        During project implementation, six studies were undertaken by NCHRD which evaluated the
impact of the project's interventions. These evaluations covered the entire education reform process and, as
such, covered inputs for both the HRDSIL I and HRDSIL II projects. Nevertheless, these evaluations are
believed to provide the best assessment available on the overall impact of HRDSIL II and, as a
consequence, the ICR placed significant weight on the results of the evaluations when assessing the overall
outcome of the project and the achievements of each of the project's components. The six studies are: (i)
teacher preparation, certification and training; (ii) establishment of general directorates in the field; (iii)
examinations; (iv) school curricula and textbooks; (v) school buildings and facilities; and (vi) a Bank
commissioned review of constructed schools and related facilities.

4.2 Outputs by components:

        Annex 1 (Key Performance Indicators) provides details of each of the projects components and
sub-components. They are summarized here as follows.

Component 1: Deepening the Qualitative Impact of the Reform

Component outputs

        Sub-component 1: Staff Development

        Training principals and assistant principals........................... 7,000 personnel attended training
        Training educational administrators and counselors............... 3,220 personnel attended training
        Staff development and in-service teacher training................. 40,000 personnel attended training
        Staff development- training trainers................................... 2,800 personnel attended training
        Teacher and staff training on basic computer skills ................ 1,219 teachers passed exams

        Personnel trained under this component have generally exceeded the number targeted in the SAR.
In the case of principals and assistant principals, numbers trained were 250 percent higher than targeted in
the SAR, the number of administrators trained was 700 percent higher than planned, and the number of
trainers trained was about 200 percent higher than planned.         The number of teachers who attended
in-service training was about 90 percent of the number planned.




                                                     - 7 -

         Evaluation of the impact of staff development is difficult because of the necessarily qualitative
nature of the assessment and the very large number of personnel who have undertaken the training over a
wide geographic area. Nevertheless, studies undertaken by the project show that: (i) programs have
contributed significantly to the improvement of teaching practices; (ii) they were relevant to schools'
curricula; and (iii) teachers suffer from many constraints which prevent them from taking full advantage of
the training they received. These same studies also highlighted a number of weaknesses in the training
programs. Important criticisms of the programs included: (i) program objectives lacked clarity; (ii) some
courses and materials were poorly related to training needs but, in general, objectives and topics were
sufficiently related to the education reform program's objectives; (iii) many trainers needed training and
they did not have practical teaching experience; (iv) training venues were poorly equipped; (v) other duties
often interfered with participants gaining full advantage of courses; and (vi) program coordination between
the MOE and universities was not good.

         Sub-component 2: General Secondary School Certificate Examination (GSSCE) Reform

         Aligning GSSCE with new curricula..................     Implemented and completed with DFID grant
         Classroom diagnostic tests.......................................... Diagnostic tools and tests produced

         Both of the tasks were completed satisfactorily and the sub-component has made a significant
contribution to building capacity in examinations.         The project was instrumental in establishing a
diagnostic evaluation and assessment program. Results from a study of examinations show: (i) there has
been a marked improvement in the quality of tests and a shift towards testing higher mental processes
rather than straight recall; (ii) exams often mix objective and essay questions; (iii) there is a move to
limiting complex and open ended questions; (iv) that students hold the view that teachers' tests are not
sound and feed-back is lacking; and (v) teachers require more training in testing techniques.

         Sub-component 3: School Based Innovation

         Pilot school based innovation program for creativity......................Financed 61 proposals

         Proposals in the first phase of the program focused on production and investment projects with the
potential to generate income. This focus changed in the last two phases as a result of program workshops
and the quality of proposals improved significantly. Second and third phase sub-projects, which included
projects such as learning resource rooms, the production of educational material and school journals, and
scientific clubs, were more successful because they built partnerships between teachers and students and
because proposals paid more attention to learning and instructional aspects of education.                   As a
consequence, the educational environment of schools improved.             One further outcome was increased
competition between students which enhanced creativity in schools participating in the program.
Importantly, the program highlighted the necessity to provide a level of authority and empowerment to
school principals with introduced innovations if similar programs are to be successful. The MOE was
asked to prepare an evaluation of the sub-component to assess the extent to which objectives were achieved
and to note lessons learned but this was not undertaken.




                                                     - 8 -

         Sub-component 4: Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Programs

         TVET........................................................................................... Work on-going

         This sub-component was divided into two further sub-components; the first was financed by the
Bank, and the second by OECF. CIDA financed the technical assistance part of the sub-component. Bank
funding was used for works and equipment at the Metal Industries Institute and the Mazar Training Center
and OECF funding was to be used for: (i) the construction, extension and fit out of comprehensive schools;
(ii) equipping and furnishing new workshops; (iii) upgrading equipment in existing schools; and (iv) the
construction and fit out of buildings at selected training centers. Work on the two institutes funded by the
Bank is complete and the institutes are operational. Work on the majority of the sites funded by the OECF
is complete with the balance expected to be completed by the loan closing date of November 23, 2003.

         Outcomes have varied across the institutions which have participated in the program. However, on
balance, the impact of the program on the sector has been substantial. The program initially involved the
development of a vision and strategy for TVET and the legislative framework to enable the vision to be
implemented. In addition, gaining the support from all stakeholders for program change was a significant
achievement which was accomplished under the project. These achievements are now well established and
have been transformed into a practical program which is being implemented, in part, in the buildings
financed by the sub-component.

         Sub-component 5: Provision of Instructional Materials at Schools

         Libraries and education material to 529 remote schools............................ Partially completed

         This sub-component comprised three parts. The first involved the supply of laboratory equipment;
the second involved the supply of instruction materials; and the third part, was for the supply of library
books. Implementation of the sub-component was delayed because of procurement problems but eventually
all laboratory equipment was delivered. A change in administration at MOE resulted in amended priorities
and this, in turn, resulted in a more emphasis being placed on school computerization. As a result, the
second part of the sub-component was cancelled because it was no longer required and the third part was
cancelled because of time limitations and the impending closure of the project. The sub-component feel
short of achieving the design objectives.

         Overall, the component is rated satisfactory because: (a) targeted physical outputs were largely
met; and (b) the impact of the component interventions was, for the most part, positive.

Component 2: Institutional Development

         Component outputs

         Sub-component 1: Learning Resource Centers (LRCs)

         Extend learning centers........................................ 1 center upgraded and extended (Karak)
         Establish learning centers.................................... 2 centers established (Balqa and Amman)
         Provide equipment to centers.....................................        Equipment supplied to six centers




                                                       - 9 -

         This component initially involved two phases. The first involved upgrading facilities and equipment
for six existing LRCs. The second involved the establishment of two more LRCs. The second phase was
cancelled because of delays in the implementation of the first phase and because the second phase was
contingent upon an evaluation of LRCs after they were operational.

         Phase one was not completed successfully because procurement problems resulted in the
cancellation of a key procurement package. As a consequence, some of the planned equipment was not
delivered. Nevertheless, the capacity of LRCs has been extended and the institutions have taken on new
training responsibilities including information and communication technology (ICT) training of trainers and
increased integration of ICT in the curricula and routine teaching in classrooms.

         Sub-component 2: Textbook Publishing and Distribution

         Computerize publishing and distribution systems........ Computerized publishing system installed
         Textbook publishing based on new curriculum........................   Textbook revisions completed

         Strengthen textbook distribution system.. Distribution system and regional warehouses operational
         Improve trialling and evaluation mechanisms for textbooks.......... Mechanisms fully operational

         As noted, all aspects of the sub-component have been completed. The computerized publishing
system is in place, textbook distribution systems have been developed, textbook publishing has increased
significantly, and a textbook trialling and evaluation mechanism is fully operational.

         During project implementation, an evaluation was undertaken of school curricula and textbooks.
This study included: (i) an analysis of four school subjects' curricula for basic and secondary education;
(ii) an analysis of textbooks developed for five grades for four school subjects; (iii) an analysis of teachers'
guides for each of the school textbooks analyzed; (iv) a description and analysis of the curriculum
management process; and (v) an analysis of performance of grade four students by development
achievement tests in four subjects. Results from the study were mixed and it appears that reviewers were
critical of the content of some books. It is clear that the reviewers provided MOE ample feedback on where
performance and standards can be improved.

         Sub-component 3: Strengthen the General Directorate for Examinations and Evaluation
         (GDEE)

         Strengthen administrative and feedback systems for GSSCE................................. Completed

         Despite delays and variation orders exceeding 40 percent of the contract price, the new GDEE
building is complete and equipment has been delivered and is operational. The National Center for
Examination and Evaluation (NCEE) will be incorporated into the new premises. The mandate and draft
law of NCEE has been finalized, cleared by the responsible legal departments and awaits cabinet approval.


         Sub-component 4: Planning Research and Development, and Computerize International
         Projects Section of the MOE

         Strengthen capacity of the NCHRD and the MOE to manage EMIS..................             Implemented
         Computerize International Projects Section of the MOE .................................. Implemented




                                                      - 10 -

         This sub-component modernized the process of collecting, analyzing, and accessing statistical and
management information relating to education and computerized the International Projects Section of the
MOE. All hardware has been delivered, installed and tested and staff training has been provided in
database design, development, and administration, and statistical analysis. It has resulted in more timely
and relevant data.

         Sub-component 5: NCHRD Sample Based National Assessment

         Establish a system for national assessment...................................................Implemented

         NCHRD and MOE are engaged in two national assessment projects: (i) the Third International
Mathematics and Science Study-Repeat (TIMMS-R) and the third round of the National Assessment of
Instructional Quality. This work has provided high quality information and it has established a nation wide
forum on the key achievement related issues of the Jordanian education system. In addition, NCHRD
commissioned local researchers to conduct seven evaluation studies which assessed the relative impact of
key components of the educational reform program. The main goal of these studies was to identify areas
for further reform.

         Despite a somewhat mediocre evaluation of textbooks and curricula, the component is rated
satisfactory because each of the sub-components was effectively implemented, data on the development of
textbooks and teachers' books show progress over a relatively short period of time, and the component has
successfully established a number of processes and procedures which will maintain the momentum of the
reform program and effectively manage sector resources.

Component 3: Improving the Facilities for Teaching and Learning

         Component outputs

         Develop a Rationalized Civil Works Program to Accommodate the Higher Demand for
         Enrollment

         Construct new schools..................42,200 places created in 1,207 classrooms in 66 new schools
         Extend classroom in existing schools................... 719 classrooms built in 134 existing schools
         Other facilities in existing schools...    43 laboratories, 36 workshops, 45 libraries, & 45 halls built
         Provide new and enlarged schools with equipment...........................................     Completed
         Structural repairs to existing schools.................. Partially completed- 600 schools rehabilitated
         Install new sanitary facilities................................... Partially completed- 234 units installed
         Established computer laboratories in 131 schools and train teachers ............ Partially completed

         The original target for this component was to increase the number of places in existing and new
schools by about 40,000. This target was exceeded by about 5 percent. Other key targets were to: (i)
reduce double shifting in existing schools by 5,000 places; (ii) reduce rented and inadequate buildings by
23,000 places; and (iii) increase the number of student places by 37,000 places. Actual data as at 2002
shows that the number of students in double shift schools increased from 116,000 in 1991 to 153,000 in
2002; an increase of some 32 percent. The number of students in rented schools decreased from 329,000 in
1991 to 110,000 in 2002; a decline of nearly 70 percent. Structural repairs to existing schools and the
installation of new sanitary facilities were partially completed. It was planned to undertake structural
repairs to 843 schools and fit sanitary facilities to 285 schools.

         Two reviews were undertaken of this component.               A project sponsored review assessed: (i)
engineering and technical aspects; (ii) the management and educational process; and (iii) the utilization of


                                                       - 11 -

school facilities. The Bank also commissioned a review of constructed schools and related facilities which
assessed: (i) design and technical aspects of the component; and (ii) the utilization of school facilities.
Findings from the reviews are summarized in Section 10 (Additional Information).

         This component was ambitious as it involved the construction and fitting out of many relatively
small units on many sites over a wide geographic area in a relatively short period of time. Additionally, it
included the rehabilitation of 843 existing school buildings and the installation of 285 sanitary facilities.
The two evaluations that reviewed the implementation of the component noted a number of problems with
the program (see Section 10). Some of these problems and criticism were significant and many probably
relate to per unit funding availability. It is hoped that lessons learned from these reviews will be taken into
account in any future construction programs. Notwithstanding these criticisms, the component is rated
satisfactory because the main construction program for new schools and buildings was completed and it
achieved its project target, 70 percent of the targeted rehabilitation works were completed and 82 percent of
the targeted sanitary units were installed. Targeted rehabilitation works and sanitary installations were not
achieved because of inadequate budget, despite some fund reallocation from other categories.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         The projected economic rate of return was not calculated in the SAR and it is not deemed
appropriate to attempt to include it in the ICR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         As with the economic rate of return, the financial rate of return was not prepared for the ICR nor
was a cost efficiency evaluation undertaken. (The Educational Expenditures Study provides some relevant
material on cost efficiency.)

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         HRDSIL II provided a significant level of resources for the development of key institutions within
the sector. On balance, the project's objectives achieved their desired outcome and, as a consequence,
institutional development impact is rated substantial.

         Two of the three components of this project had a particularly notable focus on training. The first
component (Deepening the Qualitative Impact of the Reform), contained a specific sub-component dealing
with MOE staff development. This sub-component included training of school principals, teachers, school
administrators, councilors, and trainers. Effectively, all levels of the teaching profession had access to
some form of training which was specifically designed to support GOJ's reform program. Each of the
other sub-components in the component also provided training opportunities for non-teaching personnel
within the MOE. The second component (Institutional Development), specifically targeted the development
of the MOE and the strengthening of the services it provided in each of its five sub-components. Specific
examples here include curriculum development, examinations, ICT, and continuing teacher education and
national assessment through the LRCs. MOE was strengthened here through training and the provision of
other resources. The training and development within the sector from the project was aimed at all levels
but it is clear that a very significant level of training was aimed at the rank and file. The impact of this
training may not be immediately apparent but because of the depth of the intervention and the range of
topics covered, it is clear that the project will have an impact on MOE's human resources and, as a
consequence, this will positively impact on the overall development of the sector. There is strong evidence
that project funded training has already had an impact on the sector. However, it will be important to try to
follow up and reinforce the training provided by the project if its full potential benefit is to be achieved.




                                                      - 12 -

         Project development and implementation built on MOE and NCHRD project management skills.
Each organization was provided with project resources within their existing structure for project
preparation and implementation. Even though there was a project implementation unit within the MOE
(IPD) this was ineffective. As a consequence, a broad range of full time people in key departments in the
MOE have benefited from the experience gained through the implementation of the project. In addition to
utilizing these skills on other investment projects, these people will have a perceived ownership with a
consequential interest in the maintenance of assets financed by the project.

         Overall project coordination was the responsibility of NCHRD. Because there was no effective
project implementation unit within MOE, no person, apart from the Minister of Education, was singularly
responsible for the project in MOE. Personnel within NCHRD clearly benefited from the implementation
experience and this will be put to great advantage in other projects. NCHRD flourished during project
implementation and an effective division of labor developed between NCHRD and MOE to compensate for
the lack of an effective implementation unit. This partnership resulted in an effective, efficient, and
transparent implementation arrangement. On the down side, there are two issues to consider. First,
NCHRD's preoccupation with day to day project and sector management matters has seen its capacity in
educational policy analysis and research dwindle. This trend is likely to continue unless MOE and other
sector agencies are strengthened to enable them to manage project implementation with NCHRD providing
strategic inputs that are more in line with their original mandate. Second, it is unfortunate that no career
public servant within MOE gained experience in overall project management and coordination from
HRDSIL II as this would have been invaluable for MOE. Nevertheless, there is little doubt that the project
has improved the MOE's, NCHRD's and Jordan's ability to make more effective use of its human and
other resources.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         The Gulf War of 1991 resulted in an estimated five hundred thousand Jordanians and other
refugees returning from Iraq and from other Gulf countries (about 10 percent of the 2000 population of 4.9
million). Since the Gulf War, additional people have also come to Jordan because of the unrest in other
countries in the Middle East. The influx of these additional people strained the country's education system
and placed an additional burden on GOJ to make tens of thousands of new school places available.
Because of this additional strain, resources that were targeted to replacing double shift and rented schools
went to accommodating the new entrants at any available facilities that could be converted to schools. At
the same time, and for the same reasons, MOE's focus tended to shift from addressing quality issues to
meeting the urgent demands for new places.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         Frequent changes of Ministers of Education and senior MOE officials contributed to the delay in
project implementation and to institutional confusion as each new minister reorganized the ministry or
altered ministry policy, philosophy or orientation and new department heads tried to become familiar with
and reorganize their departments. These changes occurred throughout the project's life. The problem was
exacerbated by the fact that the IPD of the MOE was dysfunctional. This meant that there was no single
unit or person (apart from the Minister), such as a Project Director, in MOE who was effectively
responsible for project implementation. This problem was overcome to some extent because key MOE
departments displayed clear ownership and a strong commitment to the project. Department Heads and their
staff always engaged Bank staff freely and were generally totally conversant with the issues and problems of
the project which related to their departments. Additionally, continuity was always assured by the NCHRD,
which maintained a clear focus on the project's development objectives and implementation issues.



                                                     - 13 -

        Perhaps the single most important event that delayed project implementation was GOJ's decision
not to proceed with the implementation of major project components until all aspects of OECF support
were finalized. This had the effect of delaying the entire project for about twelve months. Other delays
were caused by the need to convince GOJ of the necessity to leave the responsibility for the construction of
school buildings with the MOE rather than complying with new GOJ regulations to have all government
buildings constructed by the Ministry of Public Works.

        MOE's General Directorate of Projects and School Buildings (GDPSB) was reorganized during
the early stages of the project. A number of well established functions within the department were moved,
managers were shifted and some responsibilities redistributed. Unfamiliarity of new managers with project
preparation, appraisal, approval and implementation procedures, caused some difficulties and in some
cases unavoidable delays or even cancellation of a number of activities. Reassignment of General Directors
after effectiveness who had helped develop project components resulted in confusion that impacted
negatively on the project.

        Prior to and during project implementation, the Bank provided key MOE project personnel with
training in important project management topics such as procurement and financial management. It is
disappointing to note that many of the staff trained under this initiative were lost to the project because of
staff movements. Apart from impacting on the MOE's capacity to implement the project these actions
meant that the project did not leave all the capacity in the Ministry targeted by the Bank's implementation
team.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

        At the start of HRDSIL II, NCHRD was well placed to have a significant input to the project and
to benefit from many of the numerous provisions offered by it.             Because: (i) NCHRD housed the
Intermediary Policy Council (IPC) and the Intermediary Technical Unit (ITU) and its terms of reference
expanded during the project's life; and (ii) its staff and capacity effectively remained the same, there were
times during implementation when project activities lacked effective monitoring and important decisions
were delayed by the IPC because of other commitments.

        MOE's financial management and accounting systems and staff were used to process this complex
project's financial data. Project financial management and control was fully functional and effective during
project implementation and project records show that financial and other legal covenants were in
compliance throughout project implementation. All audits were submitted in time and all were unqualified.

        There were times during implementation when communication, information sharing, and
coordination between directorates within the MOE were inadequate. These difficulties, which particularly
affected procurement, delayed project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:

        Total project cost is estimated to be US$183.27 million or about 98 percent of the appraisal
estimate of US$186.66 million. Expenditure under Components 2 (Institutional Development) and 3
(Improving the Facilities for Teaching and Learning) was below the Appraisal base cost estimate (76
percent and 92 percent of the appraisal base cost estimate, respectively) but expenditure under Component
1 (Deepening the Qualitative Impact of the Reform) was slightly over double the appraisal base cost
estimate of US$37 million. The net effect is a project which finished on budget. The ICR assesses that the
major reason why expenditure under Component 1 (Deepening the Qualitative Impact of the Reform)
finished at more than double appraisal estimates is the TVET sub-component. At Appraisal, sub-projects
within the TVET sub-component had not been identified and as a consequence, costs in the SAR were only
best bet estimates. This design aspect shows a deliberate and very plausible attempt by the design team to



                                                     - 14 -

build maximum flexibility into the sub-component because all co-financiers and the level of their support
had not been determined at appraisal. As a consequence, the TVET program could be developed after
appraisal to suit the level of co-financier support.

         At Appraisal, the Bank's input of US$60 million was estimated to be 32 percent of total project
cost with the Government and the co-financiers estimated at 36 percent and 32 percent, respectively. Final
cost estimates put the actual contribution of the Bank, the Government and the co-financiers at 31 percent,
29 percent, and 40 percent of the total, respectively. The small reduction in the Bank's share of total cost
was the result of increases in the co-financiers' contributions, especially in the TVET sub-component. The
reduction in the Government's share was also a result in added co-financiers support and also the fact that
planned Government expenditure of US$3.28 million in the maintenance of civil works and equipment was
abandoned.

         Original financing plans allocated expenditure for technical assistance between the Bank, GOJ, and
project co-financiers. This did not eventuate. Instead, most of the financing for technical assistance was
provided by co-financiers as grants. This outcome is in line with GOJ policy. It likely resulted in a more
satisfactory outcome because the GOJ's reticence to borrow for technical assistance would have probably
seen reduced inputs of less appropriate technical assistance.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         Sustainability of the outputs provided by a project of this nature and size is a major issue.
HRDSIL II dealt with the development of human capital, the development of supporting services, and an
ambitious works program for the rehabilitation, construction and fitting out of school and other education
related buildings and facilities throughout Jordan. All these items require significant levels of maintenance
if their utility is to be preserved.

         As noted elsewhere in the ICR, frequent changes in ministers, coupled with frequent changes of
MOE senior staff work against the processes of institutional development and this, in turn, may act against
sustainability. However, in the MOE, there has been stability in the lower echelons of key general
directorates and this helps to maintain the momentum generated by the project. General directorates such
as Curricula and School Textbooks, Examinations, Staff Development, and Facilities Improvement do keep
functioning and there is clear evidence that they will continue to evolve after the project closes. For
example, textbook publishing has developed and continues to improve its methods through desktop
publishing. The practice in the Examinations Department to gradually increase cognitive learning skill
assessment in questions and to analyze and provide feedback has been built in by the project and will
continue. The ICR notes that the project took care to ensure that any additional costs associated with the
maintenance and sustainability of the interventions in Component 1 (Deepening the Qualitative Impact of
the Reform) and Component 2 (Institutional Development) are not substantial relative to MOE's recurrent
budget. The project also ensured that these costs were integrated into the ministry's budget.

         Maintenance of school equipment such as computers, televisions and video equipment is usually
covered by a maintenance agreement with the supplier at the time it is purchased. Clearly, maintenance
contract conditions and duration vary from contract to contract but the MOE has been working towards the
formulation of a consistent policy to cover these purchases. It is also usual for district directorates to have
centers for maintaining school equipment. Maintenance of science laboratory equipment is problematic. It
is understood that teachers and laboratory technicians are responsible for breakages and missing items.
This provides a major disincentive for teachers to use this equipment.




                                                    - 15 -

         The MOE is active in training aimed at upgrading teachers' qualifications and providing training in
ancillary support equipment such as computing. Funding for much of teacher training in this project was
provided by local MOE funds. As it now stands, ongoing maintenance of teacher training is the
responsibility of regional directors who have a budget for this purpose. The adequacy of this budget outside
major projects such as HRDSIL II or the availability of time for staff to undertake the required training is
unclear but it is likely to be insufficient. There is currently a pilot program whereby a member of staff in
each school is responsible for the development of a training program for the staff of that school. Individual
schools do not have a budget for this purpose but they must rely on funding from the regional director.

         Annex 2 (Project Action Plans) of the SAR provides for the development and implementation of a
system for the maintenance of school buildings and maintenance training. It is apparent that this program
was abandoned in the early stages of implementation as no plan was developed nor maintenance training
undertaken. In effect, the project left the maintenance of assets to the existing MOE maintenance program
and resources. Maintenance, and thus sustainability, of school buildings is of concern to the ICR. One
large part of Component 3, (Improving the Facilities for Teaching and Learning) involved the rehabilitation
of existing school buildings and sanitary facilities. It is apparent that the reason for the need of this part of
the project was that there were inadequate funds available for on-going maintenance of these school
buildings at an earlier time.

         The MOE personnel confirm that funding for the maintenance of school buildings is problematic
and inadequate. It is also understood that the maintenance budget can also be used for other purposes as
perceived higher priorities emerge and funds are not available. One further problem with the maintenance
of school buildings built in this project is the fact that building quality does not appear to be as robust as
the construction of buildings in previous building programs.          The two reviews noted in Section 4.2
(Component 3) touch on this problem. It is not clear why a project of this magnitude and nature did not
include a significant sub-component to assist the GOJ develop an effective maintenance program or plan
for buildings built by the project and for school buildings generally.            Comprehensive and regular
maintenance is more cost effective than major inputs for rehabilitation from projects such as HRDSIL II.
MOE is currently preparing the National Maintenance program which will be implemented under the
Education Reform for Knowledge Economy I (ERfKE) Program, a third World Bank funded human
resources development project. Without this intervention, which should include school and community
involvement in maintenance, and which must include ongoing maintenance as well as rehabilitation, the
ICR can only conclude that the sustainability of school buildings delivered by the project is unlikely in the
long term.

         One significant side benefit from the project has been the development of an excellent institutional
working relationship between NCHRD, MOE, IPC, and ITU. During project implementation protocols
were developed and put into place which ensured that proposals for sub-projects were ready to be
implemented prior to their submission to the IPC. The entire system of checks and balances developed
during project implementation was new to the sector in Jordan and it has now been institutionalized. These
procedures will assist the sector to manage sector assets more effectively and this will aid sustainability.

         In summary, sustainability of benefits delivered by the project is rated likely. This rating is given
on the basis that the ERfKE I Program to be financed by the Bank will include a significant component
which will assist the MOE develop and implement an ongoing maintenance plan for school buildings and
other fixed assets. Other assets delivered by the project including school equipment, teacher training, and




                                                     - 16 -

teacher support services such as textbook development and examinations evaluations are likely to be
sustained because of the fundamental structure of the sector and motivation of key stakeholders.
Sustainability of project assets will also be greatly assisted by the participation of NCHRD in the sector.
This institution will contribute through their representation on key boards and committees and through their
leadership role in international and national assessments, and continuous interaction with the MOE and
monitoring of the country's ongoing changes to policies and practices.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         With only one exception (Daheiat Al Yasamein school), all new schools built by the project were
completed, staffed and operational by loan closing date. Al Yasamein school was delivered after loan
closing date. The sixty-six new schools built have a planned capacity of 42,000 places. When the project
closed, about 32,000 places or over 75 percent were occupied with students. All the rehabilitated school
facilities and school extensions completed by the project are operational and new and rehabilitated
buildings have been accepted and fully integrated into MOE's operations. Similar comments apply to other
project components and sub-components. As project components have been completed, they have been
fully integrated into MOE's operations. No transitional arrangements have been necessary for any aspect
of the project. However, as noted in Section 6.1 (Sustainability) the matter of the maintenance of assets is
an issue that must be addressed.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         GOJ's development priorities and the CAS' were supported by the implementation of the HRDSIL
II particularly because it provided extensive support in: (i) training throughout the sector; (ii) improving the
effectiveness of the services provided by the MOE; and (iii) providing much needed infrastructure in human
resource development in Jordan.

         HRDSIL II was relatively ambitious and this led to significant implementation delays. The Bank
probably overestimated the capacities of NCHRD and MOE to deal with a project of this size and
complexity. The project was designed to support the GOJ reform initiatives across most aspects of the
largest public sector in the country. Significant levels of Bank staff inputs were made during project
preparation (see Annex 4) and the skills mix was appropriate. It is clear that the Bank provided the
Borrower with a high level of technical support during project preparation. Additionally, the project was a
follow-on project and a considerable amount of preparation work had been done for HRDSIL II under the
previous project. Notwithstanding these very positive aspects, there were aspects of project design that
could have been improved. In particular, the project development objective could have been more focused
and a more effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism put in place.               Also, despite NCHRD's
important role in project management, the Bank could have been more attentive to the need of developing
an effective implementation unit within the MOE to follow up operational problems and ensure some
continuity in the ever changing MOE.

         Despite the apparent shortcomings in some aspects of project design, Bank lending is rated
satisfactory because: (i) of the conformity of the project to the Borrower's development priorities and the
CAS; (ii) the readiness of the project for implementation; (iii) the support provided to the Borrower by the
Bank during project preparation; and (iv) the fact that the project achieved its development objective within
budget.




                                                     - 17 -

7.2 Supervision:

        Over the course of implementation, the project has been supervised regularly with at least two
missions per year. Each mission was well staffed and contained an appropriate mix of skills. It is also
clear that the project has benefited from being supervised from the Bank's regional office in Beirut. Apart
from providing overall project management advice, the project benefited from procurement and financial
management advice provided by the task team. The project had three task managers; this is probably not
unreasonable given the project was implemented over seven and one half years and it is noted that there
were periods of overlap between each task team leader. The mid-term review was scheduled for October
1998 and it occurred just one month later in November 1998.

        Project documentation shows that supervision has been pro-active, coherent and flexible. It notes
that implementation issues were uncovered and addressed in time. The Bank's task team was able to
provide speedy and timely advice and solutions to problems that were readily accepted and appreciated by
the Borrower.     The reallocation of funds for the development of ICT initiatives beyond the simple
computerization of schools and the added supervision that this entailed is a case in point. It is also clear
that the task team was responsive to unavoidable changes and adjustments to the project in the interest of
achieving the main project goal.

        The ICR reviewed twenty-three Project Status Reports (PSR) from June 1995 to November 2002.
This review shows that the task team has been rigorous in recording project progress particularly in the
latter half of the project. A number of weaknesses were noted: (i) only one of the twenty-three PSRs
contains managers' comments but it is understood that the Bank's sector managers have been able to
provide the Borrower with substantial advice during field trips; (ii) none of the PSRs contain actual versus
target performance indicators; (iii) covenants were not reported until the October 1999 PSR; and (iv) the
section dealing with the Summary of Key Issues and Actions of all the PSRs were the same. NCHRD's
project management team provided the task team with excellent and timely project management
documentation which included financial and management reports. It is not clear why this material could
not be transposed into a simple physical reporting matrix for incorporation into the PSR.

        Supervision performance has, in general, been very good. This conclusion is supported by the
Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) which rated project supervision to be highly satisfactory during
its review of the project in the 2000 financial year. It is clear that the task team provided timely and
appropriate advice and that field visits were regular with an excellent mix of skills. It is also clear that
because the most recent task team leader was located in the field the project has benefited from a much
closer relationship that this geographic proximity provides. It is for these reasons that Bank supervision is
rated satisfactory.




                                                   - 18 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         The overall lending and supervision performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory. The basis of
this evaluation is: (i) a project consistent with GOJ and Bank development strategies; (ii) the assistance
provided to the Borrower during project preparation; (iii) the Bank's inputs during project preparation; and
(iv) the quality of the Bank's supervision, the intensity and skills mix of supervision missions, and the tasks
team's readiness to assist the Borrower with day to day project management matters.

         Unfortunately, budgetary constraints and regional political tension prevented the Bank fielding a
mission to collect data and host a post-project workshop for key project and Government personnel after
the project closed on December 31, 2002. This shortcoming was partially offset by a final supervision
mission in October 2002, but it is abundantly clear that the ICR team, the resulting ICR, and the Jordanian
project team would have benefited significantly from a dedicated mission and workshop to evaluate the
project more closely. The ICR records that a complex project with a final cost of some US$180 million
warrants a dedicated mission after closure, particularly as the Bank is planning a follow-on project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory because stakeholder commitment
during project preparation was very good and it is clear that MOE was most cooperative and provided
significant input into project design as is evidenced by the Project Action Plans and Implementation
Manual. However, project design was complex and there would have been elements of the project which
would have benefited from GOJ's more active involvement in project preparation. Specific issues such as
the coordination of project activities within the ministry, the delays to project start up, and the major issue
of maintenance of government property and other assets are a case in point.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         The frequency of the appointment of new ministers and the frequent organizational changes
contributed to a lack of effective long-term leadership at MOE. This was moderated though by the
presence of a strategic orientation which guided the education reform program (HRDSIL I and II) and the
country's emphasis on education. Stakeholders from other sectors continually reinforced this.

         Within MOE, the lack of organization of the IPD could be attributed to political conflicts. Because
the department was not well equipped, or staffed, the MOE was unable to effectively coordinate the
different departments involved in the project. This significant shortcoming was covered by NCHRD. It is
clear that if NCHRD had not taken part in the project some aspects of implementation would have suffered
more.

         Regardless of these two problems, Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory
because of the excellent work undertaken by each of the key MOE departments in the implementation of
this complex and demanding project and despite the organizational problems which continually confronted
the Ministry.




                                                     - 19 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

          Given its stretched capacity, the NCHRD was able to manage this complex project very
professionally. Proper procurement and financial records could not have been maintained without
NCHRD's vigilance and follow up to the MOE. Project records show that all financial and legal covenants
were in compliance at all times during project implementaion. The NCHRD was able to help the IPC
function in an independent manner and not be influenced by the various demands competing for loan
resources. Additionally and importantly, the NCHRD's independence from the MOE helped maintain
objectivity and fairness in the process of resource allocation and decision making although these were
mainly based on actions of the IPC whose membership is mostly from stakeholders outside the NCHRD.
Finally, both the NCHRD and the MOE were able to effectively manage all project donors in a coherent
and integrated way to maximize benefits which supported the project's development objective. It is for
these reasons that the performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

          Borrower performance is rated satisfactory because the overall performance of the GOJ and the
implementation agency was satisfactory, because the government participated in a positive way during
project preparation, and overall, because GOJ's team made a major contribution and commitment to the
implementation of a successful project.

8. Lessons Learned

On the basis of this evaluation, the project provides the following key lessons:

  (i)     Greater care needs to be taken to design a comprehensive evaluation program prior to school
          buildings and other works being accepted by the responsible ministry.

  (ii)    There is a constant message through project documents that the objectives of different programs
          were not clear, design was often inadequate and implementation not as efficient as it could be.
          Ongoing monitoring and evaluation could have been more tightly focused and disciplined. The
          sheer scale of the project and the multitude of sub-components, geographic spread and departments
          exacerbated these problems. Complex projects must have clear and measurable objectives, and an
          effective monitoring and evaluation system must be in place prior to project effectiveness.

    (iii) All projects which have a substantial capital construction component must include a
          comprehensive component or sub-component which specifically addresses the issue of maintenance
          of the works to be built by the project. All capital works should, as far as possible, be built to a
          standard that will minimize ongoing repairs and maintenance.

  (iv)    Effective monitoring and evaluation is fundamental for a complex project. Projects of this nature
          should consider contracting out this function to an organization not connected to project
          implementation. Indicators need to be both qualitative as well as quantitative.

  (v)     All projects must have a project director who is responsible for all implementation issues and who
          has adequate time to devote to project implementation matters. More complex projects involving
          more than one ministry or agency should have a project director in each ministry responsible for
          project implementation in each Ministry and that person should report to an overall Project
          Director.




                                                     - 20 -

  (vi)   The partnership of NCHRD and MOE resulted in effective implementation and it demonstrated
         how a two tier institutional structure can provide intellectual rigor and independent oversight apart
         from that provided by the more traditional oversight agencies such as ministries of planning or
         ministries of finance.

  (vii) Even though it is likely to take longer, future school building projects should involve local
         participation in deciding where new buildings should be sited and in building design. This will
         require a new approach over the existing program which promotes a very limited number of school
         building models with little local participation. Greater emphasis should also be placed on the
         construction of low maintenance buildings in existing schools even if this increases the initial
         capital cost.

  (viii) High caliber technical assistance is critical for an effective training program. Local experts and
         trainees benefit substantially from the skills and training techniques of world experts. Projects
         should not suffer because expenditure on high caliber technical assistance is perceived to be
         wasted.

  (ix)   When including a major (or any) training component in any program ensure trainers are competent
         and trained and adequate materials are available. Also ensure that: (i) the environment and timing
         is conducive to effective learning; (ii) there is a suitable incentive system in place for those to be
         trained; and (iii) that there is an effective and ongoing monitoring and evaluation program in place
         for all qualitative programs.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


                            The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
    The Second Human Resources Development Sector Investment Project
                                                  (HRDSIL II)
                                               Loan (3864-JO)

                              Implementation Completion Report

                                           Borrower's Contribution

Introduction

Pursuant to and in continuation of the Human Resources Development Sector Investment Loan (HRDSIL
I) Project the HRDSIL II Project was planned in the light of the lessons learned and experience gained from
the successful implementation of the first plan. The design of the plan took into account the continuous,
cumulative and interactive nature of the on-going 10-year-long education reform.

The long-term goal being raising student achievement levels by improving the quality and increasing the
relevance of basic and secondary education to the changing needs of labor market, the HRDSIL I had
focused upon building up the necessary infrastructure, curricular content, teaching/ learning methods and
materials, administration and supervision, textbooks and teacher guides' design, development and
production; and provision of essential school facilities.




                                                       - 21 -

Building upon the progress of the First Phase the sequel (HRDSIL II) set "Deepening the Qualitative
Impact of the Reform" as its central goal which is defined in terms of the following broad objectives: (1)
Improving the quality of basic and secondary education; (2) Improving the pertinence quality and
effectiveness of the Technical/Vocational Education and Training; and (3) Building up the institutional
structure and strengthening the operational capacity and efficiency of the institutions.

For practical implementation, the project comprises three broad interconnected components cutting across
one another along several dimensions. Each component has its own objectives that were to be realized
through design and implementation of a set of subprojects with their own well-defined objectives to be
achieved. The achievement of subproject objectives was critical to achieving the higher orders objectives of
the whole project because of the successive hierarchical nature of the objectives and the goals.

Project Components:

A.       Deepening the Qualitative Impact of the Reform by: (i) Staff development through enrichment and
specialized in-service training of teacher, supervisors, administrators and counselors; (ii) Modernizing the
examination, assessment, testing and evaluation system and practice throughout the basic and secondary
education system; (iii) School-based innovations through promoting and supporting school-level initiatives
and innovate ideas leading to improving the quality of the teaching / learning process; (iv) Provision of
educational materials, other than textbooks, library books audio-visual aids, and consumables to schools on
regular basis; and (v) Technical / Vocational Education and Training (TVET) programs to make TVET
more cost-effective and responsive to the labor market needs.

B.       Institutional Development through: (i) Enhancing the capacity and quality of the LRCs; (ii) Future
improvement of the capacity for production and distribution of textbooks and teachers guides; (iii)
Strengthening the General Directorate for Examinations and Evaluations through reforming the GSSCE
feedback systems; (iv) Improving EMIS capacity and expanding it to regional directorates;                 (v)
Institutionalizing the National Assessment program at the NCHRD while enhancing its capacity for
planning and research. (vi) Project management through ensuring allocations of funds, monitoring
implementation and compliance with agreed procurement procedures.

C.       Improving the Teaching and Learning Facilities through (i) developing rationalized civil works (ii)
rehabilitation of dilapidated buildings; (iii) and reorganization of the General Directorate for Projects and
School Buildings.

Clarity and Relevance of Objectives

Since both the government and the WB had developed close understanding during the implementation of the
first phase, the objectives were crystal clear to all the concerned parties. Also, the objectives were quite
realistic in the sense that they were achievable given the demonstrated implementation capacity and
cumulative practical experience of the implementers as well as of the WB as a partner gained during the
first phase of the 10-years-long reform program.

The objectives and the action plans to achieve them were designed keeping in view any foreseeable threats
and known constraints. The built-in flexibility of design and the resilience demonstrated subsequently
during the implementation stages of the project by the MOE, NCHRD and the WB are good examples of
understanding and appreciation, of the mid-stream adjustments that have to be made due to changing
constructs and /or advent of new opportunities, on the part of the concerned parties. This also reflects the
confidence of the WB in the judgment and integrity of the implementing agency.


                                                     - 22 -

On the whole, the implementing agency and the beneficiaries seem to be quite satisfied with the importance,
relevance and clarity of the project objectives and most of the implemented action plans.

Implementation and Achievement of Objectives of Each Component

Despite the initial delays of over one year in starting the TVET subcomponent of the project due to
prolonged negotiations with the OECF (later on Japanese Bank for International Cooperation) "JBIC", and
restructuring of the General Directorate of Projects and School Buildings at the MOE the implementation
of most projects of the other components went on reasonably well and subsequently tried to make up for the
late start. It was agreed between the GOJ and the OECF/JBIC that Japanese financing will apply to only
the Technical /Vocational Education and Training component of the reform project.

Component-wise Implementation

A.       Deepening the Qualitative Impact of the Reform.

         Staff Development

         Most quality improvement related programs containing many subprojects were largely funded and
         supported by grants from donors which included: DFID, CIDA, and EU. Donor agencies have their
         own regulations, procedures and conditions for implementation of programs and projects financed
         by them.

         The implementation capacity of the MOE fortified with adequate varied experience of the staff
         aided in some cases by external experts saw through successful implementation of nearly all the
         quality capacity-building programs (mainly various types of training).
         Quantitatively, in terms of numbers of different cadres trained in different kinds of training as
         shown in the following table most targets have (with one exception) been fully achieved while in
         some training programs targets have been literally over achieved.

         Table 1: Achievement of Training Targets

                    Training Program                         Target No.   Actual No. Trained
1. In-service teaches trg.                                     16,500            15,000
2. Enrichment and specialized trg.                             27,200            25,000
3. Training of trainers                                          925             2,800
4. Educational administrators trg.                              1,350            3,220
5. Training of school principals and assistant principals       2,000            7,000

In-service training being a continuous process is an institutionalized function of the General Directorate of
Training at the MOE. The focus of the donor financed training activities have been on up-grading and
expanding the training capacity by training groups of master trainers, back-stoppers and trainers in various
types of training. In addition to focusing on innovative methods and training skills development training
programs have also covered such vital areas of training as preparing and development of appropriate
training packages and materials as well as supervising, monitoring and evaluating training programs and
training activities.




                                                    - 23 -

Qualitative Improvement is not so amenable to visible demonstration, one can perceive, however, that
cumulative experience-based consistent effort of the training authorities has resulted in improvement of
both physical and qualitative aspects of the successive training programs designed and implemented by the
MOE.

Over and above exceeding the quantitative targets in most programs, conducting training needs analysis
and decentralization of training activities to regional directorates have been gaining favor with the central
authorities.

The spiral process of feedback from the experience and lessons learned from the implementation of each
activity leading to improvement of successive training activities has been ingrained in the whole training
process.

Impact

Regarding impact of the staff development programs and activities, several studies have been conducted to
assess and evaluate the impact of in-service teacher training and university teacher qualification up-grading
programs, the largest and perhaps the longest on-going in- service training programs.

In this respect conclusions of the last impact evaluation study of the two teachers' training programs and
the meta-review of the 15 previous studies concur on the findings that the in-service training programs
contributed significantly to the improvement of teaching practice in several areas while, on the other hand,
the study surfaced several serious weaknesses in the training.

Curricula and Textbooks

New curricula and textbooks at both primary and secondary levels are proving effective tools of
teaching/learning. They are designed for students to develop new concepts from their experience with
objects, phenomena, and known concepts found in their environmental surroundings. They provide ample
opportunities for practical applications of the acquired knowledge and concepts in their daily life situations.
Moreover, all the textbooks, and teacher guides are structured such that present variety of graded content
matter to cater for the individual differences among the students.

Despite the improved quality and many attractive features, the textbooks still remained rather traditional in
the sense that they are overloaded with information content while they remain shy to offer sufficient
opportunities for students to manipulate and to generate new knowledge.

Examinations, Tests and Evaluation

The examination reform and assessment project has made impressive achievement in the field of national
capacity building and establishing a modern state-of-the-art diagnostic, formative, and summative testing
assessment and evaluation system housed in its own newly constructed building. The MOE is planning to
make the national examination and evaluation centre and autonomous body.

The analysis of GSSCE tests shows marked improvement in the quality of tests. There is clear emphasis
on testing higher order cognitive skills, problem solving, synthesizing of knowledge from different sources
and applying it to new situations, and testing for innovative and creative applications.




                                                     - 24 -

There is a trend to use both closed-form and open-ended questions. The progress in diagnostic testing has,
however, remained rather slow.

Teacher Training

There was noticeable improvement in the pedagogical practices, of the graduates of both the preservice
and inservice teacher education programs, particularly in the areas of academic content, instructional
planning, student evaluation and professional development of the teachers. The field teacher education
program, nevertheless, remained rather ineffective in equipping the education students with sufficient
relevant academic content and modern instructional methods and effective teaching skills.

Both, pre-service and in-service training programs offered by the universities and the MOE need to
develop a clear vision and well-defined objectives shared by all the stakeholders.

Educational Administration

The reform has created a significant impact on the administration practices of the school principals,
especially in the areas of organization, planning, monitoring and evaluation. While reform has improved
the administrative behavior and managerial skills of the school principals, it could not instill a sense of
ownership of reform at the school level largely because of the fact that school was neither an initiator nor
an active participant in the creation and implementation of the reform plan. Future reform planning should
focus on school and community as the grassroots and grounding unit of educational reform activities.

ICDL training program

This training aimed to develop basic ICT knowledge and practical skills in all the MOE teachers in order to
enable them to use ICT as a central strategy in the teaching/learning processes at a wider scale. The first
training project financed by WB provided a valuable learning experience for all the concerned parties. In
all 1951 teachers took the training of which 1,219 passed the certification examination.

Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET)

The TVET subcomponent had three major objectives: (i) Enhancing its relevance to market economy; (ii)
Promoting effective management system; (iii) and ensuring quality improvement.

TVET subcomponent was co-financed by OECF/JIBC, WB and CIDA. OECF/JIBC and WB have
financed the construction, equipment and furnishing part while CIDA has funded the Technical Assistance
part of the subproject.

Since the OECF/ JIBC projects have started a year late, they are scheduled to be completed by November
2003** An official request was submitted for extending the closing date to November 2004, a response is being
awaited..

The progress rate, so far, is 71%. The qualitative impact of the projects while under implementation
cannot be evaluated at this stage.

While the Technical/Vocational education and training sub-sector has been pressed for some time to
undergo a radical overhaul of the whole system focusing on the TVET proved a wise strategic policy
decision. The overall experience of various projects co-financed by different donors and implemented by
different agencies (Balqa Applied University, Ministry of Education and Vocational Training Corporation)
has been rich and rewarding for both the implementing and financing agencies as well as for other
stakeholders and beneficiaries.




                                                   - 25 -

The combined impact of all the projects in this sub-sector has been impressive. To develop a future vision
of the TVET and to sell it to the stake holders was a formidable task, and then to design strategies and
action plans as well as the legislative framework to realize the vision and making the stakeholders accept
them was nearly miraculous. Looking back at the uphill track covered by the project we can say with a
degree of relief and satisfaction that TVET subsector has been put on solid foundation. During the past six
years it has taken a determined turn to the right direction and set on a clear path of reform. A lot, however,
remains to be done.

Again, the lessons learned from the rich and varied experience have served well in the formulation of the
next set of projects designed to further build up what has been achieved so far by the previous projects.

Project outcomes and impact naturally varied across authorities responsible for different types and levels of
TVET. The EDTSP outcomes, for instance, were felt to be strongest at the Balqa University, NCHRD
and the community college levels, acceptable at the VTC and minimal in the case of the Comprehensive
Vocational Education system at the MOE. On the whole EDTSP is clearly seen as the lynchpin and key
driver of the systemic reform of the TVET subsector.

To sum up, it has been viewed as a major success and a catalyst for the subsector reform. The iterative
and flexible approach to planning and management encouraged by CIDA proved very effective and was
appreciated by the Government and the implementing agencies.

To ensure the sustainability of the outcomes achieved by the EDTSP another project has been launched
under the name "Sustaining and Extending Technical and Vocational Education and Training (SETVET)
Project".

B. Institutional Development

Institutional Development was envisaged through: (i) Upgrading and expanding the LRCs; (ii) Improving
the capacity for production, publishing distribution, trialling and evaluation of the textbooks and teacher
guides; (iii) Reforming and modernizing student assessment and evaluation system; (iv) Enhancing the
NCHRD's research and development capacity through institutionalizing the national sample-based studies;
and (v) Ensuring project management in compliance with the agreed upon criteria and procedures of
appraisal, approval and monitoring.

Various projects designed to translate policy measures to achieve the planned objectives and targets were
satisfactorily implemented without any serious obstacles. On the whole, the implementation process went
smoothly requiring some minor adjustments in a few cases which were efficiently handled due to WB's
flexible approach to accommodate the changes in the implementation conditions and assumptions in the
interest of the achievement of the goal of the whole project.

LRC's capacity has been substantially enhanced and they are discharging extended responsibility in several
new areas of training including providing ICT related training of the trainers and increased integration of
ICT in the curricula and routine teaching/learning activities in the classrooms. Furthermore,             the
certification of LRCs as ICDL training centers is currently underway.

Warehousing facilities are fully operational, production, distribution and trialling evaluation feedback
mechanisms have been speeded up and have become more efficient and effective.                  The GDCT's
computerization has substantially upgraded and improved the directorates capacity to produce timely, high
quality textbooks and other published teaching/learning materials.




                                                     - 26 -

One indicator of the impact outcome is that the GDCT has planned to upgrade the curricula to integrate
and emphasize the role of e-learning as a powerful tool of self-learning. To this effect, encouraged by the
successful outcome of this project the MOE in collaboration with JICA starting with developing e-learning
packages of two units of Grade 11 physics has extended the project to developing 17 units.

The examination, assessment and evaluation system has made very good progress in terms of building up
local expertise in preparing and developing modern state-of-the-art diagnostic and achievement tests for
selected subjects and grades including the GSSCE examination. The outcome is speeded high quality
administrative and feedback systems for GSSCE.

The directorate is housed in its own newly constructed building and the MOE has created an autonomous,
entity, The National Center for Examination and Evaluation, the statutory mandate for that has been
finalized and awaits only the Cabinet approval.

The Statistical Management Information System geared to provide timely, accurate and reliable data for
informed decision-making has been computerized and data entry process has been decentralized to the
regional directorates and regional staff has been adequately trained for the job. Nevertheless, the system is
not yet fully operational.     The major drawback stems from the fact that the concept of "Education
Management Information" has been grossly down graded to "Statistical Management" from which the
essence of "informed decision-making" is totally absent.

The MOE is going ahead with the School Mapping project for which the NCHRD contracted a consultant
to prepare the project under the Education Reform Knowledge Economy (ERTKE) who prepared and
installed the required school mapping software and trained the staff to meet the prerequisites for the
ERTKE.

NCHRD in collaboration with the MOE has successfully implemented TIMSS-R international Math and
Science achievement study which has yielded a rich mine of information of high quality and initiated
nation-wide forum for discussion of the key achievement-related issues of the education system. Further
strengthened by the successful and satisfying implementation experience of the sample-based national and
international studies the NCHRD and the MOE are preparing to participate in the next TIMSS
international study in 2003.

The project management staff at the NCHRD is fully conversant with all the appraisal, implementation and
monitoring evaluation procedures and the cooperation between the MOE and NCHRD has been almost
exemplary.

C. Teaching/Learning Facilities Improvement

Facilities improvement projects mainly comprised civil works, maintenance program, construction and
expansion of existing schools and equipment of the new of constructions. Under this component 66 new
schools were constructed, 134 existing buildings were extended, 600 schools were rehabilitated, 234
sanitary units were added, and all the new constructions and extensions were equipped and furnished. With
all this accomplishment there is one school which remains unfinished due to the fault of the contractor.
This is expected to be finished by May 2003 at the MOE's expense for the remaining payment.

School Buildings construction and rehabilitation program has generally achieved its objectives of
improving the educational environment by providing better school facilities and equipment; accommodating
increasing numbers of students; and decreasing the numbers of rented schools and double-shift schools.
Since the school construction has taken place in view of the future demand, in some places the new
facilities are under utilized.



                                                    - 27 -

The HRDSIL II was seamless continuation of the HRDSIL I project. Naturally, the Project objectives were
consistent with the sector development needs, well-planned strategies and set priorities of the Government
because they stemmed from the practical experience accrued, and valuable lessons learned from the
execution of the HRDSIL I project. While the overall goal was further intensification of the same goal
through realizing the objectives of the three components, the objectives of each subcomponent or subproject
within each component were, largely, prerequisites to be acquired or stages to be covered, or facilities and
materials to be provided or knowledge, skills and competencies to be developed.

Major factors affecting implementation and outcomes

While national commitment, project priority, allocation of resources, implementation capacity enhanced
by accrued experience of the previous project implementation and lessons learned were all favourable
factors, there were some minor hiccups that created temporary stumbling blocks in the way of smooth
implementation of a few subprojects.

*       To start with initial delays occurred in the commencement of certain construction projects mainly
        because of prolonged negotiations between the OECF/JIBC and the Government. Despite the late
        start by more than a year of some projects,         the implementation subsequently,       progressed
        reasonably well and tried to make up for the lost time. Certain changes and adjustments, however,
        had to be made which had some minor side effects. They include three successive extensions of the
        loan period; the first extended the time to June 30, 2001, the second to June 30, 2002; and the
        third to December 31, 2002. The last extension was mainly to complete the construction of some
        of the schools and the computerization of 131 schools. This may have been a blessing in disguise in
        being instrumental to the design and implementation of the Interim Technology Plan within the life
        span of the project.

*       Reorganization of the General Directorate of Projects at the MOE occurred during the same
        period. This entailed shifting of certain well-established functions, transfer of certain experienced
        managers and redistribution of responsibilities. Unfamiliarity of the new managers with the project
        preparation, appraisal, approval and implementation procedures according to previously agreed
        standard regulations and procedures, caused some difficulties and in some cases unavoidable delay
        or even cancellations of certain activities. The staff in due course of time, however, caught up
        with the regulatory machinery and required procedures and the project implementation was rerailed
        on a smooth track.

*       At times, however, certain easily avoidable obstacles occur due to less than optimal information
        sharing and coordination among different directorates and divisions within the same general
        directorate. For instance, awarding civil works contract for some schools without prior approval
        of the Intermediary resulted in exceeding the amount allocated for the civil works category and
        consequently delayed the implementation of the remaining schools in the same subproject. The
        MOE,      in this regards is taking active steps to improve the efficiency,        effectiveness and
        transparency of the channels of internal communication. A lot more, nevertheless, needs to be
        done in the sphere of information flow, transparency and accountability of which the MOE is fully
        aware and efforts are in place to improve the situation.

*       The LRC equipment and supply of educational materials (other than textbooks) to schools
        subcomponents of the related projects were delayed and subsequently cancelled largely due to
        problems related to specifications of the materials. Even after re-specification of the materials by
        technical specification committees, the specification standards could not be met by any of the




                                                    - 28 -

         bidding firms on ICB bidding. Consequently, the LRC and schools remain deprived of the essential
         equipment and material supplies. This should not have happened had the specification teams done
         their homework by studying what materials are actually relevant to the school curricula and are
         available in the market. Also, the WB experience with similar situations in other countries or other
         projects in the same country can provide useful advice including practical assistance in such
         matters.

*        One way to look at the overall efficiency of program implementation completion could be the
         proper and timely utilization of all the allocated resources. To the extent allocated resources are
         not properly utilized reflects the bottlenecks in the implementation system and specific procedures
         for which both the Government and the WB share responsibility. The US$2,562,538 so called
         "loan savings" and US$ 310,000 at risk are clear indications of implementation weaknesses and
         inefficiency rather than efficiency.

Cooperation Among Donors, WB and the Government

All said and done, the understanding and cooperation between the Government and the WB is deep rooted.
It has matured on the strength of mutual understanding of the country situation and WB policy over the
years of successful implementation of successive projects. The cooperation with other donor agencies and
functional relationship between other donors and the WB have been smooth and supportive, nearly ideal.
The components of the program and projects cofinanced by different donors have been largely
complementary rather than overlapping.           Since all the projects within the program are mutually
interdependent, their preparation, and implementation efficiency owe their success to the mutual
appreciation and harmonious working relations among various implementation and donor agencies.

Lessons Learned

         The following, are some major lessons learned from the implementation experience which should
guide the future reform planning and project design and implementation processes and activities.

1.       In order to avoid complications in different components of the sectoral projects become effective at
the same time it is critical for the Government to ensure the conclusion of agreements with different
bilateral/ multilateral cofinancing agencies before the commencement date of the whole project.

2.       Successful implementation of this project in which flexibility of approach has played an important
part, further strengthens our belief that being responsive to unavoidable changes and making necessary
adjustments in the interest of achieving the main goal is as critical as flexibility in design, implementation
approach and reallocation of resources as and when necessary to insure achievement of desired outcomes.

3.       The role of ownership cannot be overemphasized. For successful implementation and sustainable
outcomes of a project it is paramount to enlist the involvement of and create a sense of ownership of the
project and its activities among all the stakeholders from the Government down to the grassroots, school
and the community.

4.       Among piecemeal implementation, whole project implementation and horizontal and vertical
piloted incremental expansion approaches, the last one has been found to be more efficient, effective and
efficacious. It insures the effective utilization of the experience gained and lessons learned at each step for
the improvement of the project activities and their implementation at each successive stage of expansion.
Apparently, this approach is logical appealing and most cost-effective and proficient in the long run.




                                                      - 29 -

5.       The MOE, in future, would be better off to take recourse to participatory educational planning in
which all stakeholders and interest groups have a say and opportunity to safeguard their legitimate
interests. To insure the success and sustainability of reform, active participation and genuine involvement
of the school and the community should be proactively sought and enlisted. School and community should
be the epicenter of the reform process rather than a passive recipient of its ripple effect.

6.       The teacher training programs, especially the field teacher training program at the universities
need to be reformed while improving the overall quality of all teacher education programs.

7.       The Government should promote the involvement of the private universities in teacher education
programs.

8.       School buildings would provide more teaching/learning friendly climate (both physical and
psychological) if the buildings are designed taking into account the local topographical, geographical,
environmental and social factors. This requires adopting a policy of flexible, varied, innovative school
building designs over the current outdated stereotyped uniform standard school-building models.

9.       When it comes to construction of schools, preference needs to be given to extending the existing
school buildings wherever feasible over constructing new schools.

10.      It is right time for the curricula, textbooks, and pedagogical reform programs to integrate
e-learning and ICT with a high profile in all future planning and design of such programs.

11.      While TVET subcomponent has achieved a measure of success in revamping the organizational
structure of the post-secondary vocational education, making it relevant to the labour market needs still
remains a far cry. Further reform programs should address the pertinence and relevance issues more
emphatically lest the persistent gap between knowledge and skills needed by the labour market and those
acquired by TVET graduates should undermine the reform effort.

12.      Eventhough the Technical Assistance part of the budget was reallocated to other projects with good
intent, it is felt that Technical Assistance is critical to the quality of training programs. This is because
local experts as well as the trainees benefit a great deal more from the state-of-the-art training techniques
and knowledge and skills of the world experts and have an opportunity to interact with them directly.

13.      Finally, the WB teams need to pay more attention to qualitative aspects of the projects over and
above their concern with expenditures and quantitative targets.

14.      When it comes to quality improvement, formative feedback and impact evaluation or even project
appraisal independent external evaluation provides value added and there is no effective alternative to
evaluation.

(b) Cofinanciers:

The co-financers (OECF/JBIC, CIDA, OPEC, DFID, and EU) were contacted to obtain their
implementation experience and evaluation of the project for the ICR. Immediately prior to the finalisation
of the ICR the Bank had received the Project Completion Reports from the CIDA and EU (see attached
letters). JBIC's component is not completed and it was confirmed that there was no evaluation report that
could be shared with the Bank at the time the ICR was prepared. The Bank did not received any response
from OPEC and DFID.




                                                     - 30 -

- 31 -

- 32 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

         Two reviews were undertaken to evaluate the outcome of Component 3 (Improving the Facilities
for Teaching and Learning). A project sponsored review assessed: (i) engineering and technical aspects; (ii)
the management and educational process; and (iii) the utilization of school facilities. The Bank also
commissioned a review of constructed schools and related facilities which assessed:            (i) design and
technical aspects of the component; and (ii) the utilization of school facilities. A summary of the findings
from the reviews is as follows:

       Design, Engineering and Technical
(i)    Classrooms in all schools were large enough for their intended purpose and windows provided
       suitable light and ventilation.
(ii)   Adequate toilet facilities were available in all schools for students and staff.
(iii) Building finish, particularly doors, painting, and blackboards were below expected standards.
(iv)   Educational facilities such as libraries, laboratories, and workshops were adequate and suitable.
(v)    There was little consistency between the old buildings and the newly built classrooms and facilities.
       This will affect the utilization of the additions.
(vi)   School administration played a minor role in defining the nature, area, and site of the expanded
       facilities.
(vii) Most schools were built on small lots of land, so courtyards and playing fields were rare.
(viii) Some of the new schools were built in the courtyards of old schools resulting in overcrowding.
(ix)   Some schools were built on inadequate lots. This often resulted in remaining areas being of size or
       shape that could not be exploited. Insufficient consideration was given to the topography and shape
       of existing land and buildings.
(x)    Adequate cement walls surround most schools but these walls were found to be expensive.
(xi)   Some of the new additions lacked water and sewerage systems while others lacked sufficient power.
(xii) Many new schools were accepted from the contractors despite shortcomings and problems.

       Management and Educational Process
(i)    There were no serious problems between management and teachers.
(ii)   In almost all schools visited, there were good relations between schools and the local community.

       Utilization of School Facilities
(i)    The efficiency of utilization of facilities depended on design, the availability of supervisors and on
       school management.
(ii)   Needs evaluation of schools was poor. For instance there was a shortage of computers in computer
       laboratories and many were out of date and few laboratories had full time supervisors.
(iii) Utilization of theaters in schools was low but they are also used for public meetings and other
       functions.
(iv)   Some schools that were built for girls were used for boys and vice versa. Similarly, some schools
       that were designed as basic schools were used as secondary schools. This created problems
       particularly with respect to laboratories and workshops.
(v)    Greater utilization of new buildings could have been achieved if planning had been more efficient and
       school requirements and construction times had been evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
(vi)   There is a need for more coordination between regional directorates and various MOE authorities.
       Some equipment was sent to schools and then withdrawn for no apparent reason.



                                                       - 33 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                                        Annex 1
                                          Key Performance Indicators
                   Second Human Resources Development Sector Investment Project


Component/              Objective                     Target                 Actual                 Comments
sub-component

Deepening the
qualitative
impact of the
reform

              Training principals and     400 academic principals      4500 academic        Training numbers for
              assistants for              1,000 assistant principals   principals trained   academic principals, voc.
              administrative leadership. 100 vocational principals     2500 assistant       principals and voc.
                                          500 vocational coordinators  principals trained   coordinators combined

              Training educational        250 administrators           2000 admin. people
              administrators and                                       trained
              counselors so they can      1,100 educational counselors

              support reform program                                   1220 counselors
                                                                       trained

Sub-component Staff development and                                    15000 academic and Because of curriculum
1             in-service teacher training 16,500 academic and
              in CDTP and enhance         vocational secondary teachersvocational secondary changes primary teachers
                                                                       teachers trained     needed to be trained in
Staff         teaching competence                                      25000 teachers       addition to planned
Development
              Developing and              27,000 teachers trained      trained              secondary teachers

              implementing teacher
              enrichment and
              specialization program

              Staff development- training                              240 teachers and 60

              the trainers to improve     75 central trainers trained  supervisors trained

              capacity of central and     850 field trainers trained   2,500 trained

              field trainers

              Teacher and staff training
              on basic computer skills                                 1,219 teachers       Activity added during

              and applications up to the                               passed exams         project implementation

              level of ICDL Certificate.

              Aligning the GSSCE with Tables of specifications for     Implemented          First phase implemented
              new curricula               all subjects in GSSCE                             1995-1998, extension

                                          Sample student and teacher                        phase implemented

Sub-component                             tests                                             1999-2002.

2
              Developing classroom        Trained supervisors and
GSSCE Reform based diagnostic tests for   teachers who can develop
              remedial interventions to   tests
              sensitise teachers to                                    Implemented          Implemented

              diagnostic methodology      Produce diagnostic tools and

              and remedial interventions  tests




                                                          - 34 -

Component/                Objective                     Target                    Actual               Comments
sub-component

                Pilot school based
Sub-component   innovation program to
3               promote creativity, improve Evaluation of program          Implemented         Sub-component financed
School-based    motivation, and increase     success                                           61 sub-proposals
Innovations     education efficiency


                Technical and vocational
                education and training in
                unspecified sub-programs                                                       Program changed

                approved during project                                                        significantly from SAR

                implementation using                                                           design. Two major
Sub-component                                Satisfactory evaluations for  Implemented
                established criteria. The                                                      sub-projects implemented:
4                                            each sub-program
                objectives of the program                                                      (i) Metal Industries
                                                                                               Institute; and (ii) Mazar
TVET            are to: (i) enhance the
                relevance to the market                                                        Training Center

                economy; (ii) an effective                                                     Other sub-projects
                TVET system; and (iii)                                                         financed by JBIC/OECF
                quality improvements in                                                        are under implementation.
                teaching and equipment.

                                                                                               (i) Contract for laboratory
                                                                                               equipment in place; (ii)
Sub-component   Resources to provide initial Provision of materials to 529 Partially completed package for instruction
5               materials to schools to      schools in remote areas                           materials cancelled as no
                ensure schools have                                                            longer required;
Instructional   minimum requirements
Materials                                                                                      (iii) contract for textbooks
                                                                                               cancelled due to time
                                                                                               limitations to implement
                                                                                               within the life of the
                                                                                               project.

Institutional
Development

Sub-component Enhance the capacity of        Upgrade 6 functioning LRC     1 upgraded and      Due to delays in
1               LRC and upgrade                                            expanded (Karak)    implementation of Phase
                education effectiveness by   Assessment of role and                            A, Phase B cancelled and
Learning        proving a vehicle for the    effectiveness                 2 established       funds reallocated to Phase
resource centersdissemination of             Establish 2 more LRC          (Balqa & Amman)     A.
                information                                                                    Contract in place for
                                                                                               supply of computers only-
                                                                                               no contract for the rest of
                                                                                               the equipment.




                                                            - 35 -

Component/                Objective                    Target                Actual           Comments
sub-component

                Computerization of         Functional computerized      Implemented   Warehouses in Amman,
                publishing and educational operations at GDCET of                     Zarka, and Irbid are
                operations of GDCET and adequate capacity to meet                     operational
                staff training             HRDSIL II output targets                   Trialling and evaluation
Sub-component   Textbook publishing to     Textbook output                            mechanisms are
2               meet HRDSIL II targets                                                operational

Textbook        Trialling and evaluation   Successful implementation of               Computerization of DG CT
publishing and  methodology for textbooks developed procedures and                    implemented
distribution    and staff upgrade          trained staff

                Professional distribution  Established and operational
                network and procedures for distribution network for
                GDCET book and software GDCET output

                Strengthening the          Computer and systems         Completed     No evaluation undertaken
                administrative and         successfully installed
Sub-component   feedback systems by
3               introducing                Staff trained in technical
Strengthen      computerization and        operation
GDEE            needed facilities and
                equipment and training     Feedback system in place
                staff

Sub-component Strengthen capacity of       Hardware and software        Implemented   Hardware and software
4               NCERD and MOE staff to installed                                      installed and training
                manage a EMIS                                                         undertaken
Planning                                   Staff trained
research and
development     Computerize International                               Implemented   Activity added during
and computerize Projects section of MOE                                               implementation
International
Projects Section

Sub-component Establish and maintain an Instruments designed and        Implemented
5               institutional system for   printed
                national assessment of the
NCERD sample    attainment of learning     Administrative tests started
based national  outcomes in basic learning Reports disseminated
assessment of
learning
achievement




                                                           - 36 -

Component/             Objective                       Target                    Actual                Comments
sub-component

              School construction and      Extend capacity of existing    - 42,200 places
              expansion to maximize cost schools by adding about          created in 1207
              efficiency of new            30,000 places                  classrooms in 66
              construction                 Replace dilapidated prefab     new schools

                                           schools of 9,120 places        - 719 classrooms

                                           Reduce double shifting in      built in 134 existing

                                           existing schools by 5,000      schools

                                           places                         - 43 laboratories, 36
                                           Reduce rented and inadequate workshops,     45

                                           buildings by 23,000 places     libraries, & 45 halls
                                                                          built in existing
                                           Increase number of student     schools
Sub-component                              places by 37,000 places
5                                                                         - No. students in
                                                                          double shift schools

NCERD sample                                                              increased from

based National                                                            116,000 in 1991 to

Assessment of                                                             153,000 in 2002

Learning                                                                  - No. of students in
Achievement                                                               rented schools
                                                                          decreased from
                                                                          329,000 in 1991 to
                                                                          110,000 in 2002

              Provide new, expanded,       Schools noted above fitted out Implemented
              and existing schools with    with adequate furniture and
              necessary equipment and      equipment
              furniture

              Improve the maintenance      Operative school maintenance                        Activity deleted from
              of school facilities and     system                                              project
              strengthen the institutional
              capacity to maintain         Trained HQ and district
              schools                      engineers top assess
                                           maintenance needs and
                                           supervise contracts

              Bring facilities at existing Structural repairs to 843      600 school buildings Target partially achieved.
              schools to acceptable level schools                         rehabilitated        Works not achieved moved
              and develop capacity for                                                         to the third project
              identifying schools needing New sanitary facilities to 285 234 sanitary units    currently under
              rehabilitation and           schools                        installed in old     preparation.
              implementing                                                schools
              rehabilitation program       Implemented prioritized
                                           rehabilitation program

              Establish computer           Laboratories in 131 schools    Partially completed Activity added during
              laboratories                 and trained personnel                               project implementation




                                                          - 37 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Deepening the Qualitative Impact of the Reform               36.94          76.41          206.85
Institutional Development                                    11.54            8.74          75.74
Improving the Facilities for Teaching and Learning          106.15          98.12           92.44

Total Baseline Cost                                         154.63         183.27
 Physical Contingencies                                      11.84
 Price Contingencies                                         20.19
                          Total Project Costs               186.66         183.27
                   Total Financing Required                 186.66         183.27



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            25.26           55.18         0.00         42.10       122.54
                                   (18.31)          (0.54)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (38.85)
2. Goods                            15.29           11.46         0.60         17.90       45.25
                                    (6.12)          (9.57)      (0.50)         (0.00)     (16.19)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          3.62         3.77         7.39
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.45)         (0.00)      (3.45)
4. Textbook publishing              0.00            2.80          0.00         0.00         2.80
                                    (0.00)          (1.51)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (1.51)
5. Local Training                   0.00            0.00          0.00         3.02         3.02
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Workshops/fees                   0.00            0.00          0.00         2.38         2.38
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
7. Maintenance - civil works        0.00            0.00          0.00         1.95         1.95
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
8. Maintenance - equipment          0.00            0.00          0.00         1.33         1.33
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                            40.55           69.44         4.22         72.45       186.66
                                   (24.43)         (31.62)      (3.95)         (0.00)     (60.00)




                                                 - 38 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               7.68              69.18              0.05             43.34            120.25
                                      (3.84)            (34.50)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (38.34)
2. Goods                               14.74              3.60              0.24             24.26            42.84
                                      (13.17)            (3.13)            (0.22)            (0.00)           (16.52)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              0.83             3.90              4.73
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.79)            (0.00)           (0.79)
4. Textbook publishing                 0.00               2.58              0.00             0.00              2.58
                                      (0.00)             (1.29)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.29)
5. Local Training                      0.00               0.00              0.00             8.17              8.17
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Workshops/fees                      0.00               0.00              0.00             4.70              4.70
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
7. Maintenance - civil works           0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
8. Maintenance - equipment             0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               22.42             75.36              1.12             84.37            183.27
                                      (17.01)           (38.92)            (1.01)            (0.00)           (56.94)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Category (in US$ million equivalent)

          Category              Appraisal Estimates     Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of Appraisal

                                 Bank    Govt.    CoF.     Bank    Govt.     CoF.    Bank    Govt.      CoF.
Civil works                     38.85    41.59   42.10    38.34    48.26    33.65   98.69   116.04     79.93
Equipment/furniture             16.19    11.16   17.90    16.52     2.07    24.25 102.04     18.55    135.47
Technical                         3.45    3.92     0.00    0.79     0.04     3.90   22.90     1.10
Textbook publishing               1.51    1.29     0.00    1.29     1.29     0.00   85.43   100.00
Local training                    0.00    3.02     0.00    0.00     2.27     5.90
Workshop/fees                     0.00    2.38     0.00    0.00     0.00     4.70
Maintenance  civil works         0.00    1.95     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Maintenance  equipment           0.00    1.33     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
                       Total    60.00    66.64   60.00    56.94    53.93    72.40

Notes: Project financing by component is not available




                                                      - 39 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


A financial and economic analysis was not prepared for the ICR.




                                                 - 40 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                         (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 (i)  Identification; (ii) Initial
 Preparation; (iii) Preparation;
 (iv) Pre-appraisal

              08/1993
                                            5    Mission Leader/Sr. General
                                                 Educator (1), Education
                                                 Specialists (2), Architect (1),
                                                 Economist (1)
              11/1993                       4    Mission Leader (1), Principal
                                                 Operations Officer (1), General
                                                 Education Specialist/Consultant
                                                 (1), Vocational Education
                                                 Specialist/Consultant (1)
              03/1994                       7    Mission Leader/Sr. General
                                                 Educator (1), Sr. Policy Advisor
                                                 (1), HR Specialist (1), Evaluation
                                                 and Assessment Specialist (1),
                                                 Development of Curricula and
                                                 Textbooks Specialists (2), Civil
                                                 Engineer (1)
              07/1994                       7    Mission Leader/Sr. General
                                                 Educator (1), Economist (1),
                                                 Human Resources Specialist (1),
                                                 Civil Engineer (1), Education
                                                 Specialist/Consultant (1),
                                                 Textbook Development
                                                 Specialist/Consultant (1),
                                                 Operations Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/1994                       7    Mission Leader/Sr. General
                                                 Educator (1), Human
                                                 Resources Specialist (1),
                                                 Civil Engineer (1),
                                                 Education Specialist (1),
                                                 Textbook Development
                                                 Specialists (2), Operations
                                                 Specialist (1)
              02/1995                       5    Negotiations Leader/Sr. General
                                                 Educator (1), Human Resources
                                                 Specialist (1), Sr. Counsel (1),
                                                 Sr. Procurement Adviser (1), Sr.
                                                 Disbursement Officer (1)




                                                  - 41 -

Supervision
           12/1995    3 Sr. General Educator (1), Sr.      S    S
                        Education Specialist (1),
                        Operations Officer (1)
           07/1996    1 Operations Officer (1)             S    S
           01/1997    2 Operations Officer (1), Sr.        S    S
                        General Education Specialist (1)
           05/1997    2 Operations Officer (1), Sr.        S    S
                        General Education Specialist (1)
           11/1997    3 Task Team Leader (1),              S    S
                        Operations Officer (1), Sr.
                        General Education Specialist (1)
           06/1998    2 Task Team Leader (1), Sr.          S    S
                        Education Specialist (1)
           11/1998    5 Task Manager/Economist (1),        S    S
                        Operations Analyst (1), Sr.
                        Educator/Consultant (1),
                        Operations Officer/Consultant
                        (1), Financial Management
                        Specialist/Consultant (1)
           05/1999    2 Task Team Leader (1), Education    S    S
                        Specialist/Consultant (1)
           10/1999    3 Task Team Leader (1), Education    S    S
                        Specialist/Consultant (1), Sr.
                        Information Officer (1)
           05/2000    3 Task Tam Leader (1), Financial     S    S
                        Management Specialist (1),
                        Procurement Specialist (1)
           06/2000    3 Task Tam Leader (1), Financial     S    S
                        Management Specialist (1),
                        Procurement Specialist (1)
           07/2000    3 Task Tam Leader (1), Financial     S    S
                        Management Specialist (1),
                        Procurement Specialist (1)
           01/2001    3 Task Team Leader (1), Financial    S    S
                        Management Specialist (1),
                        Procurement Specialist (1)
           09/2001    4 Task Team Leader (1), Financial    S    S
                        Management Specialist (1),
                        Procurement Specialist (1),
                        Education Specialist/Consultant
                        (1)
           04/2002    6 Task Team Leader (1), General      S    S
                        Education Consultant (1),
                        Financial Management Specialist
                        (1), Procurement
                        Officer/Consultant (1),
                        Information Officer (1), Program
                        Assistant (1)
           10/2002    6 Task Team Leader (1), General      S    S
                        Education Consultant (1),
                        Information Officer (1),



                        - 42 -

                                                 Financial Management Specialist
                                                 (1), Procurement
                                                 Officer/Consultant (1), Program
                                                 Assistant (1)

 ICR
               10/2002                      4     Task Team Leader (1),
                                                  Development Consultant
                                                  (1), General Education
                                                  Consultant (1), Program
                                                  Assistant (1)




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  (i)  Identification; (ii) Initial
  Preparation; (iii) Preparation;
  (iv) Pre-appraisal
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                                  - 43 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


A. Bank Staff Assessment

- Identification, initial preparation, preparation, pre-appraisal, appraisal and supervision packages
- Memorandum of the President
- Loan Agreement
- Implementation Manual
- PAD
- Prototype school building design
- Country Performance Portfolio Review (CPPR)
- FY00 Quality of Supervision Assessment
- Study of Cost Efficiency of Education Spending

B. Others

- PIU Quarterly Progress Reports
- Impact assessment studies conducted under Education Reform Program

  - Curricula and Textbooks
  - Teacher Education and Training
  - School Construction and Facilities
  - Vocational Education
  - Examinations and Assessment
  - EMIS
  - Students' Achievement/TIMSS
- An sssessment of vocational and technical education in Jordan, NCERD
- Report on the implementation of TIMSS-R Main Survey in Jordan
- National report on the performance of the Jordanian students in maths and sciences (in Arabic), 1999
- Economic and Social Development Plan (1999-2003), MOP, 1999
- Human resources indicators (in Arabic), NCHRD, 2000
- Comprehensive study on Technical and Vocational Education and Training, NCHRD




                                                      - 46 -

- 47 -

