Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21537
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28614; TF-28660)
ON A GEF GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.1 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
FOR
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
DECEMBER 20, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Romanian Leu
0.0000413 Romanian Lei = US$
US$ = 24,129 Romanian Lei
FISCAL YEAR
2001
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AR            -      Apele Romane SA
DDBR          -      Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve
DDBRA         -      Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority
DDNI          -      Danube Delta National Institute
EBRD          -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EPA           -      Environment Protection Agency
GEF           -      Global Environmental Facility
GIS           -      Geographic Information System
GOR           -      Government of Romania
IUCN          -      International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(now World Conservation Union)
MWFEP         -      Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environment Protection
NGO           -      Non Government Organization
PMU           -      Project Management Unit
QAG           -      Quality Assurance Group
CAS           -      Country Assessment Strategy
WWF           -      World Wide Fund for Nature
USAID         -      United States Agency for Intemational Development
EBRD          -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
WHO           -      World Health Organization
WWF           -      World Wildlife Fund
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew Vorkink, ECCO5
Sector Manager/Director:   John Hayward, ECSSD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Doina Rachita, ECSSD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   8
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     14
9. Partner Comments                                                                    15
10. Additional Information                                                             18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 27
Annex 8. The Perspective of Romania's GEF Operational Phase Biodiversity Project Team  28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008689                                         Project Name: ROMANIA GEF DANUBE DELTA
BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Team Leader: Doina Rachita                                  TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: December 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ROMANIA GEF DANUBE DELTA                         L/C/TF Number: TF-28614; TF-28660
BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector. VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/20/1993                                Effective: 09/25/1994          02/06/1995
Appraisal:  09/26/1993                                  MTR:  11/30/1997           05/25/1998
Approval:  08/26/1994                                Closing: 06/30/2000           06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA/MIN. OF ENVIRONMENT
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Johanes Linn, ECAVP                        Johannes Linn
Courntrv Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5                   Michael Wiehen
Sector Manager:       Marjory-Anne Bromhead,                      James T. Goering Chief, ECIAG
ECSSD
Team Leader at ICR:   Doina Rachita, ECSSD                       Marory-Anne Bromhead, ECIAG
ICR Primary Author:   Doina Rachita; John W. Fraser
Stewart; ECSSD
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitr: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the SAR, the project aimed to protect Romanian Delta ecosystems, through contributing to the
conservation of biodiversity within the Delta, strengthening the capacity of the Danube Delta Biosphere
Reserve Authority (DDBRA), and the Danube Delta National Institute (DDNI), a research institute whose
primary role is to conduct research on behalf of DDBRA. It enabled DDBRA and DDNI to monitor and
manage protected areas effectively, working with local community groups to ensure sustainable resource
use, and restore some wetlands to their natural conditions. The project was developed in association with
three related GEF supported projects being developed in the region: the Ukrainian Danube Delta
Biodiversity Project, the Danube River Basin Environment Program, and the Black Sea Management
Project.
At the time of project preparation this objective was realistic, appropriate and important, and was in line
with the 1994 CAS and 1992 Environmental Strategy Paper, which was prepared in collaboration with
GOR, USAID, USEPA, WHO and EC-PHARE. Significantly, project preparation was undertaken in
parallel with an EBRD Technical Cooperation Project supporting the establishment of the administrative
structure and legal framework for DDBRA, Romania's first administrative structure for protected area
management, and the preparation of a conservation management plan for the Danube Delta Biosphere
Reserve. Additionally, EBRD had prepared a proposal for a loan to support socio-economic development
among Delta communities based on eco-tourism, and provide water supply systems for four Delta villages.
Consequently, the original project development objective complemented the EBRD initiatives by building
capacity under the new institutional arrangements to implement the conservation management plan.
The objectives of the Romanian and Ukrainian Danube Delta Biodiversity projects were the same and the
components designed to achieve the objectives were also similar. During implementation, common lessons
leamed in the two sister projects included the need for well-planned public awareness activities early in the
project life and the need to guide sustainable use of natural resources with participation of local
communities. Contrasts between the two Danube Delta projects were mainly due to specific country
conditions, such as the existance of significant budgetary constraints in Ukraine, the existence of older and
more experienced implementing institutions in Romania, and different approaches to wetland restoration in
the two countries.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The development objective was not revised but, following the cancellation of the EBRD loan to support
socio-economic development among Delta communities, the project objective was augmented under
supervision to include working with community groups to enhance economic development that is linked
with sustainable natural resource management and biodiversity conservation objectives.
3.3 Original Comnponents:
1.    Institutional Strengthening of the Ecological Wardens Department (cost estimate at
appraisal: US$ 1.48 million), to support nature protection, surveys, public awareness and nature
interpretation in the Delta, through the provision of equipment to enhance mobility and surveying,
infrastructure and training. Overall, the design of this component was appropriate and supported
achievement of the development objective by strengthening the institutional capacity of DDBRA through:
(a) training of DDBRA warden and technical field staff; (b) providing equipment and vehicles needed for
patrolling, monitoring and guiding; (c) establishing training facilities, visitor information centers, field
stations, and (d) providing accommodation for DDBRA and DDNI staff. During implementation, the
scope of this component was expanded to take advantage of new opportunities for warden department staff
- 2 -



to work with Delta communities to establish sustainable systems for management of Delta resources.
2.    Monitoring (cost estimate at appraisal: US$ 0.64 million), through improved population and
species inventories, ecosystems surveys, and development of an integrated database using GIS technology
to provide the basis for development of resource management plans. Overall, the design of this component
was appropriate and supported achievement of the development objective through strengthening the
institutional capacity of DDNI to build on existing monitoring work by providing: (a) equipment for
research, field monitoring, analysis of data, (b) technical assistance, (c) training, and (d) publications. The
component also provided training, technical assistance and equipment to assist DDBRA to undertake its
monitoring and management functions.
3.    Pilot Polder Restoration to Natural Conditions, and Reed Restoration Research (cost estimate
at appraisal: US$ 0.575 million). This component piloted different approaches to ecological restoration
and management of Delta wetlands. Overall, the design of this component was appropriate and supported
achievement of the development objective. However, lack of clarity of ownership / use rights among
County Council, state/private enterprises and DDBRA and inadequate participation of key stakeholders in
development of the restoration plan resulted in delays in implementing the component in some target areas.
4.    Ecosystems Restoration (cost estimate at appraisal: US$ 1.18 million). This component was
intended to support wetland restoration, through protection of a lake from direct inflow of nutrient and
sediment rich Danube water; willow planting; village woodlots; pilot sturgeon propagation; protection of
fish from the lake Razim irrigation intake; removal of some deteriorating metal structures for aesthetic
enhancement; establishment of a small grants fund for research proposals with special focus on
management of buffer zones. The initial design of this component did not adequately support achievement
of project objectives and, consequently, was subject to significant redesign during project implementation.
5.    Public Awareness and Community Involvement (cost estimate at appraisal: US$ 0.155
million), including support to the DDBRA wardens department to work with schools and local
communities, support to the DDBRA in production of public awareness material, and support to local
NGOs to enable them to expand their public awareness activities. This component focused on building the
capacity of DDBRA to undertake public awareness activities, through providing: (a) training for the
warden guides; (b) technical assistance; (c) equipment and materials; and (d) establishing collaborative
arrangements with local NGOs. The initial design and scope of this component did not adequately support
project objectives and was, consequently subject to further development and expansion during
implementation.
6.    Regional Initiatives, Coordination and Management Assistance (cost estimate at appraisal:
US$ 0.19 million). Overall, the design of this component was appropriate and supported achievement of
the project objective through providing: (a) support for establishing collaboration with conservation
initiatives in the Ukrainian portion of the Danube Delta through exchange and joint training programs, and
study tours for field and technical staff, and (b) technical assistance to support procurement of major
packages during the initial stages of project implementation.
3.4 Revised Components:
1.    Institutional Strengthening the Ecological Wardens Department (final cost: US$ 1.8 million).
The scope of this component was further developed during implementation to build DDBRAs capacity to:
(a) reform Delta capture fishery management by establishing a new licensing system for fishing boats; and
(b) undertake economic appraisal of proposed development initiatives. This was achieved through
- 3 -



provision of technical assistance, training and equipment. The need for additional involvement of DDBRA
in supporting reform of fisheries resulted from a Government Decision (G.D. no.516/September 1997) to
transfer authority for management of fishery resources from State fishing enterprises to DDBRA.
Formerly Delta fishermen were obliged to sell their catch to State fishing enterprises at a fixed rate.
Following the transfer of authority, DDBRA initiated a system whereby fishermen were able to obtain
competitive market prices for their catch through participating in free auctions. The provision of training
on economic appraisal techniques, followed recognition of a need for DDBRA to be better equipped to
provide guidance on the economic viability and sustainability of development initiatives in the Delta.
2.     Monitoring (final cost: US$ 1.14 million). The scope of this component was extended during
implementation to support the excellent progress and implementation capacity of DDNI. The research and
monitoring activity of DDNI benefited of additional field, laboratoty, transportation and IT equipment, as
well as of funds for technical assistance and training to match the intensive intemational cooperation of the
institute.
3.     Pilot Polder Restoration to Natural Conditions, and Reed Restoration Research (final cost:
US$ 0.27 million). Under supervision, following the spectacular success of reed regeneration and wetland
restoration in Babina polder, some of the studies of reed restoration that were originally envisaged in the
initial project design were considered unnecessary and were, consequently dropped from the project.
Because of the confusion between administrative and ownership rights in early 1990's, the target polder
area envisaged to be restored could not be achieved. At the time, polders were under different or combined
authority among the Tulcea County Council, state-owned / private companies and the DDBRA.
Approximately 7,000 ha of polders have been restored, compared to a SAR target area of 37,765 ha.
4.     Ecosystems Restoration (final cost: US$ 0.81 million). The following sub-components were
subject to redesign during project irnplementation:
Willow planting - Since regeneration of willows occurs naturally adjacent to channels and river courses,
the emphasis of this sub-component was adjusted to focus on establishing village managed plantations for
production of fire wood in order to reduce pressure on natural forest ecosystems, while addressing the
needs of local communities.
Pilot sturgeon propagation through establishment of a hatchery - Under supervision, the rationale for
artificial propagation and release of sturgeon as the most effective means of conserving these species was
called into question and the component redesigned to: (a) undertake assessment of the major threats to
sturgeon populations (especially quantification and characterization of fishing pressure and the threats to
critical habitats), and (b) development a strategic regional collaborative plan for conservation of Danubian
sturgeon.
Protection offish from the lake Razim irrigation intake - A feasibility study undertaken under the project
indicated that investments envisaged in the initial project design would not be justifiable due to their
expense and inconclusive impact on conservation of Danube Delta biodiversity. Consequently, the project
did not proceed to invest in fish fingerling filtering devices for irrigation inflows.
Removal of metal structures - Following an inventory of unsightly metal structures, DDBRA concluded
that the cost of removal could be covered by private sector investors in scrap metal recycling.
Consequently project funds were reallocated to other project components.
Small grants fundfor research proposals with specialfocus on management of buffer zones - During
- 4 -



implementation, the focus of this sub-components was adjusted to give increased importance to exploring
opportunities for socio-economic development for local communities living in the Delta, while reducing
pressure on the natural resources.
5.     Public Awareness and Community Involvement (final cost: US$ 0.24 million). The scope of
this component was expanded during implementation, to include the participatory design of a public
awareness strategy and action plan for DDBRA, together with financing plan for its implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project preparation predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) and a quality at entry
assessment of this project was not, subsequently, undertaken by QAG. This ICR assigns a satisfactory
quality at entry rating based on the consistency of project goals with the objectives of the CAS,
Government priorities, the Bank's safeguard policies, the quality of design and risk assessment.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objective of strengthening the capacity of Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority (DDBRA) and
Danube Delta Research Institute (DDNI) to protect the ecosystems and biodiversity of the Danube Delta in
Romania was achieved in a satisfactory manner. Under the project, the capacity of both institutions to
address their mandates has been strengthened, through provision of field and office equipment, information
technology, technical assistance and training. Additionally, the project assisted the implementing
institutions to work together to identify development priorities for the Danube Delta based on economic and
environmental sustainability; to develop strategic and operational approaches to biodiversity monitoring,
wetland restoration and building public support and awareness of the needs and opportunities for
conservation of Danube Delta ecosystems; work with local conmmunities, and foster intemational
cooperation in support of conservation objectives.
4.2 Outputs by components.
1.    Institutional Strengthening of the Ecological Wardens Department (final cost: US$ 1.80
million). Rating: S. Under this component the project provided training, equipment and infrastructure to
strengthen the institutional and operational capacity of the DDBRA wardens department to manage
activities taking place in the Delta in accordance with the DDBRA conservation management plan, and to
contribute to ecological survey and research work. The component satisfactorily achieved the physical and
institution building objectives anticipated in the SAR, which resulted in an expanded role and improved
effectiveness of warden department staff.
Early in project implementation DDBRA established a new position for a training specialist who, with the
support of with technical assistance and exposure to conservation management training programs in other
countries, prepared a training and reference manual, and developed and implemented a program of
in-service vocational training courses tailored to the needs of DDBRA warden and inspectorate field staff.
The program included foundation courses for newly recruited staff, refresher and specialized courses for
more experience staff, and instruction in foreign language skills, including English and French. The training
manual included site specific reference material of relevance for each of the DDBRA's twelve subdistricts,
and the newly established warden sections for ecological monitoring and guiding. On site training was
augmented by study tours to protected area authorities in the United Kingdom, France, The Netherlands
and Ukraine, providing warden department staff with exposure to a broad range of new experience,
including guiding techniques, the role of visitor centers in ecological education, and hunting management in
protected areas, etc.
-5 -



In addition to training, this component financed the purchase of boats, vehicles; communication, field, and
office equipment; built or renovated accommodation for technical staff, field posts, visitor centers, and
watch towers, and provided signs and information panels. The scope of this component was further
developed during implementation to build DDBRAs capacity to: (a) assist in reforming Delta capture
fishery management by establishing a new licensing system for fishing boats; and (b) undertake economic
appraisal of proposed development initiatives. Importantly, there has been a shift in focus of the role of
warden field staff from enforcement to working with local stakeholders to assist them to manage resources
sustainably. The impact of these investments includes improving relations with Delta communities, and
increased effectiveness of warden department staff.
2.    Monitoring (final cost: US$ 1.14 million). Rating: HS. Under this component the project
improved systems for inventory and periodic monitoring of species, populations and ecosystems; developed
Geographic Information System (GIS) and information technology tools, and a hydrological model for the
Danube Delta. Activities financed under this component were implemented and further developed in a
highly satisfactory manner. Physical and institution building objectives anticipated in the SAR were
exceeded, resulting in greatly improved understanding of the status and dynamics of Danube Delta
ecosystems, allowing for development of effective resource management plans, and the establishment of
institutional capacity to plan and implement ecosystem monitoring programs on a national and regional
basis.
Baseline survey of Danube Delta ecosystems assessed the status and distribution of flora and fauna,
identifying many previously unrecorded species. Baseline surveys provided information necessary to zone
and manage Delta ecosystems and populations appropriately, prepare a red list of threatened Delta species,
and design systematic monitoring programs targeting rare and selected indicator species of birds and fish.
Additionally, under this component, DDNI undertook assessments of sustainable harvest levels for various
commercial fish species and developed management plans for reeds and grazing resources. The GIS center
established under the project is an international resource and asset. Overseas training, exchange programs
and equipment enabled DDNI staff to build a comprehensive Delta database, undertake GIS analysis and
prepare maps in accordance with management needs, including a vegetation map for the entire Danube
Delta that was developed in collaboration with Ukraine. The hydrological model of the Danube Delta,
which was developed in collaboration with the Dutch Government, allows for monitoring and management
of water flow and quality throughout the Delta. This component has had a profound impact on Romania's
capacity to monitor and manage the ecosystems and biological diversity of the Danube Delta and
elsewhere. Capacity developed under this component is already being used to map and monitor wetland
habitats throughout Romania, and contribute information and analysis to the international conservation
arena.
3.     Pilot Polder Restoration to Natural Conditions, and Reed Restoration Research (final cost:
US$ 0.27 million). Rating: S. This component piloted restoration of agricultural and fish polders to
natural wetlands ecosystems. While lack of clarity of the legal status of ownership of some polders
resulted in delay in achieving quantitative targets for restoration envisaged in the SAR (37,765 ha),
restoration of Babina, Cemovka, Enisala and Popina polders (approximately 7,000 ha) is proving to be
spectacularly successful. Ecological succession taking place in the restored polders has been monitored
with the assistance of intemational conservation organizations, and studies have been undertaken to identify
the most appropriate means of restoring remaining polders when consensus among stakeholders has been
achieved. In particular, the social and economic impacts of different options for polder restoration have
been assessed in consultation with local stakeholders and a plan for further restoration developed. As a
result of these initiatives, it is likely that local communities will derive economic benefits from the restored
ecosystems and will, therefore, support the restoration proccess, and that SAR targets will be achieved.
- 6 -



4.     Ecosystems Restoration (final cost: US$ 0.81 million). Rating: HS. The outcomes of this
component include: reduction of eutrophication and biodiversity loss in some Delta lake complexes;
improving relations between conservation authorities and Delta communities, together with greater focus,
on the part of DDBRA and DDNI, on the needs and opportunities for conservation linked development; and
the establishment of new skills and regional collaboration that will allow for sustainable management of
sturgeon and other fisheries of the lower Danube and Black Sea coast.
Under the project, eutrophication, sedimentation and loss of biodiversity of Fortuna Lumina and other
Delta lake complexes, was reduced through dredging and adjustment of waterflows in accordance with
predictive recommendations of the hydrological model developed under the ecosystems monitoring
component. Management of woodlots by Delta villages that are heavily dependent on Delta resources for
fuelwood is being piloted. In the first instance, this has had the beneficial impact of further improving
communications and relations between DDBRA and the target communities. Similarly, activities piloted
under the small grants program, including eco-tourism, commercial production of medicinal herbs and
handicrafts and, in particular, support for the newly emerging fishermen's associations, have focused on
demonstrating how improving economic conditions for Danube Delta communities can been linked with
sustainable use and conservation of Delta resources. Training in economic appraisal techniques, and
improved ecosystem monitoring provided under the project will assist DDBRA and DDI to monitor the
relative success and conservation impact of these initiatives in the medium term, with a view to prioritizing
firther support for conservation linked development in the Delta.
Important achievements have been realized under the sturgeon conservation subcomponent. The project
introduced and applied skills in Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA) to characterize and quantify the realities of
the largely illegal sturgeon fishery. To compliment the information on fishing pressure provided by RRA,
the project developed new capacity to monitor the seasonal movements of migratory sturgeon and assess
the importance of critical ecosystems for spawning, feeding and overwintering. Assessment of the fishery
and the migration were undertaken in collaboration with the countries that share the fishery (Bulgaria,
Ukraine and The Republic of Yugoslavia), and led to development of a regional conservation strategy for
sturgeon. Also, this activity led to the first gathering of the Danube River Commission (DRC) in ten years,
which reviewed the draft strategy at a meeting in Belgrade in May 2000. Subsequent meetings of the DRC
will now be held annually and the next DRC is scheduled to take place in Bulgaria in spring 2001. The
regional Commission for sustainable management of Danube and coastal fisheries will facilitate
implementation of the strategy. Skills, institutional capacity and collaborative mechanisms developed under
this subcomponent could be used to develop and implement regional agreements for sustainable
management of all Danube fisheries.
5.    Public Awareness and Community Involvement (final cost: US$ 0.24 million). Rating: S.
Outcomes of this component include: improved facilities and materials for public awareness, including two
new visitor centers, leaflets and posters; increased awareness on the part of Delta communities, especially
teachers and schoolchildren of the needs and opportunities for conservation and sustainable development;
collaborative arrangements with local, national and international NGOs in support of public awareness
objectives; and a comprehensive strategy to build public awareness and support for conservation of the
Danube Delta among key target audiences. During implementation it became apparent that public
awareness activities financed under the project were insufficient to achieve significant impact.
Consequently, project activities were augmented with professional guidance from the World Bank Resident
Mission and technical assistance financed under the project to develop a public communications strategy
for DDBRA. The strategy identifies and prioritizes information needs and target stakeholders, and
proposes a strategic approach to addressing and financing these needs over the short and medium term.
- 7 -



6.    Regional Initiatives, Coordination and Management Assistance (final cost: US$ 0.24 million).
Rating: HS. Technical assistance, training, study tours and meetings of the Scientific Council that were
financed under this component have supported establishment of arrangements for conservation of the
Danube Delta in collaboration with Ukrainian authorities; bilateral arrangements with several international
partners for assistance with key conservation initiatives; a regional protocol for conservation of the lower
Danube; and international recognition of the quality and importance of the work of DDBRA and DDNI, as
evidenced by DDBRA having been awarded the Diploma of the Council of Europe for ecological
management of the Delta, and DDI's increasing involvement in implementing international research
contracts. Links with the adjacent Danube Plavny Reserve in the Ukrainian portion of the Danube Delta
were established under the project through exchange visits and study tours, and are being consolidated
through joint training courses for Ukrainian and Romanian warden staff. Benefits of improved relations
include an agreement on management of a trans-boundary protected area, including collaborative
monitoring and management of migratory birds and fisheries, and development of a vegetation map of the
entire Delta. This bilateral initiative has been expanded under the recently declared lower Danube green
corridor whereby the Ministry's of Environment of Bulgaria, Moldova, Romania, and Ukraine have agreed
to conserve and manage wetland and flood plain habitats of the region. During project implementation, the
international stature and recognition of DDBRA and DDNI as leaders in European wetland conservation
has grown considerably.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As the project was financed with a grant under the GEF pilot phase, the economic rate of return was not
calculated at the time of appraisal. While now an economic rate of return can not be precisely quantified
and calculated, the following economic benefits have been identified: (i) increased fish production , in a
natural regime, in former polders ecologically restored; (ii) viable alternative income generation activities
which created the potential to reduce the pressure for fishing, as a result of the pilot projects implemented
under the Small Grants Program (eco-tourism, fishermen association, handicrafts); (iii) increased
responsibility and sustainability in using the natural resources, as a result of the economic reform
supported by the project for direct licensing of private fishermen; if developed and supported by other
measures, this would be the first step towards reduction of illegal fishing and thus increased budget
revenues from resource and income taxes; (iv) direct benefits for the local population in terms of firewood
from woodlots planted under the project, which would additionally reduce the pressure for wood-cutting in
the secular protected forests.
Project preparation also pre-dates the GEF requirement for an Incremental Cost Analysis.
4.4 Financial rate of retuirn:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project aimed to strengthen the institutional capacity of DDBRA and DDNI to monitor and manage the
natural ecosystems of the Danube Delta in a sustainable manner. It has significantly improved ability of
DDBRA and DDNI to make effective use of financial and human resources, and has build sustainable
institutional capacity that is already benefiting national and regional initiatives. Currently the staff of both
implementing agencies are well trained technically and managerially and have strong professional
motivations to serve the Delta. The project was implemented by a non stand-alone Project Management
Unit (PMU); the staff of the PMU concomitantly maintained their positions in DDBRA and DDNI, acting
in both capacities, so the experience gained in implementing the project will be fully incorporated in the
future activities of the two institutions, the project being fully sustainable from this perspective. As a result
- 8 -



of the experience, training and equipment gained under the project, the DDNI has accessed other
international research grants and projects and has been nominated national coordinator for wetland research
and for the Danube River Green Cornidor Project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the c ontrol of go\vernment or7 implementing agency:
Factors beyond the immediate control of Government that affected implementation and outcome of the
project included:
(a)    The prevailing economic environment and impacts of the transition, leading to
unsustainable use of Delta fish resources and deteriorating relations between Delta communities
and DDBRA: Restructuring and closure of industries that provided most employment in the towns
near the Delta (Tulcea, Braila and Galati), led to large scale unemployment, increasing economic
dependency on the illegal use of Danube Delta resources, and the emergence of a vibrant black market
for fish. At the same time, State fishing enterprises employing fishermen maintained low acquisition
prices for fish in order to be able to cover inefficiencies. During the first years of project
implementation, legal marketing channels, via State owned fishing enterprises, paid a price that was
only a small fraction of the price available on the illegal free market. Consequently, in order to survive,
Danube Delta fishing communities turned to the black market. This development undermined the
relationship between Delta communities and DDBRA field staff who were obliged to try to enforce an
inappropriate and unwelcome law, and resulted in uncontrolled and excessive use of Delta fish
resources.
(b)    International interest and support for conservation initiatives in the Danube Delta:
Collaboration and technical support provided, in particular, by the Dutch RIZA (i.e., the General
Directorate of Public Works and Water Management, which provides technical assistance in water
resource management and wetland conservation worldwide), and interaction with the international
conservation community, provided moral and substantive support for project implementation, and
increased DDBRA and DDNI's awareness of the Delta's international profile and the importance of
their roles in conserving its biodiversity.
5.2 Factors generallv subject to government control:
Factors generally within the control of Govemrnment that impacted on project implementation include:
(a)    Reform of the Delta capture fisheries: Following the change of Government in 1996, the
process of dismantling and privatizing the State fishing enterprises began and DDBRA comrnenced
working with Delta fishing communities to pilot community based fishermen's associations, and
introducing free market auctions for fish. The process of supplanting the uncontrolled illegal fish
harvest and market may take several years, nevertheless DDBRA has embarked on a process that will
lead to regulation and sustainable management of Delta fish resources by the communities that depend
on them, increased prosperity for Delta fishermen, improved relations between DDBRA and Delta
communities, and increased opportunity for DDBRA to conserve Delta resources in collaboration with
local stakeholders.
(b)    Budgetary constraints and public service levels of remuneration: Public service pay scales
were inadequate to cover the cost of living for DDBRA staff who did not also have access to economic
support from family or other forms of income, and provided little incentive for staff to stay in the
service of the authority. This led to a high turnover of technical and warden staff, and reduced the
- 9-



impact of training and technical assistance provided under the project.
(c)    Lack of clarity of ownership/use rights for abandoned fish and agricultural polders led to
delays in implementing the polder restoration program. The issue of clarification of ownership rights is
now being overcome. DDBRA undertook an economic and social valuation of polder restoration, in
order to prove the environmental, economic and social benefits to all stakeholders and to gain political
and local acceptance for polder restoration. Consequently, the Tulcea County Council indicated it will
allow restoration of abandoned polders under its administration and the first achievement was general
agreement and actual restoration of the Popina polder in mid 2000. According to present plan,
developed and agreed by all stakeholders, it is estimated that 45% of the target polder areas will be
restored by 2002, and 90% by 2004.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors subject to implementing agency control that influenced project outcome include the innovative
institutional arrangements for project management. The absence of a discrete PMU had both
positive and negative outcomes. Early in implementation, supervision encountered some instances
where lack of clearly assigned responsibility for project tasks had led to delayed follow up on
agreements and next steps. On the positive side, the absence of a PMU ultimately led to mainstreaming
of project activities in the management plans of both DDBRA and DDNI.
5.4 Costs and financing:
At US$ 4.4 million, GEF financed project costs were 8% less than the US$ 4.8 million estimated at
appraisal. This reduction was caused by the gradual depreciation of the SDR against the US$. During
implementation, costs of some components were adjusted in accordance with changing priorities and needs.
The cost of public awareness activities was increased by 34% due to recognition of the urgent need to build
awareness and support for project activities among key Delta stakeholder groups, and develop a prioritized
communications strategy to support conservation of the Delta. Unexpectedly rapid progress in developing
and using facilities and systems financed under the project justified a 75% increase in investments in
building the institutional capacity of DDNI under the ecosystem monitoring component. New opportunities
in international cooperation, leading to adoption of treaties and agreements for management and
conservation of shared resources, led to a cost increase of 23% of this project component. Increases in
resource allocation to high performing activities were derived from a corresponding reduction in allocations
to components where the need for project financing had diminished. These included ecosystems restoration,
where costs were reduced by 36%, and polder restoration, where costs were reduced by 55%. There were
no major delays in disbursement. After completion of the full program, 98.35% of the grant was disbursed
and US$ 65,720 represented savings which were cancelled from the grant amount.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The rationale for sustainability of project activities is supported by GOR's commitment to consistent
provision of budgetary support for DDBRA recurrent costs and project activities; decentralization of
management functions and institutional capacity; revision and strengthening the legal framework for
conservation management of the DDBR, and the intention to explore provisions for revenue generation
from economic activities taking place in the Delta; and recent ratification of international conventions
focused on conservation of the lower Danube region.
From the outset, project design decentralized and mainstreamed project management functions to DDBRA,
thereby building capacity for institutional sustainability. Project implementation built on this local
- 10-



administrative foundation to equip and train implementing agency teams of technical, field and
administrative staff who are professionally motivated to continue to pursue longer term project goals in
accordance with strategic approaches developed under the project (e.g., for ecosystem and species
monitoring, building public support and species conservation initiatives). Additionally, the project
developed the institutional capacity to assess the technical, economic and environmental sustainability of
proposed conservation and development initiatives, and to build stakeholder support for actions through
incorporating workshops and consultations as part of the routine management planning process for the
DDBR.
Project implementing agencies are now further exploring opportunities to ensure the social sustainability of
economic development activities, and to link these with conservation of Delta ecosystems. This has been
greatly assisted by changes in the allocation of rights to manage and market Danube Delta fish resources
that have taken place during implementation and that have been supported by project activities. Important
developments include the replacement of state owned fishing enterprises with community based fishery
resource management organizations, and provision of legal access to free market prices for fish. The
growing development of ecotourism is further consolidating the linkage between sustainable incomes for
Delta communities and conservation of natural and biological resources.
6.2 Transitioni arr-angement to regular operations:
Regarding future financial sustainability, GOR is demonstrating conmmitment to providing DDBRA
recurrent costs and continuing environmental restoration works initiated under the project and, for example,
have provided US$0.5 million for polder reconstruction in the year 2000. Additionally, DDNIs capacity
for commercial sustainability has been greatly developed under the project and is demonstrated by their
being awarded contracts for various independent research assignments. Regarding future legal
arrangements for management of the Delta, Ordinance 112/2000 modifies the legal framework for DDBR,
and strengthens the administrative functions of DDBRA through harmonizing its role with local
Environmental Protection Agencies. DDBRA is now exploring opportunities for retaining revenues derived
from fines and taxes on natural resources, including fishing and tourism permits, so that they can be used to
support environmental management and conservation activities. DDBRA is also exploring the possibility
of developing income generation activities, such as guided tours, publications, etc. With support from
Romania's second GEF biodiversity project, the Biodiversity Conservation Management Project (BCMP),
MWFEP is now beginning a national initiative to review and harnonize all sectoral policy and legislation
that has potential impact on biodiversity. This will further strengthen and consolidate the legal basis for
conservation of the Delta and provide for financial sustainability of protected area management, including
Government budgetary support and local generation of revenues for use in conservation. Objectives of the
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project will be further supported by activities to be financed under the World
Bank/GEF strategic partnership, which aims to reduce pollution burden on the Danube and Black Sea
Basins.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Identification (Rating - S): Bank involvement in the project followed preparation of the Romania
Environment Strategy (1992), undertaken in close collaboration with the Romanian authorities, which
emphasized the importance of the Danube Delta as a wetland of global importance, and included
conservation of Romania's natural heritage as a priority. GOR established the Delta as a Biosphere
Reserve in 1991, and created DDBRA, as the first protected area management authority in Romania. Prior
to establishment of DDBRA, with the exception of scientific reserves for academic research purposes, there
were no institutional mechanisms for protected area or buffer zone management in Romania.
- 11 -



The Romanian authorities worked closely with IUCN, which helped organize a workshop to identify
conservation management priorities for the Delta. Project identification followed this workshop. Following
the workshop, EBRD also identified a project that was to be financed with loan funds. The EBRD project
was to focus on sustainable economic activities and on preparation of a management plan. Regarding
priority for GEF under the pilot phase, the project was also seen as providing a link between the Danube
River Basin Environmental Prograrn and the Black Sea Management Project, and was justified in GEF
operational programs for both the biodiversity and intemational waters programs. The Initial Executive
Project Summary therefore proposed support for a water model as well as for the activities which were
eventually retained.
When it was initially identified, the project was to be a larger project covering the whole delta, to be jointly
implemented by Ukraine and Romania. The Ukrainian and Romanian authorities both indicated that they
would prefer separate projects that would be linked through informal technical coordination and
cooperation mechanisms. Experience has shown this approach to have been appropriate and successful
Cooperation has been built through project implementation with staff from both sides of the Danube now
participating in joint training programs and technical cooperation activities. Including formal coordination
in the project design would have been unwelcome and may have used project funds less effectively.
Preparation (Rating - S): Bank preparation should be seen in the context of the IUCN report and the
technical assistance and project preparation assistance also being undertaken with EBRD support at the
time. EBRD supported preparation of a conservation management plan for the Danube Delta with a high
degree of local participation, and preparation of a project focusing on: (a) development of economic
activities for local communities; (b) improved drinking water supply; and (c) a new building, equipment
and TA/training for the DDBRA. The GEF project team worked closely with the EBRD project team and
the Romanian authorities to coordinate project activities, and jointly participated in several workshops.
Preparation of the GEF project was financed through a project preparation advance of US$ 150,000, which
was executed by MWFEP. A portion of the preparation grant was allocated to preparing water modeling
activities that were not financed under the project, since the value added and cost of the water model
remained uncertain, and the initiative risked becoming an academic rather than operational exercise.
However, the GEF grant financed the equipment used to obtain hydrological data, while the DDNI obtained
from RIZA the licence for the hydrological modelling. The preparation team focused on allocating
resources for training warden department staff, better monitoring and information management, restoration
of wetlands, pilot ecosystem restoration and public awareness. In retrospect this practical focus of project
activities was appropriate and successful. Since social aspects were the focus of the EBRD project
preparation, formal social assessment was not carried out under the GEF project preparation. The project
was assigned an environmental category C rating since its impact on the environment was clearly positive.
Appraisal (Rating - S): At the time, the overall budget for preparation and appraisal of GEF projects was
limited. As a result, design of some components was better than others. The wardens' training component
was well designed, as was the monitoring and information technology component, and the wetland
restoration component. A strong feature of project preparation and, subsequent implementation, was that it
sought and brought in support from other specialized organizations. For example, WWF Germany through
the Auen Institute provided technical support to polder restoration, and Birdlife Intemational, worked with
the Romanian Ornithological Society on designing some of the bird monitoring programs. A key decision
made jointly with the Romanian authorities was to place responsibility for project implementation with
DDBRA in Tulcea, rather than with a separate PIU in Bucharest. This approach "institutionalized" project
ownership right from the start. A second key decision, shortly before Board approval, was to appoint an
- 12 -



ex-minister from the area with skills in public administration as the Chairman of DDBRA.
7.2 Supervision:
Continuity of supervising staff and a Bank supervision team that consistently included a combination of
relevant technical expertise with Bank procedural and administrative skills was a key determinant of project
success. Forrnal project supervision was undertaken on a semi-annual basis with more frequent follow up
on the part of resident mission and headquarters staff as needed. Quality of supervision was enhanced by
the delegation of task management in the resident mission, which allowed increased and efficient
responsiveness to client needs. The core supervision team, which included skills in biodiversity
conservation and natural resource management, was augmented when necessary with additional expertise in
areas such as fisheries and wetland management, public communications, procurement and financial
management. Continuity of supervision allowed for development of good working relations between Bank
and counterpart teams, and to collaborative and innovative restructuring of project activities as new
information and opportunities became available. The quality of Bank supervision of this project has been
subject to review by QAG and found to be satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Rating - S.
The Bank's performance was satisfactory throughout preparation and implementation. Given the resources
and experience available at the time, the project was well prepared. Project objectives and design were
relevant and appropriate, and information provided in the project documents on project activities, budget
and implementation arrangements proved to be a valuable reference to the client in implementing and
adjusting project activities with the support of consistent and close Bank supervision. During
implementation, the Bank provided assistance with procurement issues, contributed to technical discussions
leading to re-focussing and strengthening of some project activities in accordance with the steadily evolving
conditions in the Delta, and facilitated partnerships with international organizations. The Bank provided
continuous supervision of the project by an appropriately qualified technical specialist and by resident
mission based task managers, thereby providing for informal interaction between the client, other
stakeholders and the Bank as necessary.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Rating - S.
The borrower (MWFEP) prepared the project in a timely fashion, and made the appropriate decisions
regarding decentralization of project management to the DDBRA, and close involvement of concerned
stakeholders. Both the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority and the Danube Delta National
Institute, as well as the Tulcea municipal authorities, participated in preparation and there was a strong
sense of local ownership. Participation of local community stakeholders in project preparation was
addressed through work connected with the parallel development of the EBRD project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Rating - S.
Government was consistently and constructively supportive of project implementation. Having committed
to decentralized implementation arrangements, Government involvement in the daily and operational
aspects of project management was deliberately minimized, leading to local ownership and successful
development of institutional capacity of the implementing agencies. Counterpart funding was generally
provided in a timely manner.
7.6 Implementinrg Agency:
Rating - S.
- 13 -



Project implementation was generally undertaken in accordance with agreed workplans and schedules.
There were no significant lags in disbursement and project objectives were achieved in a satisfactory or
highly satisfactory manner. Although, at that time, the implementing agencies had little experience with
Bank operations, they managed the procurement and consultant supervision process in a satisfactory and
timely fashion. Both implementing agencies demonstrated a flexible and innovative approach to project
implementation, and were ready to experiment with new technical approaches to ecosystem and wetland
restoration, and to the involvement of NGO and local stakeholder groups in the development of project
activities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rating - S.
The recipient's performnance was satisfactory. Project funds were disbursed in the agreed five year period,
legal covenants were continuously enforced and, with the inclusion of adaptations as necessary, the project
was implemented largely as planned. The two implementing agencies adapted well to the changes,
challenges and opportunities made available by the project. DDBRAs role was expanded from monitoring
and protection to include ecological restoration and management, and working with local communities to
raise awareness of the needs and opportunities for conservation of Delta biodiversity and landscapes, and
for sustainable management of Delta natural resources. DDNI's capacity to provide research and analysis
to support DDBRAs expanded planning and management functions increased dramatically during project
implementation. DDNI is now routinely involved in undertaking similar tasks in support of national and
intemational conservation and resource management initiatives.
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons from the perspective of the Bank and the recipient include:
(a)    Allocation of responsibility for project management to the staff of existing institutional
structures, rather than establishing a separate Project Management Unit, provided for
sustainability. Additionally, decentralization of responsibility for project management to the site
level implementation unit built ownership and capacity. Both aspects of implementation
arrangements - intemal project management unit and decentralization - were innovative at the
time of project preparation, and both proved to be successful and instrumental in securing
project success.
(b)    With the support of quality supervision, project success was not significantly hampered
by the relatively low cost of preparation, or the absence of subsequently developed Bank and
GEF processing requirements that, had they existed at the time of preparation, would have
greatly increased the cost and time of project preparation.
(c)    Continuity in the Bank supervision team, which consistently included a mix of relevant
technical expertise and Bank administrative know-how, contributed to improved relations
between the Bank and client, and allowed for evolution of project activities and successful
implementation.
(d)    Project design should not rely on related but unconfirmed operations to undertake
activities that could significantly influence project success. In the case of the Danube Delta
Biodiversity Project, the related operation was a proposed EBRD investment loan that was to
address socio-economic aspects of development in the Delta. The EBRD loan did not eventuate.
- 14-



(e)    To minimise resistance to change and gain public support, a professionally designed
public communications strategy and action plan should be developed and implemented early in
the project cycle, in order to build awareness and necessary support for project activities among
key stakeholder groups.
(f)    Early in the project cycle, participatory techniques should be used to undertake
socio-economic assessment of existing and potential uses of reserve resources and develop
community based strategies for developing conservation-linked sustainable resource use. In this
regard, skills in RRA, cost benefit analysis, communications and conflict resolution are of
fundamental importance for protected area management.
(g)    Performance indicators should be prescribed as one of the objectives of baseline
assessments of ecosystems, socio-economic parameters, and other underlying factors affecting
use of natural resources. Subsequently, wherever possible, implementation should be
periodically measured against meaningful impact indicators.
(h)    Collaboration for conservation and environmental management across international
boundaries can be effectively fostered by parallel but independent projects.
(i)    Interaction between existing and new client implementation teams for World Bank
projects can greatly contribute to the quality of project design (lessons learned from the
perspective of Romania's second GEF biodiversity project team are in Annex 8)
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Danube Delta is an important wildlife habitat, the second largest delta in Europe, covering
580,000 ha. It has the largest number of birds of any South Europe wetland, being a key area
for passage of migrants and wintering birds, when the number of winter wildfowl may exceed
2 million. Over 320 species of birds are of European importance, of which 12 are globally
endangered. People have used the natural resources of the Delta for over 7,000 years. The
Delta is an economic resource, encouraging activities like navigation, commercial fishing,
tourism, reed harvesting. In the last century the wetlands have been degraded. There are
several reasons for decline, such as the interference in the natural hydrology cycle by the
construction of canals, dikes, polders, and dams upstream, the embankment of the Danube
flood plain, ill-conceived attempts at intensive agriculture, fish farming, forestry development,
inappropriate harvesting methods, pollution, overfishing and uncontrolled tourism.
9.1. Project Objective and Components
The project aimed to protect the Romanian Delta ecosystems. This objective was achieved
through the following 6 components:
(a)    Strengthening the wardens department. This component focused on improving the
capacity of DDBRA through the provision of equipment to enhance mobility and surveying,
infrastructure and training, in order to support nature protection, surveys, public awareness
and nature interpretation in the Delta;
- 15 -



(b)   Ecosystems monitoring. Through improved population and species inventories,
ecosystems surveys, hydrological monitoring and development of an integrated database using
GIS technology to provide the basis for development of resource management plans;
(c)   Polder restoration. Pilot restoration of polders to natural condition with impact and
hydrological monitoring, of abandoned polders together with applied research into reed
restorations;
(d)   Ecosystem restoration. Additional pilot wetland restoration, including protection of a
lake from direct inflow of Danube river, willow planting, village woodlots, pilot protection of
fish fingerlings from an irrigation pumping station intake, removal of some deteriorating metal
structures for landscape enhancement, sturgeon recovery, and small grants fund for research
proposals;
(e)   Public awareness. A component including support to the DDBRA in the production
of public awareness material, support to wardens to work with schools and local communities,
and support to local NGOs to enable them to expand their public awareness activities; and
(f)    Management and co-ordination. Assistance with co-ordination of activities between
Ukraine and Romania, and limited technical assistance with project management, especially
with procurement and disbursement.
9.2. Project outconmes
The project had positive and satisfactory outcomes with respect to human resources
development, improved biodiversity and utilisation of the relevant data by the DDBRA:
(a)   Institutional strengthening. DDBRA staff are better trained and equipped to fulfil
DDBRA's mandate of improved management and protection of the biodiversity;
(b)   Improved biodiversity management. A better protection and management of the
biodiversity in the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve has been ensured;
(c)    Participation of local stakeholders in sustainable development. A greater
involvement of local communities and of NGOs has been achieved.
9.3. Evaluation of the Bank's, of the borrower's and ofother partners'performance
(a)   Bank's Performance
The Bank's performance was satisfactory throughout preparation and implementation. The
project was well prepared: the project design was fully appropriate to the project objectives,
and the recipient was comfortable with the level of detail on project activities, budget, and
implementation arrangements found in the project document. Starting early in implementation,
the Bank provided assistance with procurement, focused on human resources development
activities that were useful in implementing the project and preparing the recipient for the
operational phase, and assisted with facilitating partnerships with intemational organisations
interested in the project. The Bank was responsive to the additional supervision needs not
foreseen during preparation, by accessing trust funds for technical assistance and training. The
project was constantly supervised, from launching through completion, by a technical
specialist, by a highly qualified resident mission staff member and by other experienced
resident mission staff, familiar with the needs of the project and of Romania.
(b)   Recipient's Performance
The recipient's performance was satisfactory. The project was disbursed over a five-year
- 16 -



period, and the legal covenants were continuously enforced. The project was implemented as
planned, with several adaptive changes made in consultation with the Bank. The principal
beneficiaries of the project were the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority and the
Danube Delta National Institute. The DDBRA staff performed well in adapting their previous
mandate of monitoring and protection functions that were typical of a strictly protected area,
to include wetland management and public education and involvement. The DDBRA was
assisted by MWFEP, and by the PMU. The performance of the MWFEP was satisfactory in
facilitating all aspects of the project. The PMU's efforts and results in procurement and as
facilitator of project implementation were excellent, particularly in the context of the country's
extensive regulations and procedures.
9.4. Key Lessons Learned
The key lessons learned from the Recipient perspective are the following:
(a)   Well-planned public awareness activities are needed early in the project in order to get
the public involved in a meaningful way.
(b)   Future projects should seek ways to simplify requirements and procedures early in
project implementation, in order to avoid progress delays.
(c)   Payments and disbursement should be done on time, following the stipulations of the
Grant Agreement.
(d)   Continuity in PMU activities and responsibilities should be ensured along the project
life.
(e)   Continuity in supervision responsibility contributes greatly to the relationship between
the Bank and its client.
9.5. Proposed arrangementforfuture operation
(a)   Sustainability. The main stakeholders' commitment to continue the project activities
is strong and key benefits of the project will continue to be achieved in the operational phase
with financial support from the government. In addition, DDBRA is seeking ways and
promoting legislation to implement mechanisms for partial self-financing, such as revenues
from fines, taxes on resources, fees paid by visitors, donations, applications for small grants,
etc.
(b)   Future Operations.The recipient has identified the following activities to be
developed in the operational period from 2000 to 2003: DDBRA infrastructure and resource
management, wetland restoration, research and monitoring, public awareness, regional and
international cooperation, tourism and development of alternative activities.
The following activities have been identified as next steps:
(i) Strengthening the wardens department:
-     Involve the local communities in control and supervision activities;
-     Involve the wardens in data collection for maintaining the data base, to be used in the
evaluation of the evolution of the ecosystems and in the DDBRA management.
(ii) Ecosystems monitoring
-     Use the experience gained in the project for other GEF projects e.g. Lower Prut River,
- 17 -



Danube River Green Corridor, Biodiversity Conservation Management and Agricultural
Pollution Control;
-     Provide resources for supporting the long term DDBR ecosystems monitoring
program;
-     Improve the telecommunication facilities for improving data exchange between
DDBRA and DDNI;
-     Improve the system to access the hydrological data base from AR;
-     Establish a Protocol for cooperation between DDBRA and AR regarding hydrological
monitoring data access.
(iii) Polder restoration
-     Finalize restoration works in Fortuna, Dunavat, Holbina areas (7,745 ha). Ecological
restoration is essential for the sustainable development of the delta and the coastal zone.
(iv) Ecosystem restoration
-     Replicate the plantation of other woodlots, in other parts of the Danube Delta, with a
view to meet all the needs of the population in the area;
-     Replicate the pilot projects for eco-tourism, fishermen association, medicinal plants
and handicrafts, to ensure alternative occupations and sustainable resource use;
*     Implement the sturgeon conservation strategy. The Danube Fishery Commission
member states should enforce the measures referring to: participatory management and
licensing system, breeders protection, conservation of genetic diversity and monitoring of
capture.
(v) Public awareness
Intervene at the local and national levels to modify the Curricula dedicated to the
schools operating in DDBR and in the surrounding area, in view of developing environmental
protection education in the area;
-     Cooperate with local NGOs and organize field classes for children, focusing on specific
cases from the delta; in addition, identify and attract the necessary funds to implement the
component of the Strategy referring to environmental protection education.
(vi) Management and coordination
-     Organize a working group for establishing bylaws/ regulations for the bilateral
Biosphere Reserve Romania-Ukraine;
-     Continue technical and research regional cooperation;
-     Participate in the new Danube Green Corridor Project;
-     Participate in international convention activities (Ramsar, Bonn, Berne);
-     Identify alternative foreign financing sources.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners ('NGOS/private sector):
- 18 -



10. Additional Information
There is no additional information
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
indlcatorlMat,t     Proj t In last 7  PSR                   tuaKtL L;     t aEstae
Increased capacity of DDBRA warden   Key performance indicators were not   DDBRA warden department staff provided
department staff to address expanded role in identified at appraisal       with facilities, equipment and training that is
field conservation                                                          now being used effectively in an expanded
role that includes monitoring, public
awareness and community outreach
Improved capacity of DDNI to undertake  7,300 out of 37,765                Completed inventory of Delta ecosystems,
ecosystems monitoring, research and                                         periodic monitoring systems in place and
analysis in support of conservation                                         being implemented, fully functioning GIS
management                                                                 center undertaking analysis in support of
DDBRA management needs and other
national and intemational conservation
initiatives
Restoration of agricultural and fish polders to                            Approximately 19.3 % of SAR targets for
natural wetland ecosystems; control of                                      polder reconstruction completed, and a plan
sedimentation and eutrophication of delta                                  in place to restore 100 + 45% of SAR
wetlands, and conservation of Danubian                                     targets by 2002, and 90% by 2004. Control
sturgeon                                                                    of sedimentation and Eutropication in
265,420 ha of Delta ecosystems; and a
region conservation plan for sturgeon
adopted.
Improved public awareness of needs and                                     Public awareness strategy prepared and
opportunities for conservation of Delta                                    being implemented
ecosystems and biodiversity
Improved intemational collaboration in                                      Bilateral Romanian/
support of regional conservation initiatives                                Ukrainian Danube Delta biosphere reserve
established, and international program for
conservation of lower Danube region ratified
Output Indicators:
lndlemtodMatdlxt  L,bjected .......           l  P        0    W     dActLaS 0teE7tI7ate
Number of DDBRA wardens department    Key performance indicators were not   Ninety DDBRA warden department staff
field staff trained, and training system in   identified at appraisal      trained, and receiving periodic refresher and
place                                                                      skills upgrading training; role of warden
department expanded to indude data
collection, public awareness and working
with local communities
DDBRA warden department equipment and                                       Boats, vehicles, infrastructure provided in
infrastructure provided and being used for                                 accordance with agreed targets and being
conservation management                                                     used to address DDBRA mandate
GIS information technology system                                           Functioning GIS center established within
established and operating in support of                                     DDNI (equipment provided, 3 staff trained).
ecosystem monitoring and management                                         GIS outputs being utilized by management
program                                                                    include maps of soils, vegetation and
ecosystems, hydrological complexes, critical
habitats, tourism, etc. DDNI is also being
contracted to undertake GIS analysis for
other national and intemational conservation
intiatives
- 20 -



Baseline ecosystem surveys completed and                                     Baseline surveys of flora and fauna
periodic monitoring systems in place                                         completed; red data book prepared; periodic
monitoring of Delta ecosystems, breeding,
migratory and endangered bird species on
going and influencing conservation
management planning
Ecological reconstruction of agricultural and
fish polders
Eutrophication and sedimentation of lake and                                  Civil works and dredging of 300 km of
canal complexes reduced                                                       channels resulting in control of sedimentation
and eutrophication of approximately 265,400
hectares of Delta lake and wetland
complexes
Small grants program implemented resuling                                     Small grant funded feasibility studies of
in improved knowledge, awareness and                                          sustainable development options completed
participation of Delta communities in                                         and pilot projects in ecotourism, community
sustainable resource management                                               based fisheries management and handicrafts
production and marketing being implemented
Conservation of Danubian sturgeon                                             Strategic plan for regional conservation of
Danubian sturgeon prepared and
international collaborative mechanism to
support implementation of the plan
established.
Improved public awareness and support for                                     Public awareness strategy, action and
conservation initiatives                                                     financing plan completed; two visitor centers
established and operating; over 40 teachers
and 1,500 schoolchildren in the Delta have
been provided with instruction and
promotional materials
Regional collaboration in support of                                          Bilateral Romanianl
conservation                                                                  Ukrainian Danube Delta biosphere reserve
established, involving regular joint staff
training, information sharing and exchange
programs; DDBRA/DDNI participation in
intemational collaborative program for
conservation of lower Danube region; and
various bilateral arrangements in support of
wetland conservation locally and
intemationally
End of project
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Comronent (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Frojct Cost By Compcnent            iUS$ minlion    US$ million
Strengthening of the Warden's Department             1.50           1.80          1.09
Ecosystem Monitoring                                 0.65           1.14          1.72
Polder Restoration                                   0.57           0.27          0.46
Pilot Wetland Restoration                            1.17           0.81          0.68
Public Awareness                                     0.16           0.24           1.5
Management and Coordination                          0.19           0.24          1.26
Total Baseline Cost                                  4.24           4.50
Physical Contingencies                              0.42
Price Contingencies                                 0.14
Total Project Costs             4.80           4.50
Total Financing Required              4.80           4.50
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ProureentMehod-
Expenditure C.tegory     ICS           NCB                      B.V.       Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.60         0.50         0.00         1.10
(0.00)       (0.50)       (0.50)       (0.00)       (1.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         2.00         0.00         2.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.90)      (0.00)        (1.90)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         1.20         0.00         1.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.20)       (0.00)       (1.20)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.50         0.00         0.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.40)       (0.00)       (0.40)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.60         4.20         0.00        4.80
(0.00)       (0.50)       (4.00)       (0.00)       (4.50)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
PrNcurement Method
Expenditure Cateory      Ica                                    NO8F.      TtlC
.b_6,>~~~~~~~~~~C                                                Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.73         0.00         0.73
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.68)       (0.00)       (0.68)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         1.64         0.00         1.64
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.57)       (0.00)       (1.57)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         1.71         0.00         1.71
- 22 -



(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.71)         (0.00)         (1.71)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.42           0.00           0.42
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.34)         (0.00)         (0.34)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00           4.50           0.00           4.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.30)          (0.00)        (4.30)
1F Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appratisal
Component               ApprasaE Estimate             Actual/atest Estimate     Percent
INBank    Govt       ClF.   tBank         Go.        CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Strengthening the                                         1.64       0.16
Warden's Department
Ecosystem Monitoring                                      1.12       0.02
Polder Restoration                                        0.26       0.01
Pilot Wetland Restoration                                 0.80       0.01
Public Awareness                                          0.24       0.00
Management and                                            0.24       0.00
Coordination
TOTAL                     4.50       0.30                 4.30       0.20               95.6   66.7
The separate Bank and Government contribution for each component was not estimated at appraisal.
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable to GEF projects.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Pr*ect Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
I   Natural Resources Economist            S                  S
I   Biodiversity Specialist                S                  S
I    Environmental Specialist              S                  S
I   Financial Analyst                      S                  S
I    Water Management Specialist           S                  S
I   Ecologist                              S                  S
Appraisal/Negotiation
2    Natural Resources                     S                  S
Economist
I   Environmental Specialist               S                  S
I   Biodiversity Specialist                S                  S
I   Water Management Specialist            S                  S
I   Procurement\Financial                  S                  S
Management Specialist
I    Regional Procurement Advisor          S                  S
I   Project Cost Specialist                S                  S
Supervision
4   Economists                            S                   S
I  Biodiversity Specialist                S                   S
2   Environmental Specialist               S                  S
2   Financial Management Specialist        S                  S
3   Procurement Specialist                S                   S
I  Public Affairs Officer                 S                   S
I  Water Management Specialist            S                   S
ICR
2    Biodiversity Specialists              S                  S
I   Economist                              S                  S
I   Public Affairs Officer                 S                  S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 41.4                         110.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                      58.8                         147.7
Supervision                                87.1                        231.1
ICR
Total                                                                  488.8
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
[I Macro policies                          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                         O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
LO Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development                O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
L Environmental                            * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
K] Poverty Reduction                O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
El Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OI Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
K] Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                            OHS *S OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS   Ou  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
E Preparation                                        OHS OS   O U  O HU
El Government implementation performance             O HS O S  O U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  O U  O HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority Progress Reports 1-10
Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority Public Awareness Strategy
Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority Public Awareness Strategy Financing Plan
Developing Self-Sustainability of the Danube Delta Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority
The Danube Delta-Home for People and Nature
Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Research Institute
- 28 -



Additional Annex 8. The Perspective of Romania's GEF Operational Phase Biodiversity
Project Team
LESSON LEARNED ON DANUBE DELTA STUDY TOUR 22 -28 MAY 1999
Activities               Lessons                Action plan for the BC Management
Project
Institutional    *   Clearly defined institutional    *Legislation for the establishment of
framework      framework improves management    PAs define clear objectives and
activities                        responsibilities for PMAs
Staff policy  *     Staff stability ensure       *Establish adequate financial
efficiency in management activities    mechanisms for the PMA to ensure
*    Activity milestones are      possibilities for compensation and
respected if staff members are   incentives for the staff
properly assigned for tasks       *Clear responsibilities for all staff
*    Trained staff have efficient    members and well defined deadlines
activity                          *Establish appropriate training
programs for PMA staff and park
rangers
Community      *    Local people informed about   *Initial workshop to inform local
outreach       the project and PAs objectives    communities about the project and PAs
support management activities     objectives
*     Communities involved in     *Local communities will have
park management processes help   representatives in Consultative
identify management solutions     Committees
*     Trained PA staff in         oTraining for PMA staff and for rangers
communication techniques improves  in communication techniques
links between PMA and local       eSpecial sub-component targeting local
communities                       communities to be developed in the
Public Awareness Strategy at the sites
Participative    *   Stakeholder constituency    *Establish scientific and consulting
mechanisms     improves the efficiency of        committees and involve them in
for PA         management activities             management decision processes
management
NGO            *    NGO involvement improves   *Identify local and national NGOs
involvement    management activities related to  willing to help accomplishing PA
public awareness, community       management objectives
outreach, eco-tourism.
- 29 -



Public          *     Well managed public          *Well established public awareness
awareness       awareness activities increase the  strategy focused on key stakeholders
strategy        support of stakeholders and reduce    *Promotional materials with clear
delays in project activities caused by   objectives, topics and key information
misunderstandings
Information     *     Clearly defined objectives for  *Involve public awareness specialists in
centre          information centres improve        the design of the visitor
presentation and displaying        centres/informnation points
possibilities of informational     eMonitor visitors opinion and consider
materials                          suggestions
*     Well designed and presented
information help raising public
awareness on PA objectives
Coordination    *     Good linkage between         *Research contracts focused on
between         research and management activities   practical issues for PA management
management    reduce costs and time allocated to    eConsider research results in
and research    activities which benefit on research    management planning/decision
activities     results
Biodiversity    *     Establishment of adequate    *Use competitive intemational expertise
monitoring      biodiversity monitoring system leads  to establish biodiversity monitoring
to valuable database for           strategy
management decisions               *Train PMA staff and rangers for data
collection
*     Quality information used to    *Use of competitive GIS for the
GIS use in     establish GIS improves information    establishment of a complete
decisional      offered for planning and           biodiversity database
processes       management                         *Procure competitive information
*     Use of GIS in management    needed for GIS
decisions improves management      *Proper use of GIS information in
activities                         management activities
Equipment for   *     Adequate field equipment     *Develop strategy for financial
field activities   improve performances in field   sustainability and allocate enough
activities (rangers activity,      resources for field equipment
monitoring)
Project         *     Respecting procurement       *Establish clear procurement schedule
management    procedures reduces contracting       and responsibilities
times for project items
- 30 -



Project impact   *       Well defined monitoring          *Establish appropriate monitoring
monitoring        indicators help to improve project      indicators and update them periodically
activities
- 31 -



