GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
^   Romania--
Danube Delta Biodiversity
-~~~~ ~  -        l 
Project Document
August 1994.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
THE WORLD BANK*



-~~~~~~~~~
GEF Docunmentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer.'The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band ~-provide extended project-
specrfic information. The implementing agency-responsible for each project is identified-by
its logo on the cover of the doicument. -
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Globa[ Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank-
1818 H Strejet. NW
Washington, DC 20433
-TeJephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256     - 



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Romanian Leu
US$1 = Lei 450 on January 1, 1993
US$1 = Lei 735 on July 1, 1993
US$1 = Lei 1,075 on December 1, 1993
US$1 = Lei 1,304 on December 22, 1993
1$USS1 = Lei 1,683 on July It, 1994
MEASUREMENTS
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS
AR          -    Apele Romane RA
BOD         -    Biological Oxygen Demand
CRIM        -    Environmental Radioactivity Research Laboratory
DDBRA       -    Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Administration
DDI         -    Danube Delta Institute
EBRD        -    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EPA         -    Environmental Protection Agency
GEF         -    Global Environmental Facility
GIS         -    Geographic Information System
GOR         -    Government of Romania
GPS         -    Global Positioning System
IC          -    Research Institute
ICBP        -    International Council for Bird Preservation
ICIM        -    Institute for Environmental Research and Engineering
IGFCOT    -    Institute for Geodesy, Photogrammetry and Cadastral Planning
IGG         -    Institute of Geology and Geophysics
IMH         -    Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology
ISPIF       -    Institute for Studies and Design for Land Reclamation
IUCN        -    International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(now World Conservation Union)
IWWRB       -    International Waterfowl and Wetland Research Bureau
MOD         -    Memorandum of the Director
MWFEP    -    Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection
NGO         -    Non Government Organization
PIU         -    Project Implementation Unit
SPA         -    Specially Protected Area (of the Biosphere Reserve)
WWF         -    World Wide Fund for Nature
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Romania: January 1 - December 31
World Bank:            July 1 - June 30



I



ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Recipient:                  Government of Romania
Cofinancier:                Not Applicable *
Beneficiaries:              Ministry of Forests, Waters and Environmental Protection;
Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority; Danube Delta
Institute; Conservationists; the General Public
Amount:                     SDR 3.1 million
Terms:                      Grant
Financing Plan:             GEF      US$4.5 million equivalent
GOR      US$0.3 million equivalent plus contributions
in kind
Total    US$4.8 million equivalent
Economic Rate of Return:    Not Applicable
Map:                        IBRD 25411
*   A number of organizations are providing technical services free of salary costs (World
Wildlife Fund, International Council for the Preservation of Birds, Universities of
Georgia and Massachusetts).



I



ROMANUA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Background
1.       The Danube Delta is one of Europe's most extensive wetlands remaining in a
natural state. It forms a unique series of interrelated ecosystems, with its large reed beds,
maze of tributaries, white willows and poplars, canals and lakes rich with aquatic plants, and
dunes with their mosaic of forests and semi-arid grasslands. The Delta also plays a role as a
chemical and physical filtering system for flood water flowing over the river banks. The
Delta ecosystem covers about 600,000 ha. Of this, 450,000 ha lie within Romania and the
rest in Ukraine.
2.       The Danube Delta is an important wildlife habitat, and has the largest number of
birds of any South European wetland. It is a key area for passage of migrants and wintering
birds, when the number of winter wildfowl may exceed 2 million. Over 320 species of birds
are found in the Delta, and over 170 species breed there. The Delta contains most of the
world's population of the endangered pygmy cormorant, 5% of the world's population of
dalmatian pelicans and more than 50% of the palearctic breeding population of the more
common pelican. The slender billed curlew, red breasted goose and the lesser white-fronted
goose are globally threatened species that use the area during migration or in winter. The
Delta also has large populations of several colonial waterbird species that are not yet in
danger of extinction, but whose populations have recently declined drastically, especially in
Europe, including the smew, ferruginous duck and red breasted pochard.
3.       The Delta is an economic resource. The Sulina channel, straightened for shipping
in the 1890s, provides the basis for important navigation and port activities. About a third of
the 75 species of fish are exploited by commercial fishing. The Delta also attracts tourism,
and produces reeds that can be harvested. But the Delta's status as a wildlife habitat and
economic resource is at risk because its resources have not been sustainably managed. One
indication of this is the decrease in the catch of migratory (sturgeon, shad) and other fish
(carp, pike, zander, bream), once a major resource. For example, the annual sturgeon catch
has declined from 1,000 tons in the 1930s to the current 10 tons. This has made it more
difficult to earn a livelihood and has led to a decline in the number of full-time fishermen.
In the last 20 years, the population of the Romanian part of the Delta has declined by 30%,
to an estimated 15,000 people; it is thus very sparsely populated. Fish catch in the Black
Sea has also declined dramatically.
4.       There are several reasons for the decline. There has been interference in the
natural hydrology cycle by the construction of canals, dikes, and polders in the Delta and of
dams upstream, with no analysis of their environmental impacts, as well as by embankment
of the upstream Danube flood plain. There have been ill-conceived attempts at intensive
agriculture, fish farming, and forestry development, leading to changes in ecosystems and
habitats and long-term declines in productivity. The habitat has been damaged by
inappropriate harvesting methods, such as the use of heavy machinery to harvest reeds.
Other causes for the decline include pollution (including eutrophication caused by fertilizers



-2-
applied upstream of the Delta and pollution from upstream urban and industrial activities)
over fishing and limited, but uncontrolled, tourism.
5.       In 1990 the Romanian government, in recognition of the importance of the area,
declared an international biosphere reserve over 590,000 ha of the Delta, adjacent coastline
and water bodies, and established the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority (DDBRA)
to address the problems facing the area. 53,000 ha are currently under strict protection. A
governmental decree also stopped all future reclamation works, banned sand mining and
established a policy that gives priority to conservation in the Delta. In late 1991, the
biosphere reserve was declared a World Heritage site by the World Heritage Commnittee
which operates under the auspices of UNESCO. Romania has a total of 1.14 million ha of
protected areas. The significance of the Delta, comprising about half of this total, is
apparent.
6.       In September 1990 a team coordinated by the IUCN (International Union for the
Conservation of Nature) investigated the conservation status of the Delta. This exercise led
to the first International Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Planning Seminar in September
1991. The seminar generated strong support from a range of international organizations,
bilateral donors, and environmental NGOs for developing a program for long-term
conservation and management of the Delta. The seminar also produced the components of a
management plan including establishment of legal and administrative objectives, and
conservation, socioeconomic, research and monitoring and public awareness objectives for
improved Delta management. The functions and structure of the DDBRA were clarified in
Law 82/1993, approved in December 1993. The EBRD, through a ECU 0.73 million grant,
has provided assistance in improving the administrative framework and developing a
management plan. The proposed GEF project complements this program by focusing on the
technical aspects of biodiversity conservation and on protected area management.
7.       Project objectives. The project aims to protect the Romanian Delta ecosystems.
It would contribute to the conservation of biodiversity within the Delta, strengthening the
capacity of DDBRA and the Danube Delta Institute (DDI), a research institute whose
primary role is to conduct research on the delta ecosystems on behalf of DDBRA. It would
enable DDBRA and DDI to monitor and manage protected areas effectively, working with
local community groups to ensure sustainable resource use, and restoring some wetlands to
their natural condition. An innovative feature comprises testing various approaches to
wetland restoration and monitoring their impact. The project must be seen within the context
of three other GEF supported projects being developed for the region. The first is the GEF
project for the Ukrainian part of the Danube Delta, which parallels this project. The second
is the Danube River Basin Environrment Program, a project supported by several donors,
which aims to develop a plan for improved environmental management of the basin, reducing
pollutant loads and strengthening institutions. The third is the Black Sea Management
Project, coordinated by UNDP and the Bank, which aims also to prepare a plan for
improved, coordinated management by all riparians, together with priority investments. The
Danube Basin, Delta and Black Sea are closely related ecosystems, and an objective of all



-3-
three projects is to demonstrate the value of a coordinated approach to resolving water
pollution and biodiversity problems with transborder linkages.
8.  Proiect description. The project includes the following components:
(a)  Strengthening the wardens department, to support nature protection, surveys,
public awareness and nature interpretation in the Delta, through the provision of
equipment to enhance mobility and surveying, infrastructure and training
(US$1.48 million);
(b)  Monitoring, through improved population and species inventories, ecosystem
surveys, and development of an integrated database using GIS technology to
provide the basis for development of resource management plans (US$0.64
million);
(c)  Restoration of abandoned fish and agricultural polders to their natural condition
with impact and hydrological monitoring, together with applied research into reed
restoration (US$0.57 million);
(d)  Protection of a lake from direct inflow of Danube water; willow planting; village
woodlots; pilot protection of fish fingerlings from an irrigation pumping station
intake; removal of some deteriorating metal structures for aesthetic enhancement;
sturgeon propagation following studies; and establishment of a small grants fund
to fund research proposals with special focus on management of buffer zones
(US$1.18 million);
(e)  Public awareness, including support to the wardens to work with schools and local
communities, support to the DDBRA in production of public awareness material,
and support to local NGOs to enable them to expand their public awareness
activities (US$0.15 million);
(f)  Assistance with coordination of activities betweeni Ukraine and Romania, and
limited technical assistance for project management, especially for procurement
and disbursement (US$0.19 million).
A. Implementation
9.       The project would be implemented jointly by DDBRA and DDI. DDBRA would
have primary responsibility for the components for Wardens Strengthening, Public
Awareness (together with the local NGOs: ProDelta, Friends of the Delta, ECOS and the
Romanian Ornithological Society) and regional coordination, while DDI would have primary
responsibility for ecosystems monitoring, and pilot polder and wetland restoration. DDI
would assist with purchase of stream gauging equipment on behalf of Apele Romane, the
national water hydrologic monitoring agency, which undertakes Danube river discharge



-4 -
measurements. DDBRA will contract for civil works connected with wetland restoration on
behalf of DDI.
10.      Assistance in implementation of certain components would be provided by a
variety of specialized agencies; World Wildlife Fund Germany through the Auen Institute for
Floodplain Ecology would assist in polder restoration in Cernovka and Babina, and in public
awareness. "BirdLife" (the International Council for Bird Preservation) would assist in bird
monitoring and public awareness. The Dutch Rijkswaterstaat would assist in polder
restoration in Holbina, and in vegetation mapping. The University of Massachusetts would
assist in training in use of Geographical Information Systems, and development of an
integrated database using GIS. The University of Georgia would assist in research into reed
restoration. The Extension Service of Regensburg would assist in sturgeon propagation if
studies show this approach to be viable in the Delta. All of these organizations have
established contacts with the DDI and DDBRA and the GEF project would build on these. A
research grants committee would be established to review research proposals and assess their
suitability for qualifying for funding.
11.      A Project Implementation Committee, composed of experts from DDBRA, DDI
and MWFEP, has been established which would have day-to-day responsibility for project
implementation. A Project Advisory Committee would meet periodically to advise on and
review implementation. A Research Grants Committee would review research applications
under the small grants component. MWFEP would provide overall guidance on project
coordination. It would assure linkages between the Black Sea and Danube River GEF
projects, and would ensure participation by other Romanian environmental institutes as
necessary.
12.      Proiect sustainability. GOR have committed the budget for an increase in the
DDBRA staff to 260 over the next five years; staff currently on the payroll are 170. The
management plan being prepared with EBRD/IUCN assistance includes proposals for
increasing the revenue sources of the DDBRA, through charges on tourist and other
activities. Existing DDI staff could implement the components of the project for which they
are responsible. Sufficient budget has also been allocated for operating costs, and for other
activities of the DDBRA related to, but not financed by, the project. The situation will be
reviewed closely during project implementation.
13.      Lessons from previous Bank involvement. In view of the recent political changes
in Romania, and the long hiatus in Bank operations before that, it is difficult to draw valid
lessons from previous Bank involvement. Experience with recent operations indicates,
however, the importance of government commitment, and the need for a very clear
understanding on the part of implementing agencies of the procedures for procurement and
project administration. Experience with biodiversity projects in other countries emphasizes
the importance of securing the support of local communities for conservation programs, and
the need to adapt project design to the implementation capacity of local institutions.



-5-
14.      Rationale for GEF funding. The project forms the link between the GEF-funded
Black Sea Project and the Danube Basin Environment Programme, supported by many
donors including the GEF. These three projects together will support environmental
management of an international river basin and waterway. The Danube Delta, Europe's
largest remaining natural wetland, represents an ecosystem of international importance.
Finally, the project will contribute to two GEF principal objectives, protecting biodiversity,
and improving management of international waters.
15.      Community involvement. Local communities would be involved in the project in
many ways. Park wardens are recruited from villages in the Delta, anld are very much part
of local communities. A major part of their work comprises public awareness activities and
these would be supported under the project. Local communities are involved in bird
monitoring, with the support of the local authorities, local NGOs including the Romanian
Ornithological Society and an international NGO "BirdLife. " This work is ongoing, it would
be further supported under the project, and its output would be an ornithological management
plan. A second local NGO Prodelta, currently working with villages and school groups to
develop better understanding about the Delta, would also be supported. Park infrastructure
would be constructed using local materials and building techniques and contracted to Delta
inhabitants.
16.      Project monitoring and evaluation. Project achievement iniicators would be
established and integrated into progress reports. These would include "physical"
achievement indicators such as numbers of wardens trained, publication of ecosystem
monitoring results, maps, preparation of management plans and completion of wetland
restoration works; biodiversity/ecosystem impact monitoring is also built into the polder and
wetland restoration components, and the results would be published. A project
implementation review would be undertaken jointly by GOU and the Bank after 2-1/2 years
of project implementation. Regional coordination meetings would also provide an
opportunity for sharing the results of this pilot wetlands biodiversity restoration project with
other Black Seas riparians.
17.      At Negotiations, the Recipient agreed to or confirmed the following:
(a)  the organizational arrangements for project implementation outlined above,
including appropriate project reporting and monitoring arrangements;
(b)  the procurement and disbursement and project accounts arrangements outlined in
Schedule B of the MOD;
(c)  coordination of project activities with the Ukrainian and other regional and
international authorities, and sharing of research results ancl management plans;
(d)  recruitment by DDBRA of three additional staff: a training specialist, a public
awareness specialist, and a natural resources assessment specialist by March 31,



-6-
1995 together with recruitment of 20 wardens per year through the five-year
project period; and
(e)  adequate budgetary allocation to fund the Romanian contribution to project
costs.
18.      Environmental aspeets. The project would have a positive impact on the Delta
ecosystems, and would prepare the way for more extensive wetlands restoration, and
sustainable use of the Delta's resources. Strengthening of the DDBRA warden's department
is expected to protect the fauna against the expected increase of foreign tourists and in
particular against foreign hunting interests. The local population (which is very small) have
participated in preparation of the Delta Management Plan being prepared with the assistance
of EBRD/IUCN. Their concerns will further be taken into account in the public awareness/
community involvement activities to be financed under the GEF project. The project has
been rated Category C.
19.      Proiect benefits. The project will support local authorities in their effort to
develop integrated management of the Delta as a series of interrelated ecosystems, to protect
and enhance its biodiversity while providing for the improved well-being of the local
population. Strengthening of the warden's department and improved public awareness will
improve overall park management; improvement of monitoring and research will increase
understanding of the processes in the Delta and assist better management planning; pilot
wetland restoration and its monitoring will prepare the way for enhancement of biodiversity
on a more substantial scale, and will permit sustainable economic activities in fisheries, reed
harvesting and ecotourism.
20.      Proiect risks. Principal risks include the capacity of the project implementing
agencies to execute the project satisfactorily, and the limited impact that the Danube Delta
project can have on biodiversity without improvements in the Danube river water quality.
The first risk is addressed through the provision of low cost technical assistance, with which
the Romanian authorities are familiar, and through assistance with procurement. The second
risk is addressed in part through focusing on the areas where the project can have an impact,
including improved protected area management and ecosystems restoration. Improvement in
upstream Danube river water quality is largely beyond the reach of this project.
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 25, 1994



-7-
SCHEDULE A
ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
%      % Total
(US$ '000)             Foreign     Base
Local   Foreign    Total     Exchange   Costs
COMPONENTS:
1. Strengthening of the
Wardens Department       966.8    516.0   1,482.7         35        35
2 Ecosystem Monitoring       97.1    544.4    641.5          85        15
3. Polder Restoration       284.8    290.1    574.9          50        14
4. Pilot Wetland Restoration   805.1    371.5   1,176.6      32        28
5. Public Awareness          21.5     134.2    155.7         86         4
6. Management and
Coordination              13.9    178.8    192.7          93         5
TOTAL                     2,189.1   2,034.9   4,224.0        48       100
Physical Contingencies      218.9    203.5    422.4          48        10
Price Contingencies          87.7      51.6     139.4        37         3
GRAND TOTAL               2.495.    2.290.0   4.785.8        48       113
Financing Plan (US$ million)
Local      Foreign      T.otal
GOR                    0.3          0.0         0.3
GEF                    2.2          2.3         4.5
2.5         2.3         4.8



-8-
SCHEDULE B
ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Procurement and Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Procurement Methods (US$ million)
ICB          LCB          Other         Total
Equipment & Supplies                           -            1.6"          1.6
(Financed by GEF)                                          (1.5)        (1.5)
Vehicles & Vessels                             -            0.42/         0.4
(Financed by GEF)                                          (0.4)        (0.4)
Civil Works                      -            0.6           0.53'         1.1
(Financed by GEF)                            (0.5)        (0.5)         (1.0)
TA, Training                                   -            1.24'         1.2
(Financed by GEF)                                          (1.2)        (1.2)
Operating Costs                  -             -            0.55'         0.5
(Financed by GEF)                                          (0.4)        (0.4)
Total                       -             0.6          4.2           4.8
-           (0.5)         (4.0)        (4.5)
International shopping US$0.8 million, local shopping US$0.5 million, direct purchase US$0.3 million.
2/ Local shopping (US$0.2 million) and international shopping (US$0.2 million).
3 LCB (US$0.6 million), force account (US$0.16 million) and local shopping (US$0.34 million).
4/ IBRD guidelines.
5/ Procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement Categories
Categorv            GEF Grant Allocation                  Amount (US$M equivalent)
Goods               100% of foreign expenditures;                    1.8
100% of the ex-factory price of
domestically produced goods,
90% of other goods purchased locally
Civil Works         90% of expenditures                              0.9
TA Training         100% of expenditures                             1.1
Recurrent Costs     80% of expenditures                              0.4
Unallocated                                                         0.3
Disbursement Schedule (US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year          FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99
Annual                      1.6      1.1       1.0       0.5       0.5
Cumulative                  1.6      2.7       3.7       4.2       4.5



-9 -
SCHEDULE C
ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                 18 months
(b)   Prepared by:                           Ministry of Waters, Forests and
Environmental Protection, Danube Delta
Biosphere Reserve Authority and Danube
Delta Institute, with the assistance of
Consultants
(c)   First Bank mission:                    May 1992
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:           October 1993
(e)   Negotiations:                          July 1994
(f)   Planned date of Effectiveness:         September 1994
(g)   List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:       None



I



GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
TECHNICAL REPORT
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
August 25, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
Eumpe and Centa Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Romanian Leu
US$1 =  Lei 450 on January 1, 1993
US$1 =  Lei 735 on July 1, 1993
US$1 =  Lei 1,075 on December 1, 1993
US$1 =  Lei 1,304 on December 22, 1993
US$1 =  Lei 1,683 on July 16, 1994
MEASUREMENTS
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS
AR          -    Apele Romane RA
BOD         -    Biological Oxygen Demand
CRIM        -    Environmental Radioactivity Research Laboratory
DDBRA       -    Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Administration
DDI         -    Danube Delta Institute
EBRD        -    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EPA         -    Environmental Protection Agency
GEF         -    Global Environmental Facility
GIS         -    Geographic Information System
GOR         -    Government of Romania
GPS         -    Global Positioning System
IC          -    Research Institute
ICBP        -    International Council for Bird Preservation
iCIM        -    Institute for Environmental Research and Engineering
IGFCOT    -    Institute for Geodesy, Photogrammetry and Cadastral Planning
IGG         -    Institute of Geology and Geophysics
IMH         -    Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology
ISPIF       -    Institute for Studies and Design for Land Reclamation
IUCN        -    International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(now World Conservation Union)
IWWRB       -    International Waterfowl and Wetland Research Bureau
MOD         -    Memorandum of the Director
MWFEP    -    Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection
NGO         -    Non Government Organization
PIU         -    Project Implementation Unit
SPA         -    Specially Protected Area (of the Biosphere Reserve)
WWF         -    World Wide Fund for Nature
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Romania: January I - December 31
World Bank:             July I - June 30



GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
TECHNICAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND AND SETTNG   ............................
A.  Significance of the Danube Delta  .........................   1
B.  Flora and Fauna  ...................................   2
C.  Hydrology ........................................ 4
D.  Economic Activity  ................................... 7
II.  INSTITUTIONAL SETTING AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  ...                        ...... 9
A.  Protected Area Management in Romania ...................... 9
B.  The Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection ...         .... 10
C.  Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Administration  ................ 10
D.  Danube Delta Institute ................................ 11
E.  Local and Other Organizations ...........................  11
F. Donor Involvement . .................................. 12
G.  Regional Linkages and Justification for GEF Funding ....           ......... 13
III. THE PROJECT ........................................ 13
A. Project Summary .................................... 13
B. Detailed Project Description             ..                                    14
1. Institutional Strengthening of the Ecological
Warden's Department ...................  14
2. Monitoring ................... 18
- Ecosystem  Surveys and Population/Species Inventories  ....       .... 23
- GIS and Data Management ......................... 23
-  Hydraulic Monitoring ............................ 23
3. Pilot Polder Restoration to Natural Conditions and
Reed Restoration Research ........................... 35
4. Ecosystems Restoration ............................. 39
5. Public Awareness and Community Involvement ....               .......... 42
6. Regional Initiatives, Coordination and
Management Assistance ............................. 45



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Pag No.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS  .....................................  47
A. Project Costs and Financing  .........           ................... 47
B.  Procurement ......................................  48
C. Disbursements and Accounts  .........            ................... 50
V.   ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION   ................... 51
A. Implementation ..................................... 51
B.  Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision  ..................... 52
C.  Public Awareness/Community Participation ................... 53
D. Project Benefits and Risks  ..........           ................... 53
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED  .               ..............................  54
Annexes
1. Detailed Project Costs
2. Draft Legislation for DDBRA
3.. Existing and Proposed Structure of DDBRA and DDI
4. Magnitude and Frequency of Water Levels Recorded at Tulcea, 1932-92
5.  Implementation Plan
6. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
7. Inflation and Exchange Rates Forecasts
8. Documents Available in Project File
IBRD No. 25411



GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
TECHNICAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND AND SETITNG
A. Significance of the Danube Delta
1.01    The Danube Delta is the largest and least damaged wetland complex in Europe,
covering about 600,000 ha, including 450,000 ha in Romania and the rest in Ukraine. It is
an extensive network of river tributaries, canals, lakes and reed swamps as well as forests,
meadows, sandy grasslands and dunes, which together form an unique mosaic of terrestrial
and aquatic habitats, each supporting a rich biodiversity of flora and fauna species. The
Romanian part of the Delta was declared a Biosphere Reserve in 1990, the Reserve covering
591,000 ha. 53,000 ha. are strictly protected, and 103,000 ha. are classified as a marine
buffer zone. The area of the terrestrial buffer zone has not yet been gazetted.
1.02    The Delta exhibits a classic Delta triangular formation with branching tributaries
of the Danube River extending out from an apex to nearly 100km in length and width before
discharging into the Black Sea. The Delta has a temperate to continental climate with local
influences from extensive water surfaces and marsh vegetation as well as strong north-
easterly winds from the Black Sea. The Delta acts as a large-scale filtering system between
the Danube River and the internal lakes. The Delta's ecological integrity and health are
dependent on the condition of these dynamic water courses.
1.03    In spite of pressure from grazing, silviculture, hydrological alteration and
agriculture during this century, the Danube Delta still supports diverse and large populations
of fish, birds and rare mammals. There are over 75 species of fish belonging to 22 families,
most of which are freshwater, but many Black Sea species rely on the Delta for breeding and
survival of juveniles. Approximately 320 bird species live in the Delta at various times of
the year and several represent globally threatened species.
1.04    The Delta's terrestrial and aquatic habitats support a diversity of vegetation.
White willow hardwoods line the river tributaries while the coastal dune systems support ash-
oak forests. Most significant to the waterfowl and mankind are the reedbeds, the most
extensive in Europe. The same pressures cited above are also threatening the vegetation,
which in turn affects the fauna.
1.05    The Danube Delta is an integrated system at every level -- ecological,
hydrological, economic and cultural, that must be respected and managed as such for long-
term sustainability of the natural resources it provides and the people who depend on it.
Despite production pressures the Delta remains largely intact, especially when compared to



-2-
other wetland ecosystems in the region. The changes in government policy since the
revolution offer scope for conservation of the biodiversity of the Delta through a combination
of protected area management, small-scale economic activity and sound scientific research.
Conservation and environmentally-based resource management of the Delta warrant
assistance from the GEF in light of its biodiversity and international waters significance.
B. Flora and Fauna
1.06     The vegetation can be characterized into three distinct zones: (a) the fluvial zone
with natural levees along the Danube river tributaries and canals, (b) the transition zone of
murky, lagoonal backswamps, extensive fen peat deposits and large, well-filtered, clear-water
lakes; and (c) the coastal zone with sandy beach-barrier complexes including dunes, spits
and islands that have been deposited from north to south by coastal drift in the Black Sea.
1.07     Although forests occupy only about 5 % of the Delta area, they are significant and
have characteristic species in both the riverine fluvial zone and sandy coastal zone. White
wilow, Salix alba and S. fragilis, dominate the fluvial zone since they require periodic
flooding for regeneration, while poplars, thrive on higher ground beyond the river's edge.
The ridges and depressions of the coastal dunes support a wide range of discrete forest
habitats that vary with groundwater fluctuations, dune height and humidity, including oak-ash
hardwood forests, lianas, shrubs and grasslands. The willow forests are nesting sites for
colonies of egrets, herons, ibises and raptors such as falcons and eagles. The dry grasslands
in the depressions between large dunes support breeding populations of curlews. The sandy
islands of the coastal fringe are used for feeding by terns, gulls and Dalmatian pelicans.
1.08     The freshwater lakes and marsh systems in the transition zone support a range of
macrophytes including several species of water-lilies and are largely bound by extensive reed
beds. These reedbeds represent the largest closed unit of reeds in Europe, reaching heights
up to four meters. The reeds also form "plaurs" - floating islands - throughout the lakes that
provide safe homes for many animal species. These extensive lake and marsh systems are
the main feeding habitats for most of the Delta's birds including bitterns, marsh harriers,
rails, nesting colonies of pelicans, egrets and herons. Migratory ducks and geese use the
lakes for feeding and roosting in autumn and winter. Diving ducks feed on benthic mollusks,
cormorants dive for fish, while geese which feed on farnlands rely on the lakes to roost.
During the cold winter months the brackdsh lakes closer to the sea freeze less frequently than
the interior freshwater lakes, making the Delta a key northern over-wintering spot. Plants
also offer an ideal habitat for a number of animal species, and the one of the last refuges for
the European mink, the wildcat and the freshwater offer.
1.09     Grasslands are dominated by two types: the Pannonic grasslands bordering Lake
Razim, and the Xerothermic grasslands of the coastal barrier area. Only odd pockets of the
former remain, due to intensive cultivation. Popina island on Lake Razim, however,
supports a good example of this community. The Xerothermic grasslands include Cynodon
dacrylon as the inain specief and a herbzcoous component whiclh includes Euphorbia
seguierina, Oi,.osina arenerLr and Polygonun arenarium.



- 3-
1.10     The dune forests, in particular the ash-oak forests, are threatened from the
introduction of exotic species which alter community composition, from a high density of
cattle grazing which prevents forest regeneration, and from changes in groundwater regimes
due to canal construction. The extensive reed beds of the Delta have traditionally been
harvested for thatching, fencing, fuel and cattle litter. Speculation on intensive exploitation
for a cellulose industry in the 1950s led to the construction of polders and use of heavy
machines for harvesting. These machines damaged the plants in such a way that regeneration
was impossible. Fortunately such practices have stopped and only light equipment and hand
techniques are used today.
1.11     Results of systematic bird counts in the Delta have not been published; however,
there is information on distribution and number of breeding and nesting colonies of
waterfowl since the 1930s, especially for the western side of the Delta. While it is difficult
to estimate changes in total population size without long time series data, there is clear
evidence of species decline du'e primarily to loss of habitat through conversion of wetlands
into agriculture and fish farming areas. Some waterbird species forage far away from their
nesting site, therefore damage to a wetland habitat in one part of the Delta can affect the
food availability for birds nesting a great distance away. The wetlands that remain have also
deteriorated in quality due to changes in flooding regimes, upstream pollution and draining of
floodlands which used to remove excessive nutrients from the river water. Such
eutrophication has resulted in a decline in fish, invertebrate communities (e.g. bivalves) and
submerged macrophytes, all food sources for the waterfowl. Pollutants such as
organochlorines and heavy metals in the water and substrata may be negatively affecting shell
thickness and tissues of the birds and therefore reduce breeding success of some birds,
especially raptors, pelicans and cormorants. Grazing cattle trample eggs and disturb nesting
places. Tourism and hunting, if not managed in an environmentally sensitive manner,
disturb waterbird colonies. Nevertheless, the Danube Delta has a considerably larger number
of breeding bird species than the other south European Deltas. These include the pygmy
cormorant, half the Palearctic breeding population of the white pelican and five percent of
the world population of Dalmatian pelican. The Danube Delta is an important area for
passage migrants and wintering birds. These include the endangered slender billed curlew
and red-breasted goose, smew, ferruginous duck and red-breasted pochard. Numbers of
wildfowl in winter may total 2 million or more.
1.12     As indicated earlier, the Delta's fish communities are rich with 75 species
representing 22 families, one-third of which have traditionally been exploited for commercial
fishing. Fish communities in the Delta's three main branches include migratory species of
sturgeon and shad, as well as semi-migratory species of carp and bream, using the
floodplains as preferred spawning grounds. Since these floodplains have been cut off from
the Danube River by dykes, fish have declined in productivity, catch size, species diversity
and commercial value. For example, in the early 1900s over 1,000 tons of sturgeon were
caught each year in Romania, while only 20 tons were landed in 1989. While predatory
high-commercial value species as sturgeon and shad have declined, the numbers of non-
predatory species has increased. The production of herbaceous fish species from present-day
fish farms has overall not been very successful.



- 4-
1.13     Reduction in species richness and annual catch is due to overall habitat degradation
caused by a interrelated factors including: polder construction, dams, eutrophication due to
dykes, loss of aquatic vegetation, industrial and organic pollution from upstream, declining
flood levels and overfishing. Polders, canals and dykes alter normal spawning regimes and
offspring have a difficult time reaching deep water sites during the winter.
C. Hydroloyg
1.14    The Danube is one of the largest rivers in Europe with a catchment of 805,300kn2
and an average discharge of 6,300m3/sec. The apex of the Delta is just upstream from the
town of Tulcea (Romania), where the Danube divides into the northern Chilia branch, while
the southern branch divides just downstream from Tulcea into the central Sulina, and the
southern Sfintu Gheorghe branches. The three branches transport respectively 60%, 21%
and 19% of the total discharge at low (normal) river levels, and 72%, 11%, and 17% at high
(flood) levels. The Chilia branch forms the border with the Ukraine, where at its mouth the
most active Delta formnation takes place, advancing into the Black Sea at about 50m per
annum.
1.15    But for the high relative humidity caused by the large water surface, the climate of
the Delta would be similar to that of the surrounding steppes: mean annual rainfall ranges
from 425mm in the west to 325 mm in the east, while evapotranspiration is in the range of
950-1,000mm per year. The rainfall shows large variations, e.g. 123mm was recorded in
Sulina for all of 1920. The strong winds experienced in the spring and autumn, from the
north east at the coast, and from the south inland at Tulcea contribute to the high
evapotranspiration As a result of the prevailing north easterly wind, there is transport of
beach material towards the south. In the absence of such material, or because of man-made
barriers such as breakwaters, coastal erosion takes place (at Sulina), while at the mouth of
the Sf. Gheorghe branch a slight accretion occurs, probably from the higher flood discharges
through that channel. Peak discharges occur in the period April-May (May mean monthly
flow is 8,900m3/sec) as a result of snowmelt and spring rains in the catchment, and lowest
discharge (mean monthly flow of 4,200m3/sec) in October. Spring is the period when floods
occur and over-bank flow takes place. Because there are no tides in the Black Sea, drainage
is impaired and the Delta remains wet throughout the day and the year, in spite of the dry
summers. The discharge of the Danube is so large, and the Black Sea coast has such a flat
gradient, that the coastal waters are only slightly brackish.
1.16    Human intervention in the regime of the Delta started after the Crimean war in the
middle of the 19th century and was at first directed towards creating and maintaining
shipping channels in the three major branches, followed by canalisation of some channels
linking the internal lakes to the major branches. The first polder was constructed in the late
1930s. Major interior canal building and polder construction took place between 1948 and
1965, but polder construction continued right up to the revolution in 1989. Upstream of the
Delta, construction of flood protection banks on the left bank took place in the early 1960s,
while dams on the Romanian tributaries, the Iron Gates dam, and irrigation intakes along the



Danube took place between 1969 and 1989. Finally in 1990, the Black Sea shipping canal
was completed, linking the harbor of Constanta directly with the Danube.
Flooding
1.17    The magnitude, duration and pattem of flooding is fundamental to the ecological
processes going on in the Delta. In wet years, overtopping of the banks occurs over
substantial lengths from a few days to up to four months. In the driest years the inundated
area will be restricted to a few swamp depressions or lakes with direct channel connections
to the main river. Inundated areas gradually return the stored water as the river level falls,
but substantial areas remain under water long after flood waters in the river have receded and
many parts remain under water for most or all of the year. The reduction in area which is
subject to the natural flooding regime is sometimes mentioned as a reason for the loss of
biodiversity. This can be for several reasons:
(a) reductions in flood water levels resulting in a reduction in the frequency that river
banks are overtopped and in the duration of flooding;
(b) disconnection of empoldered areas from the river; and
(c) interruptions to the normal direction of flow of flood waters.
1.18    The evidence about (a): a significant change in river regime, appears inconclusive.
It is stated that the construction of all the embankments upstrearn of and inside the Delta has
changed the regime of the river since about 1960. Confining the river would result in a
reduction of channel storage, causing higher flood water levels, but for a shorter duration.
However, the construction of many dams on the tributaries would counter this effect. In
Annex 4 the magnitude and duration of water levels at Tulcea are compared for the 31 year
period 1932-1962 and the 30 years 1963-1992. Whereas the average annual maximum level
for the first period was indeed a lower 318 cm against 349 cm for the second period, the
average annual duration of levels above 300 cm for the first period was 40 days/yr against 60
days/yr for the second, contrary to expectation. Mean water levels at Tulcea for the first
period were also lower than for the second,. pointing to a wetter situation in the catchment
during the second period. This is corroborated by mean annual flows observed for the entire
Danube at Isaccea station, just upstream of the Delta: for 1932-62 it was 6,352m3/sec,
against 6,595m3/sec for 1963-92.
1.19    With respect to (b), the ecological impact of empoldering an area will eliminate
inundation and transforms the area from wetland to dry land, or to a fish polder without the
nornal regime of inflow and outflow. However, the effect on the rest of the Delta will only
occur as a result of (a) and/or (c).
1.20     About (c), the effect of interrupting the normal overbank flow lines is very hard to
predict without a (costly) mathematical model. It is sometimes claimed that the loss of flood
storage due to empoldering gives rise to increases in both water level and flow velocity in the



- 6 -
main channels. If true, this could have important repercussions on the magnitude and
frequency of flooding and the balance between erosion and sediment deposition. However,
the importance of this effect appears frequently overstated. The total area of the polders
lying alongside the main river channels is 72,785ha. At l.Om depth of flooding this is
equivalent to 728 million m3 (MCM), and at an exceptional 2.0m flooding, 1,456MCM.
For the 71-year average flood discharge for the months March through July, the flood
storage foregone in those 73,000ha of polders would be equivalent to very low percentages
of the overall flood volume:
River    Monthly   Cumulative   Flood storage    Foregone
discharge   volume     volume       as % of    flow volume
malta     M  M         M         728 MCM       1.456 MCM
March     7,246     19,370       19,370         3.8%        7.6%
April     8,757     22,730      42,100          1.7%        3.4%
May       8,886     23,834      65,934          1.1 %       2.2%
June      8,263     21,423      87,357          0.8%         1.6%
July      7,009     18,774      106,131         0.7%         1.4%
The total loss of storage caused by polder construction is less than 1 % of the total flood
volume in an average year.
1.21    The dramatic reduction in the Delta's biotope, in particular of the high value
fishes, the visible increase in eutrophication as witnessed by increased algae blooms and by
measured steep increases of the nitrogen and phosphorus concentration in water samples
taken at many locations, and the increased rate of sedimentation in a number of lakes and
channels, all indicate changing conditions. However, these need not only be caused by
changes in hydrologic conditions. They are certainly also due to an increase in chemical
pollution from industry and agriculture and probably from over-fishing of certain species.
Reduction in reed growth may not only have been due to mechanical harvesting, but also
partially because a high nitrogen content in the water reduces the weight ratio between
rizomes and stalks, thus weakening the plants.
1.22    It is often stated that the Delta functions as a filter for the Black Sea. Research
has indicated that a bed with reed vegetation reduces the suspended sediment load and also
part of the dissolved nutrient load. The construction of many internal canals has resulted in
by-passing this filtration and shortening the unobstructed transport of suspended sediment to
the internal lakes of the Delta. Thus, hydraulic construction would appear to have reduced
the internal filtration effect. Floods carry the bulk of the annual sediment load. The
percentage of the flood discharge which passes unobstructed to the Black Sea through the
three main branches has not been investigated, nor how much of the stored flood water in the
Delta eventually returns to the main branches and the sea. Such informnation would be
relatively easy to collect and would confirm or refute the statement that the Delta also
functions as a filter for the Black Sea.



-7 -
1.23    The overall sediment load of the lower Danube has decreased in recent years, from
67.5million t/yr for the period 1921-60 to 52.7 million t/yr for the period 1961-1983, a
reduction of 22%. This is said to be due to the construction of dams on the tributaries, some
of which trap heavy metals and other toxic substances. It is said by some that this reduction
in sediment has led to the deterioration in reed growth and to increased coastal erosion. The
consultants preparing the Preparation Report have not discovered scientific evidence linking
decreasing sediment runoff to increased coastal erosion or to decreased reed growth.
1.24    Based on the review of information carried out for the Project Preparation Report,
it is concluded that chemical pollution of river water probably plays a much greater role in
the decrease of biodiversity then possible changes in the hydraulic regime.
1.25    High levels of heavy metals, organochlorine pesticides and phenolic compounds as
well as nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus from fertilizers) have been reported for the
Danube water. The Cousteau team (1993) showed that the major sources of pollution are at
the downstream end of the Danube basin in Romania, Bulgaria and the Ukraine.
Environmental studies are already underway in the catchments of the major Romanian
Danube tributaries to identify sources of pollution and recommend remedial measures.
D. Economic Activity
1.26    The Delta has a population of about 15,000. Population has declined over recent
years, from 22,000 in 1970, as fish catch has declined, and younger people, deterred by
transport and infrastructure deficiencies and lack of employment opportunities in the Delta,
have moved away to urban areas. Almost all the population lives in a total of 7 villages, of
which the largest, Sulina, at the mouth of the Sulina branch and a port and transshipment
centre, has about 5,500. Thus the Delta, for the most part, is very sparsely populated;
moreover the population is aging, with only 20% under 39 years in 1992, compared with
55% in 1970.
1.27    The Delta has been settled since before Roman times; traditional economic
activities included fishing, reed harvesting for thatch and other purposes, and smallscale
agriculture and animal husbandry. More recent development can be categorised in five
phases:
(a)  Creation of the Danube River commission in 1856 after the Crimean war, and
subsequent engineering works to improve navigation, specifically through the
straightening of the Sulina channel: this has increased the velocity of water and
hence sediment flow, and the channel must be dredged several kilometres into the
Black Sea to remain navigable. Despite the present low use of this channel for
shipping (due to a wrecked vessel which partially blocks the channel and has not
been removed since 1991), as well as current economic difficulties, and the
existence of the Constanta canal to the south, navigation will continue to be an
important economic activity in the Delta.



(b) Creation of protected areas starting in 1930. These totalled five by 1956, with an
area of 40,000ha; presently there are 10 protected areas covering 52,000 ha.
(c) Proposals to develop the Delta, and the construction of pilot polders in the 1930s
and 1940s; of particular significance during this period was the development of
mechanical reed harvesting, in order to provide raw materials for a cellulose
factory at Braila, completed in 1958. By 1965 63,000 hectares had been
empoldered for reed production, and production was 226,000 tonnes. After this,
production fell rapidly, to 55,000 tonnes in 1975 and 33,000 tonnes in 1993.
Polderisation prevented the free flow of water necessary to healthy development,
and mechanical harvesting apparently damaged the reed rhizomes, inhibiting
growth; the Braila factory resorted to wood as its raw material. Conversion of
reed polders for agriculture and fisheries also began during this period.
(d) Preparation and implementation of the 1975-90 Complex Economic Plan for the
Delta, with the following targets:
Area of Polders (ha)
1975          1993   1995 (targets)
Agriculture      6,000        39,974       97,000
Fislheries      29,000        44,487       52,000
Forestry             0         6,442       29,000
Source:  Pons 1992 and DDBRA 1/200 000 map 1993.
A number of economic companies were formed to exploit the developed land,
including 11 fisheries companies and 5 agriculture companies. These companies
employ about 5,700 people, including 4,000 Delta residents.
Production from the polderised land has in general been very disappointing;
production of fish from farms was only 3,710 tonnes in 1992, due to unsuitability
of areas (plaurs, peatbogs), inadequate technologies, and, more recently, lack of
funds for feed and pumping. Some 12,500 ha of fish ponds have been abandoned.
Fishing fiom natural waters is estimated at about 7,000 tonnes, and has halved
over the last few decades, with, furthermore, the composition changing to less
commercially valuable species. This has been due to overfishing, to reduced
habitat and breeding areas caused by the polderisation, as well as to declines in
water quality. Similarly, crop yields are also for the most part uneconomically low
because of unsuitable soils and low rainfall. Livestock is important: about 19,500
ha of the polderised land is used for communal grazing. Animals are also raised on
naturally occurring marshy pastures around villages, and in reedbeds. Finally



- 9-
about 6,000 ha of poplar and willow plantations have been established, in addition
to the 23,000 ha of naturally occurring forest (mostly oak and willow).
Large-scale polderisation interfered with the hydrology of the Delta and reduced
wildlife habitats; economically, furthermore, it does not appear to have been
successful.
(e) The 1989 revolution, the end of new polder development and the establishment of
the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve (DDBR) in September 1990, and its
recognition as a Ramsar site in May 1991. The DDBR covers 591,000 ha, but
about 150,000 ha of this is water.
1.28     In addition to navigation, fishing and agriculture, tourism has been of some
significance in the Delta. There were a total number of 161,200 tourist-nights spent in and
around the Delta in 1991, of which 80% comprised Romanian visitors. Tourism declined in
1992 and appears to have declined further in 1993. Accommodation is mostly of rather poor
quality. There are opportunities for expanding tourism; however, these must be carefully
regulated -- particular care is necessary in issuing hunting licenses.
1.29     An economic survey was made of the Delta in the summer of 1993 with the
assistance of the EBRD financed Technical Cooperation Project (see para 2.03), which
provides a picture of present economic activities and potential.
1.30     While it is clear that the Delta ecosystems have deteriorated over the past years,
this project can address only those problems which can be solved within the Delta itself. In
particular a principal cause of the decline in water quality and eutrophication is due to heavy
nutrient content of the Danube water entering the Delta. This problem will be addressed
through the Environmental Program for the Danube Basin River, also financed by the GEF,
but it will take many years for the situation to improve.
II. rNSTITUTIONAL SETTING AND PROJECT JUSlT FICATION
A. Protected Area Management in Romania
2.01     Romania has a total area of 24 million ha, of which protected areas cover only
4.8% or 1.14 million ha, comprising three biosphere reserves (2.96%), 2 national and 2
natural parks (1.68%) and 571 strictly protected areas (0.64%). The significance of the
Delta, covering 591,000 ha, is apparent. In addition to the protected areas, 30% of the forest
area of 6.5 million ha is managed for watershed protection with minimal harvesting, and the
forests support widely varied flora and fauna. Currently, management plans have not been
prepared for protected areas, and, again except for the Delta (see below) there is no system
of park wardens or rangers (though there have been forest wardens in protected areas under
the control of the Forest Administration). This lack of management has been due in the past
to fragmentation of responsibility for protected area designation and management, which is



- 10 -
gradually being overcome. Overall, the forested areas of the Carpathians, and the Danube
Delta, support ecosystems of intemational importance, of which the Romanian authorities are
fully aware. Recent institutional changes reflect the priority given to an integrated approach
to protected area and biodiversity management. Romania's protected areas were briefly
described in the 1992 Bank Environmental Strategy Report for Romania, and the FAO/Bank
Forestry Sector Report. Overall, to date Bank environment sector dialogue has given less
priority to protected area or natural resource management than to industrial pollution issues
and there have been less focus overall on environmental issues than in Ukraine.
B. The Ministry of Waters. Forests and Environmental Protection
2.02     The Ministry has three departments, as indicated in its title. Institutes relevant to
the Delta in the Department of Water Resources Conservation and Management include
(i) Apele Romane, the Romanian Water Authority established in 1991, responsible for water
supply, but also for rainfall and climate, river level, discharge and water quality monitoring,
(ii) The Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology (IMH), also responsible for river flow,
climate and groundwater monitoring, and (iii) The Institute for Environmental Research and
Engineering (ICIM), responsible for environmental assessment, hydraulics and geotechnical
engineering. The Department for Environmental Protection (with directorates for
Environmental monitoring, nature Conservation and Ecological Reconstruction) also has three
organisations of central importance; (i) The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), with
offices in each of the 41 counties, and until December 1992 responsible for monitoring water
quality, (ii) The Danube Delta Institute (DDI-- see para 2.05) originally established in 1932;
and (iii) The Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Administration, established in 1989 to
administer the Biosphere Reserve (see para 2.03). The responsibilities of the DDBRA have
been established by decree, and legally confirmed by Law 82/1993 regarding the
establishment of the DDBR. There are overlapping responsibilities for certain activities,
particularly as regards water quality monitoring.
C. Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Administration
2.03     The DDBRA currently has an establishment of 221, of which there are 51
vacancies. Its responsibilities are described in Law 82 issued 7th December 1993 (Annex 2)
and include assessment and conservation of the genetic resources and biodiversity of the
Delta, assessment and control of appropriate levels of economic activity, preparation of
management plans, promotion of scientific research, defense of the interests of local
inhabitants together with local public administrations, promotion of public awareness, and
cooperation with other organisations. The DDBRA was divided into three departments: (i)
park inspectors (inspectors and ecological guards); (ii) economics (budget, administration and
logistics); and (iii) technical (regulations, conservation, monitoring and projects). However,
following the recommendations of the EBRD Technical Cooperation Study, the establishment
has been increased to 260, with a restructuring of the DDBRA to include 5 departments with
the great majority of the staff, as now, in the warden's department (Annex 3). These
departments include Planning and Regulation, External Relations and Education, Natural
Resource Evaluation, Wardening and Economics. The proposals have been accepted by the



- 11 -
government and budget allocations for staff increases have been made. However,
recruitment of qualified staff at the salaries offered is a constraint. The EBRD report
recommends that the DDBRA should have the status of an autonomous agency, with its own
salary structure, and some source of income from fees and licenses; it is not known whether
this is possible.
2.04     Up to the present, the Park Wardens Department, with a staff of 81 out of an
establishment of 120 is reasonably organized and operational albeit under-equipped. Under
the EBRD Technical Cooperation project a skills-gap analysis was undertaken of the staff in
DDBRA. The plan is to increase the establishment of the Wardens' Department up to 200.
The DDBRA is currently renting a building, but budget allocation has been made to construct
a new headquarters on the Danube.
D. Danube Delta Institute
2.05     The DDI, which was incorporated as the research division of the DDBRA in 1989,
reverted to its former status as a research institute within the Ministry in December 1992
(government decision No. 792) with an organizational structure according to provisions
stipulated in the Draft Research Law. With an establishment of 229, 197 staff on the
payroll, of which 50 are university graduates, compared with 25 in the DDBRA, it has
substantial expertise. It has two main departments, design (originally concerned with polder
design under the complex plan, and now much reduced in size), and research. Its structure
is described in more detail in Annex 3. Its research department is responsible for 'providing
the scientific basis for the formulation of government policy and activities pertaining to the
conservation and management of nature and natural resources of the DDBR.' Research
projects under way include assessment of fish populations, reed resources, flora, game
resources and environmental impact assessment of various activities in the Delta. Most of
the work undertaken by DDI is under contract to DDBRA. The GEF project would provide
support to the DDI through DDBRA for improved monitoring of flora, fauna and
ecosystems, and for assessing the effect of the proposed pilot wetland restoration activities.
E. Local and Other Organisations
2.06     The economic companies were discussed in para 1.27(d). In addition the Tulcea
district council, an elected body, together with the government appointed prefect, is
responsible for administration of Tulcea district, which covers most of the biosphere reserve.
Any decision of the council can be challenged by the DDBRA under law 29/90. Local NGOs
active in the Delta include PRODELTA and Friends of the Delta. Both work with local
communities promoting public awareness of the importance of the Delta and its conservation.
National NGOs with active monitoring programs include the Danube Delta Museum in
Tulcea, the Grigore Antipa Museum in Bucharest and the Ornithological Society of Romania.



- 12 -
F. Donor Involvement
2.07     Although Auen Institute of the World Wildlife Fund Germany (WWF), the Dutch
Rijkswaterstaat (Flevoland) and the American Academy of Sciences had been providing
limited assistance to research work in the Delta since 1990, the DDBRA/IUCN (International
Conservation Union) Management Objectives, produced following an international seminar
held in the Delta in September 1991, set the stage for assistance on a more substantial scale.
The seminar followed 18 months work of data analysis and consensus building and efforts to
secure international recognition for the importance of conserving the Delta. The
management objectives were presented in six broad categories: establishment of a legal
framework, an administrative and planning framework, and conservation, socio-economic,
research and monitoring and public awareness/education frameworks. The original GEF
project proposal covered all the activities included in the IUCN document (support for an
endowment fund to cover recurrent costs, staff training and technical assistance for
development of a management plan, wetland rehabilitation, better water management,
development of water models, ecological monitoring and GIS/management facilities and
infrastructure, research, and public awareness/community support).
2.08     The EBRD financed a Technical Cooperation Project for institutional strengthening
in 1992, which will continue until 1995, funding 730,000 ECU for training, technical
assistance, review of legislation and development of an integrated environmental management
plan involving community participation. The government budget is financing construction of
signposts and some wardens' stations within the delta, as well as increases in staff, and a
headquarters in Tulcea. The GEF project will focus more on the technical aspects of
biodiversity conservation, within the context of the institutional and economic development
activities of the EBRD project.
2.09     The WWF, through the German Auen Institute for Floodplain Ecology, has
provided the DDI with computer equipment and some training in interpretation of remote
sensing. It provided for the publication of a brochure produced by one of the NGOs, and it
has provided some overseas training. It has also worked with the DDI on preparing a
proposal for pilot wetland restoration (this proposal is included in the GEF financing
package), and has developed a good working relationship with the Romanian authorities.
The Rijkswaterstaat is assisting DDI with computerized vegetation mapping under a bilateral
program. The Austrian Government is considering assistance to the Romanian authorities in
developing a mathematical hydrological model for the delta which would help to assess
hydrological processes. Birdlife (formerly the International Council on Bird Preservation
(ICBP)) are assisting DDI, DDBRA and the Romanian Ornithological Society on bird
monitoring and public awareness. The American Academy of Sciences has promoted a
scientific exchange program: research proposals prepared jointly with the DDI and the
University of Georgia (USA), on applied research on reed restoration, and DDI and the
University of Massachusetts on development of a GIS mapping system, are particularly
relevant to the GEF project. The Cousteau Foundation has also done some investigatory
work in the Delta. Thus, a number of other international organizations are active in the
Delta, though mostly on a very small scale.



- 13 -
G. Regional Linkages and Justification for GEF Funding
2.10     The project proposed for Romania runs in parallel to that proposed for the Ukaaine
Danube Delta: similar methodologies for ecosystems and water monitoring will be proposed
for each, and the project will finance increased coordination between the two countries on
problems connected with the Delta.
2.11     The proposed project is also closely linked to two other GEF supported projects
currently being developed, the Danube River Basin Environment Programme, and the Black
Sea Environment Program. The Danube Basin Programme is being implemented jointly with
EBRD, UNDP, USAID, Austria, and the Netherlands and is funding several programs for
improved, regionally integrated river basin planning and management. These will improve
water quality in the Danube river and, eventually, reduce the pollution load to be absorbed
by the Delta. Danube water accounts for about half of all water entering the Black Sea, and
is thus responsible to a substantial extent for its excessive nutrient load and consequent
eutrophication. The Black Sea project includes preparation of an investment plan and aims to
establish a regional strategy for improved environmental management, linking river basin
management, coastal zone and marine resource management. It also includes a biodiversity
component. The Danube Delta project is the first biodiversity protection project to be
prepared for the Black Sea wetlands. Financing of the proposed Danube Delta Project by the
GEF is justified because of the ecological significance of the Delta, significant grounds in
itself. Within the broader regional context, it would also contribute to improve biodiversity
management of the Danube Basin, Delta and Black Sea.
MII. THE PROJECT
A. Project Summary
3.01     The project would have the overall objective of protecting and enhancing the Delta
ecosystems, contributing not only to conservation of biodiversity within the Delta, but also to
improvement of water quality in the Black Sea, and improvement of the Black Sea
ecosystems. It complements closely the institution strengthening activities supported by the
EBRD Technical Cooperation Project. Detailed project costs are indicated in Annex 1. The
project includes the following components (all costs are base costs, excluding contingencies;
November 1993 US$ prices):
(1) Strengthening the wardens department, to support nature protection, surveys,
public awareness and nature interpretation in the Delta, through the provision of
equipment to enhance mobility and surveying, infrastructure and training (US$1.48
million);
(2) Monitoring, through improved population and species inventories, ecosystems
surveys, hydrological monitoring and development of an integrated database using



- 14 -
GIS technology to provide the basis for development of resource management
plans (US$0.64 million);
(3) Pilot restoration of polders to natural conditions, with impact and hydrological
monitoring, on abandoned polders together with applied research into reed
restorations (US$0.575 million);
(4) Additional pilot wetland restoration, including protection of a lake from direct
inflow of Danube water; willow planting; village woodlots; pilot sturgeon
propagation; protection of fish from the lake Razim irrigation intake; removal of
some deteriorating metal structures for aesthetic enhancement; together with
establishment of a small grants fund to fund approved research proposals with
special focus on management of buffer zones (US$1.18 million);
(5) Public awareness, including support to the wardens to work with schools and local
communities, support to the DDBRA in production of public awareness material,
and support to local NGOs to enable them to expand their public awareness
activities (US$0.155 million); and
(6) Assistance with coordination of activities between Ukraine and Romania, and
limited technical assistance for project management, especially for procurement
and disbursement (US$0.19).
B. Detailed Proiect Description
COMPONENT 1: Institutional Strengthening of the Ecological Warden's Department
Implementing Agency: DDBRA
Cost Total: US$1,482,700
(i) Overview
3.02     The present warden's department, out of an establishment of 120, currently
consists of a Director, one Deputy, a 15-member professional "inspectorate" team to monitor
resource exploitation and an 83 member "guards corps" to patrol for illegal hunting, fishing
and forestry, as well as report on pollution and bird counts. The department divides the
Delta into 12 districts, 6,000 ha each. There are proposals to increase the guards staffing
further up to 200 over time, to meet environmental protection, monitoring and public
awareness needs throughout the Delta.
3.03     The guards are recruited from the local population, and live and work in the Delta
in isolated conditions with low pay and minimal equipment or supplies. This results in a
high turnover and difficulty in hiring staff trained beyond secondary school level. In
addition, their policing role often places them at odds with the local communities. Protected
area examples around the world increasingly illustrate that effective biodiversity protection



- 15 -
requires environmental education and community involvement as the groundwork for
enforcement measures, so people may better understand how protection may benefit, rather
than restrict, their lifestyle.
3.04     The project supports a multi-purpose guards structure, identifying the training and
equipment needs, while details on the ecosystem monitoring section and interpretive guides
section are presented in the Monitoring and Public Awareness components respectively. As
noted in Chapter 2, DDBRA have had difficulties recruiting new qualified technical staff. As
minimum, by March 31, 1995 a training specialist, natural resources assessment specialist
with knowledge of computerized systems, and public awareness specialist would need to be
recruited. At Negotiations GOR agreed to recruit these three individuals by this date [para
6.01 (e)].
3.05     The GEF Project assumes a recruitment of 20 wardens per year to bring the staff
up to 152 over 5 years, allowing for some staff turnover. At Negoiations GOR also agreed
to this recruitment schedule (para 6.01(e). The Wardens focus will be on protection
activities during the first years of the project while recruitment and training are taking place,
but in time have a much broader conservation and public awareness role.
3.06     Wardens would be responsible for activities in the 13 counties of the Delta, and
would be divided into inspection, patrol, ecological survey and recording, guiding and
infrastructure sections. Detailed costs are indicated in Annex 1.
1. Inspectors: This group would be in the Warden Department but not actually "Wardens".
They are professional scientists who carry out monitoring and compliance activities dealing
with water pollution, forest and agriculture practices, shipping impacts, etc. and integration
with national monitoring and standards program as well as those of the Black Sea and
Danube River. They would work closely with the Warden Patrol Section in familiarizing
them with the environmental standards and activities that need patrolling. They will also
work closely with the Warden Survey Unit and the DDI. The inspectors will take the lead
on guiding surveys and monitoring activities especially during the first years of the project
while the Wardens' focus on protection.
2. Patrol Section: They would be the great majority of the Department, and maintain an
enforcement role on licenses, permits and fines throughout the 13 countries, with a senior
warden for each district, and two section leaders.
3. Survey and Recording Section This team would focus on doing ongoing, routine surveys,
e.g. bird observation, would link the DDBRA with the DDI and other research organizations
and universities in surveys and inventories on wildlife and habitat status, water quality, etc.
4. Guiding Section: Approximately 30 wardens would be the main link between the Delta and
the public, interpreting both the ecological and cultural environment through talks, nature
activities both in the Delta and throughout the region, providing public awareness at all levels
and encouraging community involvement.



- 16 -
5. Infrastructure Section: This group would oversee contract works on buildings, exhibits,
observation posts, and hydrological engineering needs in a way to minimize habitat
disturbance. They would also learn from local artisans on building techniques, and would
supervise contracts for restoration of polders to wetland conditions.
(ii) Training (US$326,000)
3.07     Training to support enhancing the capacity of the existing and new staff, with an
emphasis on career development would be structured as outlined below. This is based on a
gradual expansion in scope and scale of the wardening department over the project, with an
emphasis on basic patrolling functions, and infrastructure building during the first two years
given the current need for controlling poaching and basic park protection. In-service training
would be provided in a purpose-built training boat, which would move between different
districts in the Delta to provide on-site training. More specialized roles for environmental
monitoring and guiding would be developed in the later years as well as more detailed
courses for all sections. Under the EBRD Technical Cooperation project a training plan is
being finalized. The proposed training activities in this component may be modified when
the final EBRD proposals are available.
1. Foreign Study Tours: Visits to well-managed wetland protected areas in Europe would be
organized for 8 staff: Director, 2 warden leaders and 6 section Heads, for one month during
the second year of the project. The host of the study tours will visit the Delta prior to the
overseas tours to understand the training needs of the warden teams. The DDBRA senior
staff will have had study tours through the EBRD project during the first year of the GEF
project.
2. Section Head Training Internships: Four Section Heads would work with overseas park
authorities for two months in day to day activities of the host park. This would take place
during the end of the second year of the project, once the warden units have developed.
3. Warden Foundation Course: 1 month overview course would be offered on all aspects of
wardening and park management in the Delta. This would be offered twice a year for 20
new recruits each time, beginning the first year. This would be taught by the Wardens Chief
and Training Specialist with input from the section heads.
4. Patrol Induction Year: This would begin during the second year of the project, and would
be provided for new wardens through the rest of the project. The wardens would focus on
protection activities and overall management needs. This training, together with specialized
training, forms the core of the on-the-job training, and would use the mobile boat
extensively. One field visit to another Romanian protected area and one to the Ukraine Delta
would also be provided for each warden in groups throughout the year.
5. Section Specialization Courses: Once the 5 sections have been established, there would be
two week courses (e.g. public awareness, laws and regulations) taught by the section heads,
once per year, beginning the third year of the project.



- 17 -
6. In-depth Specialization Courses: Three, two-week courses for each section, e.g.
monitoring, public awareness, totalling six weeks of college-level training would be taught by
Romanian specialists during the fourth year of the project.
7. Language Skills: A permanent language lab will be set up in Tulcea during the first year,
with intensive courses and facilities for ongoing use, to teach English, German and French
over the course of the project.
8. Construction Skills Training: This would be technical training for the wardens by the
local craftsmen in carpentry, bricklaying, thatching, boat building, for the construction for
related park infrastructure (watchtowers, exhibits, buildings) in ways that are traditional and
environmental, and can ensure ongoing-maintenance of park facilities and preservation of
traditional skills. This would be ongoing through the life of the project.
9.  A training officer would be financed through technical assistance for 3 months to
develop the curricula for all of the training activities outlined below and in conjunction train
the newly appointed DDBRA staff training specialist.
(iii) Equipment and Vehicles (US$503,000)
3.08     Items that are specifically for Monitoring by the monitoring rangers or Community
Involvement by the Interpretive Wardens are listed in their respective components. The
following equipment would be needed to carry out park wardening operations for patrolling,
monitoring and guiding:
Transport (boats, vehicles): Communication (radios); Optical Instruments (cameras,
binoculars, cameras, video); Office equipment (fax, photocopiers); Information Material
(field guides, educational), Field equipment (clothing, camping gear), Survey equipment
(GPS, diving, flora and fauna monitoring), Training equipment (tape recorders, books,
supplies) and training boat (with teaching/public awareness materials) to serve for
training and public awareness activities.
(iv) Infrastructure (US$305,000)
3.09     For effective biodiversity protection, the wardens will need a Headquarters, district
offices, storage facilities for large equipment, training facilities, visitor information/
participation centers, field posts, exhibits and accommodation. For field-oriented training,
the existing Ecological Information Center at Uzlina could be used, since it is already
dedicated to this purpose and owned by DDBRA.
3.10     Significant park infrastructure components, such as signs, exhibits, watchtowers,
and information centers are in preparation with funding from the DDBRA investment budget.
These are described in the Public Awareness Component. In addition, there is a need for
staff housing to attract qualified people and information center-warden offices in the districts.



- 18 -
The project will renovate flats for up to 20 families and finance construction of 4 traditional-
style information/office centers in the Delta.
3.11     Villagers leaders and local youth will be contracted by the project to help in the
building of park-related infrastructure (e.g. observation towers, exhibits, boundary markers)
so they can have a greater understanding of the purposes and needs of the reserve. This will
be coordinated with the "construction skill training" course for the Wardens identified in the
previous section. Leaders will be found from the villages who are experts in certain skills
(e.g. carpentry) to both teach the Wardens and the youth.
3.12     Increased staff costs. The staff on the warden's payroll would be increased from
81 to 152 over a 5-year period. GOR have already budgeted for this staff increase.
COMPONENT 2: Monitoring
Implementing Agencies:  DDBRA, DDIIBRG (Biodiversity Research Group),
Apele Romane
Cost Total: US$641,000
A. Present Monitoring Status
3.13    The ecological processes of the Delta have undergone much change. The DDI and
other organizations have conducted monitoring activities to provide information on the causes
of environmental degradation and the resulting changes in biological community composition
and.distribution. This information forms the background for appropriate management of the
Delta Biosphere area with regard to zoning and activity regulation.
3.14     The DDI presently has 32 staff that work in six research areas, including reed,
fish, biodiversity, forests, tourism and pasture. Together they are implementing the
following biodiversity-related programs: assessment and protection of biodiversity of DDBR;
characterization of ecological factors defining natural systems in DDBR; study of DDBR
fish, reed, vegetable and game populations and establishment of conditions of sustainable
use; development of conditions to use landscape for tourism; ways to limit negative impacts
of economic activities on natural systems; and inclusion of economic and social activities in
ecological management of DDBR. Additional organizations collect data on hydrological and
geomorphologic parameters.
3.15    The following provides an overview of the ongoing monitoring activities in the
Delta by various organizations:
Species/Population Survey and Inventories:
3.16     Presently the DDI/Biodiversity Research Group (DDI/BRG) is conducting activities
on species/populations. They have a staff of 15 with assistance from 7 of the DDBRA



- 19 -
wardens, as well as assistance from collaborating universities, botanical gardens and
museums. This group conducted 4, 2-week expeditions in 1992-93 and categorized the
natural areas (not the impoldered areas) of the Delta into 27 biotypes based on
geomorphology, vegetation associations, water supply. They record and capture specimens
of fish, mammals, aquatic invertebrates, birds as well as transects for flora. The data are
recorded according to species name, taxonomy, ecological data, qualitative abundance and
computerized in point-specific references, but are unpublished and not in database format.
There are no studies of flora/fauna dynamics or systematic vegetation monitoring. The data
so far indicate a need to redefine and choose additional protected areas. Studies are needed
to make sustainable estimates of game resources, working with hunting associations. The
following chart illustrates the current state of knowledge on biodiversity in the reserve.
Recorded Species in the
Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve
FLORA                    No. of Species
Algae                         213
Fungi                          32
Lichens                       110
Higher plants                 804
FAUNA
Invertebrates
(excluding insects)           575
Insects                       1234
Fish                           75
Amphibians                      8
Reptiles                       18
Birds                         320
Mammals                        57
Note: Known species only; actual number of species of
invertebrates and lower orders of plants are likely to
be much higher than this.



- 20 -
Forest Vegetation
3.17     The DDI is conducting a forest (including riverine and coastal strand) inventory
with planned completion in 1995. They use standard inventory practices, e.g. transects,
sampling for growth and productivity measures, community composition, etc. A 1:50,000
vegetation map (also indicating polder use) was produced by DDI and Rijkswaterstaat
(Flevoland) of the Dutch government in the summer of 1993. It has been digitized and color
copies at the 1:100,000 scale are available. 1993 Landsat imagery has also been provided to
the DDI by the Rijkswaterstaat.
Aquatic Plants (Reeds. Waterlilies)
3.18     The DDI Reed Research Group is in the process of preparing maps of reeds with
transects, resulting in 24 vegetation types. The transect samples include list of species,
percent cover, reed type, height, diameter, biomes, chlorophyll, microfauna, shoot density,
reed quality assessed through silica richness. They plan to have ainual satellite images as
well as an update of air photos which were last taken in 1990/91, and compare these with
those from the 1970s and 80s. They wish every April to have images of harvested reeds and
in August images of burned areas to predict the next years harvest.
Birds
3.19     The birds of the Danube Delta are perhaps the most "high profile" species of the
Delta with regard to conservation, yet as noted earlier migrating and breeding populations are
declining due to loss of habitat and deterioration of water quality. Presently there are a
number of different groups conducting bird surveys and inventories, based on 63 key species
and 13 zones in the Delta. The DDI/BRG conducts daily sightings by 6 observers utilizing
Bird life (ICBP) guidelines and makes monthly, computerized totals. The DDBRA Wardens
also conduct daily sightings and record information on forms about on reproduction, nesting
and feeding areas. They have also been conducting pelican ringing as part of an international
program coordinated by Tour de Valet (France) but more rings are needed for effective
results. The Ornithological Society of Romania (OSR) also helps with :ightings and ringing
since 1990 and publishes overall results four times per year. The OSR also conducts mid-
winter bird counts with the IWRB.
3.20     The NGO Bird Life (formerly International Council for the Conservation of Birds,
ICBP) has had a Memorandum of Understanding with the DDBRA since 1992 to provide
technical assistance on bird management and public awareness (described in the respective
component). To date they have provided binoculars, telescopes, books, clothing and 2 boat
engines. These items have been a valuable part of the Wardens current capacity to carry out
bird-related activities (e.g. counts and protection). An ornithological management plan and
outline of a long-term monitoring and bird protection program are in the first draft stage.
Bird Life has also agreed to start training and study-tours for the DDBRA and the ROS,
building on Bird Life's experience in wetland management through governmental/NGO
partnerships in practice throughout the mediterranean Ramsar sites. As part of carrying out



- 21 -
the above activities Bird Life sponsored an advisor for three months during 1992 to help with
the drafting of the bird-related sections of the management plan.
Fish
3.21     The DDI Fish Research Group has conducted annual fish stock assessment of
principal species since 1984, utilizing FAO methodologies. These are based on sampling at
11 collection points with boats and seine nets of natural water bodies (polders excluded).
Fish body size and egg count measurements are put into computer models to make annual
recommendations for fish exploitation. Annual reports on biomass, sustainable yield
recommendations and area and species distribution, population totals, mortality, sex
distribution and effort per year are made based on mathematical modelling and provide the
basis for catch recommendations for the next year. Data from fishing companies on fish
stocks of the principal species are available since 1960. There are 1,000 fishermen in the
area working for 7 state companies and 4 private companies.
Mammals
3.22     The DDI/BRG traps rodents and insectivorous and sights and records other
mammals. Yet both baseline and monitoring work is needed with a protection focus on the
mink which lives on the plaurs, wild cats and otters in the waters. In contrast populations of
the wild boar need to be managed, possible through organized hunting. The mink and the
otter have a high-profile conservation value that could be encouraged by NGO groups in
public awareness activities.
Air.Ouality and Radioactivity
3.23     The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) monitors air quality in Tulcea
township at one sampling point on a daily basis, and a further eight sampling points on a
monthly basis. A synthesis is published every month and data are available from 1987. The
EPA has also from 1987 collected samples on a daily basis, for analysis of radioactivity in
the Tulcea area and from Sf. Gheorghe (1987 to March 1993); the latter has since been taken
over by the DDBRA. The results are sent to the MWFEP and to the radioactivity laboratory
in Afumati.
Climate and Hydrology
3.24     The national hydrometic network is operated by RA Apele Romane. In the Delta
staff from the Tulcea office, under the Constanta regional office, measure daily water levels
at 26 stations, and on a monthly basis discharge, suspended sediment and bed load at 11, 7
and 5 of these stations respectively but this routine is on the verge of breakdown for lack of
replacement of equipment over more than 15 years. The Institute for Meteorology and
Hydrology maintains 8 climate stations. The DDI hold the data for the period 1932-1992 for
the Tulcea point, but records go back to 1879 for Tulcea and to 1895 for Isaccea. The
Department of Physical Geography at the University of Bucharest has for over 20 years



- 22 -
assembled hydrological data about the Danube Delta. This has culminated in the
development of a basic hydrological model of the Lake Matita-Merhei complex. Data are
available for various lake systems covering the period 1968-1992.
Water Ouality
3.25    Water quality data for Tulcea at 19 points within the Delta are available for the
period 1978-92, the sampling and analysis having been undertaken by the EPA and its
predecessor at its Tulcea laboratory which is ill-equipped. In December 1992 the
Government transferred responsibility for water quality monitoring to Apele Romane. In the
meantime the EPA continues the monitoring of the above 19 points. In 1992, however, the
DDBRA also assumed responsibility for monitoring water quality at Tulcea, and within the
Biosphere Reserve. The DDBRA now undertakes daily and monthly water sampling and
analysis for Tulcea and Vilkovo stations respectively, using the DDI laboratory. In addition,
DDI has since 1984 also monitored water quality, initially at 15 stations with varying
frequency, and since 1991 at 10 stations monthly, and 41 stations quarterly, for which data
are available at DDI.
3.26     The Faculty of Biology at the University of Bucharest and Braila Research Station
have carried out research since 1980 on nutrient cycling and aquatic ecosystems which
includes some water quality measurements, particularly in the lake systems within the Delta.
Most recently (1990-92) data has been collected at locations upstream of the Delta.
Soils
3.27    There is an unpublished draft 1:50,000 scale soil map of the Delta based on the
work of the DDI and Dr. Munteanu from ICPA in Bucharest, dating from 1985. This will
be published as a color 1:100,000 map in 1994 by Rikswaterstaat. In addition soil maps for
the following polders and proposed polders are available at the Institute: Dunavat I, Dunavat
RI, Holbina I and 500 ha of Holbina II, Caemurlea, 6 Martie, Lunca, Erenciuc, Leahova,
Izmeica, Periteasca, Murighiol, Somava, Obretin I, Popina, for which areas the DDI has
physical and chemical analytical data for some 2000 soil auger sample points. Soil sampling
(and analysis) is also undertaken by DDI research teams from cultivated and abandoned
polders, and natural vegetation sites, as part of the polder restoration, impact of economic
development and sustainable pasture projects.
Socio-Economics
3.28     15 yearly published census provides data on human population and occupancy.
The last census was in 1992. The DDI socio-economic research group collates data from the
commercial companies, and carries out limited socio-economic surveys of Delta villages: 17
were surveyed in 1992, and 10 will be surveyed in 1993. Data about land ownership are
held by the Cadastral Mapping Office (OCOTA), which has a local office in Tulcea.



- 23 -
Shipping
3.29     Non computerized data regarding shipping are kept by the Port Authority, which
include daily records of (a) ships using Tulcea port, including weights and cargo carried, and
(b) of the shipping passing through Tulcea. These are records of shipping cargoes (and the
ships) that have unloaded at Tulcea. The depth of the Sulina channel is monitored each
month with an echo sounder.
Commercial Activities
3.30     Data on the commercial activities in the Delta are held by the 21 companies
concerned, including the agricultural fishery and forestry companies (see Section 4.4). The
data which have been collected about the Delta by the above organizations and institutes can,
to a great extent, serve as the baseline information for a database. However, as some of
these (e.g. ICIM) are partially privatized, some payment may be required.
B. Proposed Monitoring Activities
3.31     The Project would build on existing work to support three broad activities.
1. Ecosystem Surveys and Population/Secies Inventories (LJS$l42,0OOM:
3.32     Seasonal and annual surveys to identify baseline and monitoring status of major
ecosystems and habitats (river tributaries, canals, lakes, reedbed swamps, forests, dunes)
would be continued. Population and species inventories of key indicator, endemic, exotic
and.endangered species provide information on access life history trends, harvesting rates,
population threshold, causes for community change and population decline, focusing on
forest vegetation, macrophyte aquatic plants, birds, fish and mammals.
2. GIS and Data Management (US$330.000):
3.33     An integrated informational data base using GIS technology will result in a variety
of map overlay based (on the ecosystem and species information as well as satellite and aerial
imagery) will provide tools to assess biological diversity and management priorities. This
GIS will result in maps useful for assessment of the suitability of existing protected areas,
consideration of reclassification and zoning options and refine management plans, in light of
ecosystem and population sustainability needs, economic pressures, infrastructure
development and regional influences.
3. Hydraulic Monitoring (IJS$123.000):
3.34     Support would be given to improved water discharge and water quality monitoring.
3.35     The monitoring component will result in:



- 24 -
(a) The establishment of baseline conditions and monitoring programs for management
recommendations: key indicator species, biologically rich areas and high-risk
habitats (hotspots) and control areas and wetland restoration treatments;
(b) Analysis of differences with regard to habitats and flora/fauna community
composition between protected areas (core conservation areas, control sites) and
areas not protected, including polders being restored, to provide indications of
effectiveness of protection and guidelines for rezoning and/or expanding protected
areas;
(c) Relevant information from publications, maps, aerial surveys, remote sensing, etc.
in flora and fauna would be compiled into a DDBRA database, targeted for
resource management applications, but linked with a DDI research-oriented
database to clarify existing state of knowledge and gaps;
(d) Accurate base maps from which other data can be referenced including time series,
point source and geographical coordinates. This will be done with satellite
imagery, aerial photographs and ground truthing with Global Positioning System
(GPS) locators. It will become a prototype and standardization for ecological
zones and land-use units. Recent aerial photography will also be used;
(e) Inclusion of information into a simple GIS format in the DDBRA to be used for
management, planning and public awareness needs. The GIS system will be
capable of selecting spatial ecosystem areas and specific species information, as
well as have prediction and modeling capacity;
(f) Red Data Book: The Danube Delta has many endemic, rare and threatened
species, which need to be systematically identified, counted and published as part
of establishing a baseline set of data. The production of a Danube Delta Red Data
book will facilitate the inventorying of important species and assist monitoring by
a different interest groups;
(g) Organization by DDI of a series of symposia and conferences on the environmental
status of the DDBR in collaboration with other national and international bodies to
ensure. (Information exchange that is targeted to the local communities, with less
emphasis on scientific research is described in the Community Involvement
Component and primarily implemented through the DDBRA Interpretive
Wardens.); and
(h) The training of the DDI Biodiversity Research Group and the DDBRA Monitoring
Wardens, NGO staffs and community members in a variety of biodiversity
assessment and management techniques that foster broad-based understanding and
support of conservation of Delta habitats.



- 25 -
3.36     While the flora/fauna monitoring component would primarily be carried out by the
DDI Biodiversity Research Group with support by the Survey Section of the DDBRA
Warden Department, a wide range of community members, including school groups,
university researchers, and NGOs would also be involved in bird monitoring.
(1) ECOSYSTEM SURVEYS AND POPULATION SPECIES INVENTORIES
(US$142,000):
3.37     The DDI's various research groups (described earlier) would work together to
form an expanded "Biodiversity Research Group" of about 32 existing staff. The following
indicates activities that have been identified by this group to be carried out during the next
five years.
(a) Bird Monitoring:
3.38     An avifauna biodiversity index and breeding points have been maintained for
selected species, including pelicans, cormorants, storks, spoonbills including pairs, death rate
of young and date of last successful breeding pair. But interpretation of present research is
inadequate for conservation needs since there are no results from long series of counts for the
whole Delta and information on trends regarding breeding success is minimal. Systematic
methods for the Delta need to be published to be easily used by different groups, and better
transport and field equipment is needed to reach many of the difficult access points in the
Delta throughout the year.
3.39     The monitoring program for birds will focus on migration (through ringing),
nesting, population dynamics, threatened species, repopulations and population losses.
3.40     The following approaches to bird inventories are outlined and would be developed
into activities of this component.
(i)  Species-based monitoring: Simple counts and population assessment is needed for
priority 8-15 species (e.g. red breasted goose, white pelican, pygmy cormorant and
Dalmatian pelican, white tailed eagle and white stork), including regular
monitoring of key sites every 2 weeks and intensive mid-winter counts for the
wintering waterfowl and crane migrators. Information on dates and bird numbers,
nests, eggs laid/nest, fledged young leaving the nest is needed for population
trends.
(ii) Habitat-based monitoring: A variety of habitats (lakes, reed beds, marshes,
meadows, grasslands, woodlands, coastal dunes/spits) to be selected with each
approximately 500 ha in size, to represent 10-15% of the total area of that habitat
and be selected on a stratified random sampling basis. Each site needs to be
visited 5 times per year, 2 winter, 3 spring/summer. The number and activity of
all birds present should be recorded



- 26 -
(iii) Continuous effort trapping sites: Two decoy observation places are needed for
trapping with mist-netting to be placed where concentrations of migratory birds
occur. Trapped birds should be ringed and information on morphology collected,
and released.
3.41     As described previously, BirdLife has provided initial equipment and technical
assistance to bird-related conservation activities. The GEF project will support their ongoing
participation, building upon this relationship through the following inputs:
(i) Transport and living costs for the BirdLife ornithological specialist to visit
Romania (Delta) two times per year for three weeks each year, throughout the
project in order to help the DDI, DDBRA and the Romanian Ornithological
Society to implementing the monitoring activities, and help with the integration of
monitoring methods (e.g. surveys) into formats appropriate for GIS (via
communication with U.Mass and Rijkswaterstaat). They will also help the DDI
Biodiversity Research Group in monitoring practices and ecological relationships
relevant for the other flora and fauna that are part of overall wetland habitat and
encourage a habitat-based approach to bird-management. Another BirdLife person
will be funded for the same periods to assist with Public Awareness and Regional
Cooperation initiatives, but this is described in those components. BirdLife will be
contributing their staff time to the GEF project at no cost to Romania or GEF.
(b) Fish Monitoring:
3.42     This activity focuses on the study of fish populations in the DDBR to establish
conditions of sustainable fishing.
(i)  Development of baseline fisheries information for all species, not just
commercially valuable ones, with an emphasis on endangered species and those
which are bioindicators;
(ii) Development of an ongoing monitoring program together with fishermen to look at
time series change, population trends, indications of water quality and health,
potential economic resources and overall biodiversity recovery.
3.43     The program began in 1991, but the fish research team has been working in fish
stock assessment since 1984. The program will be continued in 1996-2000 period. The
basic purpose of fish stock assessment for inland fisheries of DDBR is to provide advice on
the Maximum Sustainable Yield of fish aquatic resources. The other goal is the
determination of migratory anadromous (shad and sturgeons) fish stock size and their trend.
In addition the study analyses the elements on fish ecology (biotic and abiotic features) to
explain the present status of fish stocks in DDBR. Finally a management strategy for
sustainable exploitation fish resource will be elaborated together with the measures for the
restoration of fish population stocks in decline.



- 27 -
3.44     The sampling is carried out yearly in the 11 main complex lakes in DDBR:
Baclanesti Lake, Razim Lake, Fortuna Lake, Sinoie Lake, Gorgova Lake, Somova Lake,
Matia-Merhei Lake, Trei lezere Lake, Isacova Lake, Uzlina Lake, Puiu-Rosu Lake. The
main samples are from industrial fishing seines in autumn, and from fish traps in spring and
summer. Anadromous migratory fish are sampled in spring at Danube Delta branch mouths
and upstream to 52 Marine Mile, from fish landing points, and own survey fishing (Sfintul
Gheorghe, Chilia Veche and Isaccea). The samples included 1,000 to 3,000 individuals of
main species (Bream, Gibel carp, Roach, Pike-perch, Shad and Sturgeon).
3.45     The following data are recorded: Total Length, Standard Length, Weight. The
scales and bones are taken from fishes to provide age structure of population. Eggs are
collected to determine the individual or population fecundity species for estimate of total eggs
produced in spawning period. In 1993 a study was started on unexploited parts of population
concerning small fish (larva and juvenile), to complete all table life of the fish stocks.
3.46     The methods of data processing and analysis use FAO programs and include the
following steps:
(i)  Establishing the structure and distribution length-frequencies and age-frequencies;
(ii) Determination of relationship between weight and length;
(iii) Calculation of growth equation parameters, and mortality rates (total, natural and
fishing mortality);
(iv) Virtual Population Analyses (VPA), to estimate numbers and biomass in Kg, of
population;
(v) Plotting isoplletes graphic Yield/Recruit, and definition of the character of
exploitation (model Beverton-Holt);
(vi) The modelling of effective and biomass population, changing only fishing
mortality, or mesh size, or both;
(vii) Prediction of the short or long term change effect in population (new effective and
biomass).
The project would provide additional fish monitoring equipment to support these programs.
(c) Aquatic Plants:
3.47     This activity would support the continued monitoring of the transects of aquatic
plants (especially reeds) by DDI with DDBRA assistance, as well as others as needed (e.g.
universities, NGOs) ensuring that the data are standardized and produced in an accessible
format. Remote sensing and aerial photographs would be interpreted for species specific and



- 28 -
reed productivity. Both baseline studies and an ongoing monitoring program for reeds and
aquatic macrophytes would be developed.
(d) Flora/Fauna:
3.48     Flora/fauna inventories began in 1991 on basic taxonomic, community composition
and species diversity and population density work on the wild genofund through the DDBR.
This will continue in 1994-95 and focus on algae, aquatic macrophytes, reptiles, mammals,
etc. This information will continue to be collected in a manner that is computer compatible.
It includes information on: dates, previous records, species range (local Romanian,
European, global), geographical coordinates, abundance, endemism, etc. From this data
basic maps for each species will be produced in color-codes based on abundance, occurrence
and habitats.
3.49     Publications including four volumes will be produced including: I (Flora), II + IH
(Invertebrates) and IV (Invertebrates). This will form the basis also for the production of a
Red Data Book for the Danube Delta on rare, endemic and threatened species, which will be
a valuable tool for monitoring and serve as a field guide for a broad variety of users. The
work will continue through 1998 with a more detailed emphasis higher-order macrophytes
and fauna, main order of aquatic worms and crustacea, insects, fishes, reptiles and mammals.
(e) Traditional Pasture:
3.50     Surveys and inventories will examine traditional foddering plant species found in
grazing areas, as well as pasture capacities for selected areas. It will look at the evolution of
flora, biodiversity and bio-mass production, and vegetative quantity and quality.
Experiments will be conducted on the relationship and ratio between the mixture of
graminaceous and perioral vegetable fodder for the improvement of natural pasture.
3.51     The project would provide vehicles and boats (US$43,500), specialized field
equipment (US$57,200) and office equipment (US$21,400) to the DDI Biodiversity Group to
assist them in implementation of these activities, which form the scientific basis for
development of management plans. The socio-economic survey group, with the assistance of
survey work carried out with EBRD, are contributing the socio-economic inputs to
development of these plans. Printing and publishing research material and attendance at
short specialized courses abroad would be financed (US$15,500).
2. GIS AND DATA MANAGEMENT (US$330,000)
Current Database Arrangements:
3.52     In addition to date collection and analysis associated with the Institute's research,
the DDI also has a database development project: "The assessment of the informatic system
of the DDBR Authority including remote sensing and GIS". The objective is the
establishment of a pilot GIS for the DDI data which are of interest to the Authority.



- 29 -
3.53     The DDI is in the initial stages of transferring data from unpublished reports into
computer files, and the digital database now contains the following files:
-   Map of DDBR - Scale 1:200,000 (AutoCad Format);
-   List of mammal species found in the DDBR in 1991 (scientific names,
habitats, abundance);
-   List of species occurring in the DDBR recorded in the literature (flora and
fauna) Source: author, year, article/book, species name and location;
-   Table of hydrological levels at Tulcea station (1932-1991);
-   Table of hydrochemical levels (02, pH, CB05, NH3, NH4) in Danube
branches or lakes (1982-1991, stations, date);
-   Draft Fisheries map (1991);
-   Table of fish production by year and species (selected fishing companies)
and maximum exploitation levels (by year [1991], species and lakes);
-   Sketch map of reed harvesting areas;
-   Sketch map of principal grazing areas (1991);
-   Table of the distribution of domestic animals in the DDBR (1991);
-   Sketch map of hunting areas (1992);
-   Draft map of hunting areas (1993);
-   List of wild animals which are hunted;
-   Map showing tourist routes and period of operation;
-   Data on the social conditions of the DDBR population;
-   Reed/plant association biomass production data and production areas
(maps at 1:25,000).
3.54     The database at present is a series of tables, for single data points (with a common
graphical interface), which are related to map units. Hydrological level data are displayed in
graphical form, but it is not possible to query the actual database. The general land-use map
and the reed map in preparation are held within the AutoCad programme, which permits
spatial referencing, area calculation and data layering. The maps have not been
geometrically corrected, and at present there is no associated map database, although an
experimental record exists for the reed map. The project would assist with the development
of GIS capability for database management in the DDI and DDBRA, and would improve the
data collection capability of Apele Romane by providing hydrological equipment.
Geographic Information System Development (GIS):
3.55     Geographic Information System (GIS) technology offers the opportunity to conduct
a multi-disciplinary inventory of the ecological, anthropological, socio-political, and
economic elements of the Danube Delta. Such an inventory is helpful for developing
sustainable management programs for the Biosphere Reserve and for conserving the
biological diversity of this unique wetland system. Gap Analysis approaches can identify
those areas of the Delta with high biotic diversity, high levels of endemism, or threatened,
critical or unusual habitats or biota. These are typically identified by high species richness
or vegetation types that may be threatened by current and future resource utilization or land



- 30 -
use changes. Managing these "hot spots" for their natural values and the landscape linkages
between them should minimize the loss of the Delta's natural biodiversity heritage. Critical
to this assessment is the identification of areas, especially bird colonies, that are sensitive to
human disturbance and subsequent establishment of special and temporal buffer zones for
these sensitive areas. Identification of these sites and the conservation of the Delta's
spectacular avifauna are essential for the development and maintenance of a successful
ecotourism industry in the Biosphere Reserve. Identification of polders according to their
intended use and status, and the evaluation of reed beds will help managers assess production
and restoration potential. A Danube Delta biodiversity database also will provide a basis for
development of a long-terrm biodiversity monitoring program in the region.
3.56     Two initiatives are in progress that will greatly enhance the work by DDI (and
others) and make it more useful for management activities to be carried out by the DDBRA.
The Rijkswaterstaat (Flevoland) of the Dutch Public Works Ministry, has a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with the DDI for some GIS training and provision of equipment for
the period of 1994-1999. The University of Massachusetts (U.Mass) (USA) began worldng
with the DDBRA and DDI in 1991 through the "US-Romanian Summer Program for Young
Investigators in Ecology/Environmental Sciences", and realized the need for integrated data
collection and management. This component builds on the assistance by the Dutch
government and supports additional work through U.Mass as described below:
(i) Rijkswaterstaat Assistance (Funded by Dutch Government 1994-1999)
3.57     Flevoland's cooperation will focus on:
the application and implementation in Romania of satellite image processing and
GIS facilities, for Danube Delta survey and monitoring, for Romanian research
and management purposes and Dutch research purposes;
-   research quantifying relations between geomorphology, hydrology and ecology for
the purpose of ecological restoration projects in the Netherlands and to develop
sustainable management plans for the Danube Delta area; and
-   the exchange of know how and documentation and specialists in the field of the
ecological restoration.
The work in progress includes:
3.58     An all-Delta 1:50,000 vegetation map (also indicating the actual land use in the
polders) has been produced by DDI and the Flevoland Institute in the summer of 1993. It
has been digitized to an ARCINFO format in Tulcea, using the ARCINFO software that the
Flevoland Institute delivered to DDI in August 1993, and is now available at 1:100,000
scale.



- 31 -
3.59     One all-Delta LANDSAT image (June 1993) has been delivered to DDI by the
Rijkswaterstaat. DDI has set up a temporary cooperation with the Institute for Geology and
Geophysics in Bucharest for image processing. DDI does not yet have the needed ERDAS
software of its own. For future cooperation, the Rijkswaterstaat Institute has purchased three
other all-Delta LANDSAT images (April 1990 TM, August 1991 TM, 1984 MSS). One
more image has been ordered (1975 MSS).
3.60     The Flevoland Institute has given a very short ARCINFO training (August 1993)
in DDI when installing the ARCINFO package in Tulcea. It has given an introduction to
ERDAS satellite image processing in the Netherlands to 3 DDI staff (October 1993).
Danube Delta LANDSAT images were tested for their suitability for planning reed
management.
Work to be carried out in 1994, agreed with DDI:
3.61     An all-Delta soil map will be produced by the Institute for Soil Science and
Agrochemistry (ICPA) Bucharest, DDI and DF1 in 1994. Production includes digitizing to
ARCINFO (by Romanians) and printing in full-color 1:100,000 (by DFI). ARCINFO
training (two Romanians during two weeks) in the Netherlands, using the all-Delta maps will
be provided.
Equipment provided to DDI by the Netherlands:
One PC ARCINFO package, including ArcEdit, ArcPlot, Starterkit, PC Overlay,
PC Dataconversion (August 1993).
One A3 Calcomp digitizer (PC 8000824) + 16 button mouse (PC 8900219,
August 1993).
One HP Designjet 650c inkjet colorplotter + 100 AO sheets + supplementary ink
cartridges (November 1993; in transport).
(ii) University of Massachusetts Technical Assistance (to be supported by the GEF Project)
3.62     Using GIS digital map overlays, a variety of physical, biological, and land use
data will be compiled to provide a tool to inventory biological diversity and to provide a
broad assessment of protection priorities and management needs in the Danube Delta
Biosphere Reserve. Development of this GIS system for the Biosphere Reserve will
contribute directly to development of an integrated, ecologically based management plan for
the Reserve, provide an efficient platform to integrate the multi-disciplinary research
program now being expanded in the Delta, and provide a base for development of a long-
term biodiversity monitoring program in the region.



- 32 -
General Strategy
3.63     A GIS computer system consisting of a workstation and an auxiliary platform,
large and small plotters, a digitizing tablet, and support peripherals will be acquired for the
project. The data base will be compiled from existing data sources and the preliminary
analyses conducted in the United States in cooperation with U.S. and Romanian scientists.
This will require that two Romanian scientists from the Danube Delta Institute come to the
United States for up to 8 months. One of these individuals must be a computer specialist and
the other a scientist who has extensive knowledge of the soils, vegetation communities, and
land use activities of the Delta. As described previously, the DDBRA will be developing a
Natural Resources Assessment Department. The GEF project would also support 1 DDBRA
staff to participate in this training. The training will comprise 4 months in USA, 1 month
back in Romania, 4 months back in USA and 1 final month in Romania. This will allow
sufficient hands-on experience in the USA and application during the project in Romania.
Once the system is developed and analyses conducted, the equipment and data base would be
transferred to the Danube Delta Institute in Tulcea, Romania. U.S. scientists would continue
to provide technical assistance to the Institute as requested as the system further develops to
meet Biosphere research and management needs.
Base Map of Vegetation. Soil Types. and Hydrologic Characteristics
3.64     Digital base maps will be developed for the entire Danube Delta Biosphere
Reserve using ARC/INFO. Thematic Mapper (TM) or SPOT satellite data will provide a
baseline map of natural vegetation, agriculture and developed areas at 1:25,000 scale. TM
coverage of the Delta will require 1.5 scenes. Vegetation/wetland/land use polygons will be
delineated on screen using ARC/INFO at approximately 1:25,000 scale at a minimum
mapping unit of 1 ha. Polygons will be labeled using a variety of sources, including recent
aerial photographs (1:23,000 and 1:40,000 scales) and large scale vegetation maps of Letea
and Caraorman forests. Forest vegetation types will be distinguished by dominant overstory
species. Additionally, elevation data from topographic maps and soil types from existing soil
maps will be incorporated into digital overlays to facilitate evaluation of current and future
land use practices for agricultural production and wetland restoration programs. The
locations and depths of channels and lakes will also be incorporated if these data are made
available from Romanian Institutes. The base map, produced as described above, will be
compared to assorted local maps to test for consistency. Random points will be selected in
different vegetation/land use state and compared between maps.
Mapping Land Ownership, Agriculture, and Other Land Use Activities
3.65     Land ownership will be categorized according to state, collective, private, church,
or school from government records, and land use activity identified from aerial photos. The
boundaries of all polders will be determined from aerial photos, and intended use
(agriculture, reed production, fisheries, silviculture) and status (active vs. inactive) identified.
Additionally, the potential for production in reed beds will be evaluated from interpreting
vegetative composition from aerial photos and classed within the vegetative overlays.



- 33 -
Mapping Core Bird Areas and Rare or Sensitive Species Locations
3.66     The point locations of all known core areas important to bird conservation,
including breeding, feeding, migratory, and wintering areas, and distribution data of rare or
sensitive species in the Delta will be compiled in cooperation with Romanian scientists and
incorporated into a Delta-wide data overlay. Maps all known locations of rare or sensitive
plant, invertebrate and vertebrate species in the Delta will be produced.
Analyses
3.67     GIS analyses of data layers will be conducted at the University of Massachusetts
using ARC/INFO software on the workstation. This will provide a broad assessment of
protection priorities and management needs for the Biosphere Reserve. TM satellite data will
be analyzed by the U.Mass Digital Image Analysis Laboratory (DIAL) using CDC XPLOR
and locally developed (MACS) software and imported into ARC/INFO. TM images will be
classified in ARC/INFO using a combination of supervised and unsupervised methods.
Atmospheric corrections and band transforms will be applied to improve class separation.
Image classification will also be enhanced by the availability of up-to-date ground
information, recent aerial photography and ancillary cartographic information. Digital
overlay maps will be edited on screen using ARC/INFO by professional interpreters from the
U.Mass Resource Mapping/Land Information Systems Project and participating Romanian
scientists, essentially photo interpreting the digital imagery.
Expected Products and Dissemination Plans
3.68.    This project will provide a broad assessment of protection priorities and
management needs for the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve. This will be accomplished by a
biodiversity analysis of the database and production of a variety of maps. Delta-wide digital
maps of vegetation, wetland, and forest types, land-ownership status, land-use, and potential
for reed production will be produced. Maps for special interest species, colony sites, and
vegetation types (i.e. rare plant or animals, endemic taxa, and sensitive species) will also be
produced. The identification of sensitive conservation target areas will be presented in the
form of a report with supporting cartographic products. All of these products will be
provided to the Danube Delta Institute and to cooperating American and Romanian
institutions and interested groups. The GIS hardware, software, and database will be
transferred to the Danube Delta Institute. A copy of the digital cartographic databases that
are produced during the project will be archived at the University of Massachusetts Land Use
Mapping Laboratory and will be provided to relevant private and public agencies upon
request. A number of publications of the results in a variety of outlets is anticipated.
Data Management Coordination
3.69     The Dutch and UMass activities will be coordinated by the DDI and DDBRA to
ensure there is not overlap of equipment and training. The UMass project is to occur during
1994-1995 while the Flevoland assistance should continue (yet with unidentified costs and



- 34 -
activity contribution beyond 1994) until 1999 in concept. It is hoped that the GEF input
through UMass will build a solid data management capability on-site in the Delta, that will
more clearly identify ongoing activities for potential support by Flevoland through 1999.
Costs
3.70    The cost tables outline the GEF contribution for the monitoring component,
including equipment for the DDI, both survey and data management and the DDBRA. It is
anticipated that the DDI will take the lead on monitoring and as the Natural Resources
Assessment Department in DDBRA becomes operational, they will take in increasing role in
directing monitoring for management purposes. Therefore, basic GIS-capability equipment is
provided to the DDBRA in year three. The following summarizes the activities and costs of
this component which are detailed in the cost table.
DDI Equipment and Training:
(a) Vehicles and Boats - US$43,500;
(b) Field Monitoring Equipment - US$57,200;
(c) Biodiversity Center Office Equipment - US$21,400;
(d) Training and seminars, including conferences, short courses abroad, publication
funds, Red Data Book Publication - US$15,500;
(e) GIS Technical Assistance and overseas training at UMass - US$106,200;
(f)  GIS Equipment (UMass) - US$84,000;
DDBRA Equiprnent and Training:
(a) GIS equipment for the DDBRA/Natural Resources Department - US$31,900;
(b) GIS training at UMass - US$22,000;
(c) BirdLife technical assistance - US$20,000.
3. HYDRAULIC MONITORING (US$123,000)
3.71     Apele Romane's capability to continue monitoring discharges in the main Danube
branches and selected interior water courses is seriously impaired by the deterioration of its
stock of basic stream gauging equipment. The three hydrographic survey boats, on the other
hand, are in good condition. The normal routine is to measure simultaneously the discharges
in the three main branches and repeat this at three different, parallel north-south lines, 40 km
apart, between the coast and the main upstream bifurcations, accounting for nine of the main



- 35 -
gauging sites. There are two more sites further upstream. The same poor state of equipment
holds for its water level recording gauges, most of which are no longer operational. The
project would provide Apele Romane with recording echo sounders, stream gauging,
suspended sediment and bedload sampling equipment to re-equip its three survey boats as
well as associated laser distomats and two-way radio equipment. Twelve new recording
water level gauges would also be provided, to be powered by solar cells.
3 sets of current meters, sampling and surveying equipment     $72,700
12 recording gauges, spare charts, solar panels plus batteries  $40,300
COMPONENT 3: Pilot Polder Restoration to Natural Conditions, and Reed
Restoration Research (US$575,000)
Implementing Agency: DDI with DDBRA
3.72     Activities would have the following objectives:
(a) Reinstatement of wetland areas previously destroyed or degraded as a result of
hydrotechnical works and unsustainable and/or uneconomic land use;
(b) Creation of access to restored wetlands to serve as a focus for ecotourism, thus
relieving tourist pressure from key conservation areas;
(c) Enhancement of water quality in the Delta to benefit natural habitats and also
productive activities, including natural fisheries and reed harvesting; and
(d) Reversing any adverse effects which may have resulted from the decreased silt
deposition within reed beds and increased siltation of open waters.
3.73     There is a pattern of land use in the Delta that will have to continue: shipping and
disposal of dredging spoil, and some other sustainable activities such as forestry, reed
harvesting, some fish production and tourism. Upstream activities include power regulation,
irrigation abstraction, flood plain reclamation and pollution.
3.74     The construction of polders for large scale reed production heralded the beginning
of a major change in the Delta's environment. The failure of the mechanized reed
production led to a conversion of the polders to agricultural, fish and forestry production.
Many of the converted areas, in turn, have proved economically unsustainable. As a result
of the 1989 revolution, the pressure to expand the commercial exploitation and the flow of
subsidies to maintain uneconomic exploitation have ceased. In these circumstances, the era of
intensive hydrotechnical works for exploitation purposes appears finished.



- 36 -
3.75     Prior to the results of pilot projects being available, the tentative rehabilitation
strategy for polders and hydrotechnical works might be to return as large an area as possible
of the Delta to its natural self-regulating ecological condition by:
-   returning polders to wetlands;
-   reducing the entry of sediments into naturally clear lakes;
-   rehabilitating wetlands and open waters adversely affected by drainage and
eutrophication.
-   choice of areas for rehabilitation where commre'rcial activities are no longer
sustainable;
-   assurance that people living in the area are consulted and wherever possible may
benefit from restoration.
(i) Polder Restoration (US$439,000)
3.76     If the principal objective is to re-establish a natural state that will also allow the
harvesting of reeds and extensive fishing, the main need will be an adequate exchange of
water, of which the desirable frequency and duration are uncertain. The essential purpose of
the exchange is to provide oxygen and nutrients to encourage good reed growth and plankton
yields.
3.77     Whatever the frequency of water exchange needed, the cheapest way to achieve it
is by breaching the dykes. Since the cost of this is very low and the most critical need will
be to avoid development of oxygen-deficient conditions in any part of the polder and make
water exchange universal, many small openings should be made rather than a few large ones.
This. will complicate monitoring to some extent. There may also be a need to control the
exchange of initially nutrient rich water between the newly inundated polder and the rest of
the Delta.
3.78     A total of 16 polders covering 60,260 ha and listed in the Table below have been
identified by DDBRA as abandoned in whole or in part and potentially suitable for
restoration. The total abandoned area within these 16 polders is 26,430 ha. However, the
abandoned empoldered land that is available for restoration is currently limited by a Protocol
between the county of Tulcea and the DDBRA, dated 28 January 1993. This protocol
defines which of the polders are to be retained for commercial production. The areas which
are excluded from the protocol agreement (i.e. are available for restoration) total 11,425ha.



- 37 -
Agricultural and Fish Polders Identified for Restoration
A. Excluded from Protocol Agreement
Reference  Polder           Landuse             Total Area   Abandoned Area
on Map                                        -----ha-----  --------ha---
1/10 (1)   Babina          AA                   2,100          2,100
1/11 (2)   Cemovca         AA                   1,580          1,580
1/21    Fortuna W and E   AA                  2.115           2.115
Total AA    5,795          5,795
8/7 (1)   Holbina I       AP                    1,270          1,270
8/8 (2)   Holbina II      AP                    3,100          3,100
8/9     Dunavat II (west)  AP                 1.260           1.260
Total AP    5,630          5,630
Subtotal                             11,425         11,425
B. Included under Protocol Agreement
2/1     Pardina          AA                  27,232          8.12
Total AA   27,232          8,182
3/5     Ceamurlia        AP                   2,900            340
2/8     Chilia I         AP                   2,230            420
8/15    Enisala          AP                     420            180
8/19    6 Martie          AP                   1,050           158
8/21    Lunca            AP                    1,070           638
4/9     Murighiol        AP                   2,235            500
2/6     Oberetin II      AP                   2,683            617
1/12    Popina           AP                   6,400          3,600
4/2     Rusca            AP                   2.615            280
Total AP   21,603         6,733
Grand Total                         60,26          26.340
Source: DDBRA
Key: AA = agricultural polder; AP = fish polder.



- 38 -
3.79     On the basis of a selection process that took also into account the likely availability
of the land and the suitability to serve as pilot projects, the order of execution of the polder
restoration program was determined. As a first phase, four polders were identified: Babina,
Cernovka and Holbina I and II. Babina and Holbina I would be executed as the first step of
3,370ha, followed by Cernovca and Holbina II as the second step of 4,680ha. The results
from the restoration efforts will be monitored before investments are made for the restoration
of further polders from the list on Table that have all been grouped as phase II polders.
3.80     In the case of Babina polder, which is not flooded at the moment, flooding may
result in a flush of nutrients from the soil into solution, in particular N. In course of time
these high nutrient levels would diminish. Monitoring of the water quality may indicate a
need to close the breaches once the flooding of Cemovca is complete anrd subsequently open
them for a more gradual release of the nutrient rich water. Such a potential problem is not
encountered in the fish polders.
3.81     The polder restoration program is relative inexpensive in civil works but
expensive in surveying and monitoring, in particular for the four polders of the phase 1 first
group. It is expected that the experience obtained with the phase 1 group will reduce the
design, surveying and mapping and monitoring requirements for the polders under phase II.
The same monitoring equipment as for phase 1 would serve phase II.
The WWF/Auen Institute would assist in monitoring flora and fauna changes and mapping
for Babina and Cernovka, while Rijkswaterstaat would assist with the Holbina polders.
Surveyors would be contracted from outside, but the hydrologic and water quality monitoring
would be performed by DDI.
Further Polder Restoration
3.82     From the list of 16 polders in the Table, it is expected that the project will be able
to initiate restoration of four polders to wetland conditions during the first two years of the
project. Of the remaining 12, Pardina is too large and the least likely to become available
for restoration. As the perimeter dykes around Fortuna W and E are incomplete, no further
action is proposed. What remains are the nine fish polders included under the protocol and
Dunavat II west. Once agreement has been reached with the commercial companies
concerned, wetland restoration should proceed. In each case a feasibility study would be
required to draw up details of the required engineering works.
3.83     The equipment to be purchased for the monitoring by DDI in the restored polders
amounts to $52,700 for the hydrological monitoring, and $113,600 for the water quality
analysis. The latter consists for about 40% of portable equipment for in-situ standard tests.
Before deciding on the purchase of the remainder of the chemical analysis equipment,, three
chemists from DDI would spend two weeks at the N.V. Waterwinningsbedrijf Biesbosch in
Holland. This is the raw water supplier (from the Meuse river) for the S.W. Holland, with a
first class laboratory and experience in providing in-service training to eastern European
water chemists. The DDI delegation would take along some water samples and Cormoran
eggs, which would be analyzed in Holland to determine the critical pollutants and this would



- 39 -
guide the choice of further equipment to be procured. The new equipment would serve not
only the polder restoration program but DDI's general water quality monitoring program all
over the Delta.
(ii) Reed Restoration Research (US$136,000)
3.84    Determination of the hydrologic regime most favorable to successful wetland re-
establishment is an important element in development of a long term program for wetland
restoration. A research program with this goal has been prepared jointly by the Danube
Delta Institute, the Braila Hydrobiological Section of the University of Bucharest, and the
University of Georgia (USA). Replicated experimental plots would be established in a series
of large earthen basins at the Uzline agricultural research station, and flooded according to
various hydrological parameters of water depth and flow-through velocity (retention time).
Each flooding treatment would be evaluated using ecosystem functions of nutrient and
sediment retention, development of reed-dominated emergent plant assemblages,
phytoplankton, macro-invertebrates and zooplankton habitat, with special attention to
indicator species. Management guidelines for large scale restoration would be developed
from the evaluation. The project would finance civil works for establishment of the earthen
basins, research equipment, on-site training and travel costs for University of Georgia staff.
COMPONENT 4: Ecosystems Restoration (US$1,176,000)
Inplementing Agency: DDI with DDBRA
Eutrophication Flow Reduction into Lakes (US$112,500)
3.85    The construction of canals to connect the clear water lakes with the major river
branches of the Delta (eg lakes Merhei, Matita, Babina, Miazazi, etc) has resulted in
increased sediment deposition as shown on recent satellite images, and will have introduced
directly water rich in nutrients into these lakes. Such water might otherwise have been
filtered by the surrounding reed beds before entering these lakes, and have its content in
sediment and nutrients reduced as a consequence. There may well therefore be a good case
to close some of these canals. Many canals are appreciated by the local population for
transportation. Therefore blocking canals to force flood water to pass through reed fields
before entering the lakes may have to be accompanied by providing the construction of link
canals bypassing the lakes.
3.86    The project would finance two pilot projects to reduce the inflow of high
nutrient/high sediment waters. DDBRA would be responsible for contracting out the civil
works for both pilot projects, while DDI would carry out the "before and after' water quality
testing under its normal monitoring program, using the new equipment acquired under the
polder restoration program. The short southwestern canal connecting Lake Fortuna with the
Dunerca Veche would be blocked, estimated to cost US$39,900. Sufficient channels feeding



- 40 -
into Lake Fortuna would remain open to ensure its use for navigation by fishermen and
recreational boats and the circulation of water.
3.87     The second pilot site selected for the reduction of flow from the Danube into Lake
Lumina is the mouth of the Caraorman canal. The excessive size of this canal is due to its
original purchase, which was to serve the abandoned zircon extraction factory at Caraorman.
It now functions as the main direct conveyance of nutrient and sediment rich river water.
The canal has to remain open for the taxi boat service connecting Caraorman village with the
large boat landing site at Crisan and also for tourist boat traffic, as it is the only connection
from the Sulina branch to the southern Delta before the Busurca canal near Sulina. Of the
Y. shaped doubled inlet in the Sulina branch, the western inlet would be closed entirely and
the eastern inlet top width would be reduced from 100 to 20 meters over a length southward
of 100 meters. Rock protection would have to be placed along the closed section along the
Sulina branch and along the 100 meters of narrowed eastern canal entrance section. The
works would be contracted by DDBRA including 2 mm of engineering, and are estimated to
cost US$72,600. Results would be observed before making a decision to install a sluice gate
to be kept closed during most of the time.
Establishment of Village Woodlots (US$9,900)
3.88     The residents of the Delta traditionally harvest the natural vegetation for firewood,
which diminishes habitat quality, particularly in the neighborhood of larger settlements. The
project therefore wood provide village woodlots for firewood supply for eleven larger
settlements. Individual village lots would vary from 0.5 to 1 ha and DDBRA would try to
have a local NGO organize this initiative and with assistance from Silvo Delta who
successfully manage the poplar forest polders.
Willow Planting (US$123,000)
3.89     Along about 24 stretches of channels totalling 123 km, willow cuttings would be
planted to enhance the landscape in parts of the Delta where these have been destroyed or
poorly established. DDBRA will plant the willows on alternating canal sides with preference
for the north sides, so as not to create canals in densely shaded tunnels which impede the
growth of subaquatic macrophytes.
Pilot Fingerling Protection (US$48,000)
3.90     Along Lake Razim, which produces 50% of the Delta's fish production, there are
about 8 intakes of large irrigation pumping stations and over 90 fish polder pumping sites. A
very large number of small fish are sucked into the intakes and damage the irrigation
sprinkler systems, or introduce alien species (predators) into the fish ponds. A study by DDI
and one trial protection installations contracted by DDBRA for irrigation pumping station
Sarichioi 2, with an installed capacity of 3.6 m3/sec, will be financed under the project.
Study tours, to the UK, the US and to Russia are included and 6 man-months of surveying
and engineering.



- 41 -
Landscape Enhancement (US$60,000)
3.91     There are many sites in the Delta with very unsightly remains of unsuccessful
commercial undertakings. The most spectacular of these is the Caraorman zirconium plant.
The project would assist in lowering the height of the present skyline (visible from 10 km
distance) by dismantling the towering cranes and steel structures. While this does not impact
the biodiversity, it has a strong negative impact on the scenery and hence on tourist values.
There exists a local offer to cut the structural steel into pieces and remove it to the Galatia
smelters for US$60/ton, exclusive of a possible resale value of up to 50%. As a first step
the DDBRA would contract the removal of an initial 1,000 tons of steel for a cost of
US$60,000. If the resale value is attractive, a larger volume could be removed.
Sturgeon Propagation (US$517,000)
3.92     The construction of the Iron gates dam cut off major sturgeon breeding grounds,
while over-fishing by a strongly increased trawler fleet and the intensification of nets for
shad fishing in the NW Black Sea and pollution/eutrophication have all contributed to the
decline in sturgeon catches from almost 1,000 tons in Romania alone in the 1930s, to 200 t
in 1945, and to 10 tons for all riparian countries in the lower Danube today. Out of six
sturgeon species described in the lower Danube, Acipenser sturio and A. nudiventris have
become so rare that their presence is now doubtful. Huso huso, stellatus and guldenstaedti
are not only more rare, but have declined in size. From the lack of young individuals
(especially Huso huso and A. guldenstaedti) in accidental catches at the Deltaic Black Sea
shore, DDI scientist concluded that no successful spawning has taken place in the last 4-5
years.
3.93     Without rapid intervention, it is feared that the Danube sturgeon population may
become extinct before a long term chemical and hydraulic restoration program of the river
will show its effect. At the upstream end of the Danube, the fishery extension service in
Woellershof near Regensburg, Germany, has been conducting a successful restocking
program with sterlet (A. ruthenus) into the Danube and it is carrying out experiments on the
culture of A. guldenstaedti, A. naccari, A. baeri, H. huso, and their hybrids. With the
available DDI ichthyologists with experience in population studies, handling and reproduction
of other fish species, a study should be undertaken with the fishery extension service from
Woellershof of the viability of artificial sturgeon propagation in the Danube Delta, using
mostly the local sturgeon varieties. The study also investigate the relative costs and benefits
of constructing the sturgeon hatchery, compared with rehabilitation of small tributaries to the
Danube below the Iron Gates, which could eventually provide alternative natural spawning
grounds. It would also review alternative sturgeon propagation approaches, expecially those
adopted in Russia. If the studies indicate sufficient promise after the end of the first year, a
hatchery would be constructed with a annual capacity of 100,000 fingerlings of 20cm size.
The cost of the hatchery, with associated laboratory and equipment is estimated at $381,000.
Design of the hatchery, to be located on the Sf. Gheorghe downstream from Tulcea, would
be undertaken in year one as well, anticipating a positive outcome of the studies. A
particular subject that also warrants close study is the annual power consumption of a



- 42 -
hatchery of this size, which has tentatively been estimated at 100,000kWh per year. A
satisfactory arrangement about who will pay the power costs will have to be submitted to the
Bank before construction of the hatchery with GEF funding would be initiated.
3.94    Costs have been developed for the hatchery, based on the existing German model.
It is estimated that over the five year duration of the project, 6 man-months of TA from the
German extension service would be required. Also, German assistance would be given for
the design of the hatchery. Field studies of stock, migration and natural spawning from
would be most intensive during the first year, but would continue using radiotelemetry to
trace adult spawners.
Small Grants Research Fund (US$200,000)
3.95    The project would fund US$200,000 for financing applied research projects
undertaken by Romanian scientists into natural resources management in and around the
Delta. A particular focus of interest should be possible studies of alternative landuses for
buffer zones around the Delta, such as the shores of Lake Razim and Crapina polder
upstream of the Delta. The Fund would be held in trust by the PIU, but decisions as to its
allocation would be made by a Research Grants Committee consisting of senior staff from
DDBRA, DDI, MWFEP, the Romanian academic community and one international expert.
GOR agreed on the composition of the committee at negotiations [para 6.01(a)].
COMPONENT 5: Public Awareness and Community Involvement
Inplementing Agencies: DDBRA with NGOs
Total Cost: US$156,000
3.96    Developing an understanding of the biosphere reserve concept and need for
ecological protection for all of the Delta and the Romanian people is critical for the effective
implementation of this project. This component supports the development of a public
awareness function in the DDBRA through providing equipment for the planned Information
and Education Department in the DDBRA, as well as resources for the Guiding Unit in the
Warden Department and activities for selected NGOs active in the Delta.
3.97    It is especially important that the evolving process of establishing boundaries and
zoning categories (e.g. core conservation areas and multi-purpose buffer or support zones)
within the Delta be done in a participatory manner, between government, NGO and local
communities, with mutual understanding of the need for maintaining the Delta's ecological
processes. The component has the following objectives:
-   To raise awareness of the local population and recreational and scientific visitors of the
value of the Delta through establishing public awareness activities and centers and
preparing environmental education materials, field courses, etc. which will encourage
involvement.



- 43 -
-   To encourage international support for protection of the Danube Delta and the Black
Sea through international information exchange and coordination of action between the
riparian countries.
3.98     The guiding wardens of the DDBRA will be the main link between the public and
Biosphere reserve management. They will be the primary implementers of this component,
with assistance from the other Wardens, the DDBRA staff of the Information Department,
the DDI, NGOs and other organizations.
3.99     A public participation plan will be prepared based on identification of the
resources users targeted from the EBRD and DDI activities, in order to plan appropriate
activities for districts, age groups, national and international. Gathering information from
maps, literature and interviews with a wide range of people will be the primary methods.
This will form the baseline information for the Warden Guides to know what materials to
produce, talks to present, etc. to the local population. This should take place after the
Wardens have had the training courses outlined (Study tours and Warden Foundation) in
Component One.
3.100    The following outlines sample activities to be developed in the plan:
-   Design of exhibitions for visitors center, district centers, field observation posts;
-   Local seminars, school courses, lecture series;
-   Cooperation with the DDI in the preparation of scientific conferences;
-   Newsletters, posters, brochures, T-shirts;
-   Videos and slide shows, etc.;
. -   School programs, painting competitions; and
-    3Opportunities for community members and groups to participate in ecosystem
monitoring activities (e.g. bird counts, vegetation surveys.), and land zoning plans
are pilot wetland restoration programs.
The GEF project would support development of participation and public awareness support
through the following activities:
(a) Training:
3.101    Training for the Warden Guides was presented at three levels in Component I
(Warden Strengthening) through the Study Tours and On-site applications for the Section
Leader, the Warden Foundation Course and In-Depth courses. The latter would cover
exhibit design, promotional materials preparation, environmental education curriculum
preparation as well as courses on historical and ecological subjects.



- 44 -
(b) Bird Life 'ichnical Assistance (US$20,000):
3.102    Bird Life (the International Council for the Preservation of Birds) has worked with
DDI and DDBRA since 1991 on developing management plans, and provided conservation-
related equipment for the DDBRA Wardens. They have drafts of plans on long-term public
awareness needs (training and materials) and bird-watching tourism. These activities are
integral to all aspects of the GEF project, especially the "participation plan", interpretive
infrastructure, materials production and activities and NGO support described in this section.
Therefore, Bird Life will provide a Public Awareness specialist to work in Romania twice a
year for three weeks each time. His travel and accommodation costs would be met from the
GEF project. He will help the guides and the new DDBRA Information/Education officer
will provide a Public Awareness activity. He will also help facilitate good communication
and interaction between monitoring needs (via the DDBRA, DDI and Romanian
Ornithological Society) (ROS) and public awareness. They will help ProDelta and Romanian
Ornithological Society in Tulcea carry out activities on a community level through non-
governmental channels. He will also help bring ideas forward from similar wetland projects
in the mediterranean, and ensure coordination with new initiatives of the GEF Black Sea
Project.
(c) DDBRA Interpretive Infrastructure: (provisional US$500,000, not included in
Project Costs)
3.103    As stated in the Warden Strengthening, park infrastructure (signs, observation
towers, border markers, information centers, etc. are essential to the success of the project,
and must be established from the beginning. It is understood that such materials are being
funded from the National Budget for 1994, at approximately 1 billion lei for 2,800 signs, 60
observation towers, 5 land observation posts, 88 exhibit signs, one information center in the
center of the Delta and seven warden stations. If the GOR cannot fund the above, selected
items should be provided through the project. Members of the community will be involved
in helping to build much of this infrastructure as described in Component 1.
(d) DDBRA Public Awareness Activities. Production Equipment and Out of House Materials
(US$99,000)
3.104    The Information and Education Unit in the Visitor Center/Headquarters working
with the Guide Wardens will use computers, printers, photocopiers, books, paper, projectors,
purchase of prepared videos, posters, etc. and produce Information Bulletins, folders on
regulations, color brochures of zones and flora/fauna, video, radio broadcasts, national and
local newspaper articles, calendars, etc. (Note that at present DDBRA has no special staff
for the information department, but that 2-3 will be brought on board with the EBRD
proposed staffing structure.) In addition:
About 6 films have been made on the Delta; the TV rights for Romania should be
purchased (US$10,000 for one-time national showing), and the rights for local



- 45 -
screenings bought (US$2,000). A Romanian video should also be made with NGO
assistance (e.g. Royal Society for Protection of Birds): US$5,000.
(e) 3 Year Support to ProDelta. ECOS. Friends of the Delta and Romanian Ornithological
Society NGO: $29000
3.105    ProDelta is a local NGO which has worked in the Tulcea community and
throughout the Delta with villages and school groups to develop a better understanding about
the Delta's resources and need for realistic zoning and conservation. Friends of the Delta
has a similar role. ECOS is a new NGO, whose membership is mostly teenages. They are
an effective partner with the Wardens in helping to develop community involvement and in
particular planning process. The Romanian Ornithological Society (ROS) has a long history
of nature conservation related to wetland habitat protection for birds throughout the country.
Bird Life is supporting a full-time Romanian Ornithological Society staff person in Tulcea.
The project will fund basic equipment to both ProDelta and ROS to work together on
community involvement and to make them more operational including computer, jeep, audio-
visual equipment and operating costs. ProDelta and ROS are preparing workplans for use of
this equipment.
COMPONENT 6: Regional Initiatives. Coordination and Management Assistance
(UJS$193,000)
Inplementing Agency: DDBRA
3.106    As described earlier in the report, there is a parallel GEF project, targeted at
pollution mitigation of the Black Sea, entitled Black Sea Environmental Management
Program. One component of this project is the Black Sea Biodiversity Strategy which will
emphasize wetland conservation. The Ukraine and Romania Danube Delta projects will
serve as a valuable pilot effort for in-situ nature protection as part of this broader regional
initiative. The Danube Delta can provide important lessons for the strategy, while DDI and
DDBRA staff can also benefit from learning about related activities that other wetland
organizations are implementing.
(a)     Black Sea Biodiversity Strategy Cooperation (US$15,000)
3.107    Toward this goal the project will fund the participation of DDBRA and DDI staff
in a series of workshops that will be developed as part of the Black Sea Biodiversity
Strategy. These include small, focused training workshops on:
(a) Public Awareness and Environmental Education for Black Sea Wetlands, to be
held in Turkey in September 1994. One member of the DDBRA staff would be
funded to attend the 1 week workshop.
(b) Bird Inventory and Monitoring Methods: This one week workshop is to be held in
Russia in 1995. A DDI ornithologist would be funded to participate.



- 46 -
(c) Black Sea Planning Workshop: this would also be part of the Black Sea Project -
Biodiversity component. It would be held in Bulgaria. The Danube project will
fund the participation of about 25 representatives from the Black Sea countries to
attend the workshop. The DDBRA will present the Management Plan for the
DDBR. The Bulgarian Government will present their experience in developing
both a National Biodiversity Strategy and a National Wetlands Management Plan.
This workshop will help the Danube Delta project experience initiate action for
site-specific management plans in other Black Sea areas and help Romanian leaders
consider national strategies on wetlands and biodiversity.
(d) Cooperation with Ukraine GEF Danube Delta Project: Many references to this
parallel GEF Danube project have been made in this report. There will be an
emphasis on continued cooperation and data exchange between these two projects
to ensure the Delta is managed as an integrated ecosystem between the two
countries. A lump sum of US$3,800 is set aside here to reserve funds for future
cooperative activities that are not yet detailed.
(e) Other Initiatives: There are several other regional initiatives and/or advisory
groups that the Ukraine project staff need to have access to, again to both
contribute and have new ideas. Examples include participation with the Man and
Biosphere Program, IUCN's Wetland Advisory Board, Birdlife International
activities through their Important Bird Areas and IWRB.
(a)     Procurement. Administrative and Programming Assistance (US$165,000)
3.108    The project would finance a procurement advisor for one month in the first year of
the project and two months in the second year, to assist with procurement of goods and
works. He would assist both DDI and DDBRA with preparation of specifications and tender
documents; with international and local shopping procedures, as well as ICB and LCB, and
with evaluation criteria. It would also fund, for the first three years, an average of two man-
months per year of an expert(s) who would be responsible for assisting with programme
coordination and financial administration.
(c)      Advisory Committee (US$15,000)
3.109    The PIU would be assisted by an Advisory Committee which would meet every six
months to discuss and review project progress and advise on the orientation of development
of monitoring, wardens and protected area management plans. It would be composed of
prominent Romanian experts in protected area management, and one international expert, to
be selected by GOR. GOR agreed on the composition of this Committee at Negotiations
(para 6.01 (a)). The project would fund the transport and accommodation costs of experts
participating in Committee meetings, which would be held in Tulcea, organized by the PIU.



- 47 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS
A. Project Costs and Financing
4.01    Project costs are summarized in Table 1 and detailed in Annex 1. They total
US$4.8 million, including physical and price contingencies. Foreign exchange costs are 48%
of the total; civil works, mainly for pilot wetland and ecosystem restoration, represents US$1
million; equipment and vehicles, US$1.7 million, and technical assistance and studies US$1.1
million. Base costs are US$4.2 million, physical and price contingencies are US$0.562
million. Local taxes on domestically produced items are estimated at US$0.08 million. The
proposed GEF grant would finance US$4.5 million, or 94% of total project costs. It was
confirmed at Negotiations that GOR has made adequate budgetary provision to fund its share
of the project costs (para 6.01(f)). Exemption from import duties is being sought for goods
financed under the project. GOR would, in addition, make other contributions, including
provision of signposts and land for buildings.
Table 1: Project Cost Summary
(US$ 000)         % Foreign
Loal  Foreign   Total  Exchange
1. Strengthening of the Wardens Department   966.8   516.0  1,482.7    35
2. Ecosystem Monitoring                       97.1    544.4    641.5    85
3. Pilot Polder Restoration to Natural Condition    284.8   290.1    574.9    50
4. Pilot Wetland Restoration                 805.1   371.5  1,176.6    32
5. Public Awareness/Community Involvement     21.5    134.2    155.7    86
6. Management and Coordination                13.9   178.8    192.7   93
Total Baseline Costs                   2,189.1  2,034.9  4,224.0    48
Physical Contingencies                  218.9   203.5    422.4    48
Price Contingencies                       87.7    51.6    139.4   U2
Total Project Costs                    2.495.8  2.290.0  4.785.8    48
4.02    The financing plan is indicated below in Table 2. The GEF would finance 100%
of foreign exchange costs and 94% of total project costs. GOR would finance 6% of total
project costs, including local taxes, and a portion of local civil works, equipment and
operating costs.



- 48 -
Table 2: Financing Plan (US$ million)
Local      Foreign      Total
GOR                    0.3         0.0         0.3
GEF                    2.2         2.3         4.5
2.5         2.3         4.8
B. Procurement
4.03    Procurement arrangements are outlined in Table 3 below. Equipment (US$1.6
million) comprises a large variety of items and specialized research equipment which cannot
easily be packaged in large lots and purchased through ICB (see Annex Tables). It includes
radios, field equipment, clothing, specialized monitoring equipment, office equipment,
hydrological equipment, reed restoration research equipment, sturgeon hatching equipment
and audiovisual equipment. Goods will be packaged as far as possible and purchased either
by international shopping on the basis of at least three quotes from three countries (totalling
about US$800,000, for items such as binoculars, radios, and office equipment), by local
shopping on the basis of at least three quotes from qualified suppliers (totalling about
US$500,000 for clothing, tents, fumiture, publishing) or direct purchase where there is only
one supplier (US$300,000, e.g., for the sturgeon hatching). Normally the maximum
threshold for international shopping would be US$100,000 and for local shopping
US$20,000. Vehicles and boats total about US$400,000, in addition to equipment. Horses,
a houseboat and small boats worth approximately US$200,000 would be purchased by local
shopping. The remainder, mostly 4-wheel drive vehicles, small rubber boats and engines
totalling about US$200,000 would be purchased by international shopping for contracts below
US$100,000, and by local shopping for contracts under US$20,000. The aggregate amount
for goods (equipment, vehicles and boats together) to be procured by local shopping is not
expected to exceed US$700,000 and by international shopping US$1,000,000.
4.04    Civil works (US$1.1 million) comprises small works scattered throughout the
Delta. Items including construction of housing, the sturgeon hatching and canal dredging
would be procured by LCB. For contracts above US$100,000, estimated to total
US$600,000, LCB will be used. The recipient shall prepare a draft bidding document based
on the Bank's SBD (standard bidding document) for civil works (smaller contracts) and
submit to the Bank for review and clearance before use. When contracts are below
US$100,000 (e.g. for canal bidding or infrastructure within the Delta, estimated to total
US$340,000) local shopping based on at least three price quotations would be permissible.
Some small expenditures, however, such as willow planting, and protection of fingerlings
from the Lake Razim intake (estimated to total US$160,000), would be undertaken through
force account or negotiated contract.
4.05      Training, technical assistance and studies total US$1.2 million. Details are
described in the project components. Much training (US$0.3 million) comprises the local



- 49 -
transport and per diem costs of locally organized in-service training for wardens, including
technical language training. Foreign study tours (US$0.1 million) would be selected based
on a review of reasonable alternatives.
4.06     Some TA would be sole sourced, with the TA provided free of cost and the
transport and training costs financed through the project. This would include TA and
training for GIS for reed restoration research, for pilot polder restoration and for bird
monitoring/public awareness. A firm(s) would be internationally recruited to assist with
design of training, procurement and financial management/programming using Bank
guidelines for procurement of consultants (US$230,000). Local TA would be recruited for
language training, design of polder restoration works and for preliminary studies associated
with the sturgeon hatchery. Should the decision be made to proceed with the sturgeon
hatchery, TA would be sole-sourced to Regensburg together with associated training. Other
items under TA and training include the organization of local and international conferences
and the local purchase of publishing and printing services. The reason for the sole-source
method is that, where it is used, the institutions have already provided similar assistance to
the DDI and DDBRA, have developed particular technical approaches in which the DDI and
DDBRA desire their staff to be trained, and have agreed to continue to provide services at
cost or with no cost for fees of key staff.
4.07     Incremental operating costs (US$0.5 million) include incremental salaries (funded
by the government) and fuel for operating vehicles and boats, the operating costs of the
sturgeon hatchery (if it is built) and the operation and maintenance costs of equipment
financed by the project (financed under the Grant). These would be purchased according to
procedures agreed to by the Bank. All contracts, for TA/training, civil works or goods,
above US$100,000 would be subject to Bank prior review. At negotiations, GOR agreed on
the above procurement procedures [para 6.01(b)].



- 50 -
Table 3: Procurement (US$ million)
CB         LCB         Other       Total
Equipment & Supplies                     -           1.61"       1.6
(Financed by GEF)                                   (1.5)       (1.5)
Vehicles & Vessels           -           -           0.42/       0.4
(Financed by GEF)                                   (0.4)       (0.4)
Civil Works                  -           0.6         0.53/       1.1
(Financed by GEF)                      (0.5)        (0.5)       (1.0)
TA, Training                             -           1.24'       1.2
(Financed by GEF)                                   (1.2)       (1.2)
Operating Costs              -           -           0.551       0.5
(Financed by GEF)                                   (0Q4)       (0Q4)
Total                        -           0.6         4.2         4.8
-          (0.5)       (4.0)       (4.5)
" International shopping US$0.8 million, local shopping US$0.5 million, direct
purchase US$0.3 million.
/ Local shopping (US$0.2 million) and international shopping (US$0.2 million).
L' LCB (US$0.6 million), force account (US$0.16 million) and local shopping
(US$0.34 million).
4' IBRD guidelines.
' Procedures acceptable to the Bank.
C. Disbursements and Accounts
4.08  The disbursement rates are indicated in Table 4 below:
Table 4: Disbursements
Category             GEF Grant Allocation       Amount (US$ M equivalent)
Goods             100% of foreign expenditures;            1.8
100% of the exfactory price of
domestically produced goods,
90% of other goods purchased locally
Civil Works       90% of expenditures                      0.9
TA Training       100% of expenditures                     1.1
Recurrent Costs    80% of expenditures                     0.4
Unallocated                                                0.3



- 51 -
4.09   Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures for incremental
operating costs, civil works, goods procured through direct purchases, force account, or
prudent shopping, and training and technical assistance locally and abroad. Use of SOE
would be limited to contracts below US$100,000. Implementing agencies would retain
support documentation for these items for review by IBRD and external auditors. At
negotiation, GOR would agree to these disbursement arrangements [para 6.01(c)].
4.10  The project is expected to be completed and the grant funds disbursed over five
years. Project completion is expected by December 31, 1999 and Grant closing by June 30,
2000. The disbursement schedule is indicated in Table 5:
Table 5: Disbursement Schedule (US$ million equivalent)
IBRD Fiscal Year      FY95   FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99
Annual                 1.6    1.1    1.0    0.5    0.3
Cumulative             1.6    2.7    3.7    4.2    4.5
4.11   A special account would be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to the World
Bank, to faciliate project expenditures, and GOR would initially withdraw from the GEF and
deposit US$200,000 in it. The Implementation Unit would be authorized to withdraw funds
from it. The account would be opened in accordance with arrangements for existing Bank-
assisted projects, and would be used for most disbursements except those in excess of
US$100,000. GOR agreed at Negotiations to open this account [para 6.01(d)].
4.12   A consolidated expenditure report would be prepared annually by MOE, within 2
months of each calendar year. In addition, an annual audit would be carried out by the
Count of Accounts, including specific reference to, and comments on, SOEs and supporting
documents and disbursements from the special account, and submitted to the Bank within
nine months of the end of each fiscal year. It was agreed with GOR at negotiations that the
implementing agency would follow these accounting and auditing practices [para 6.01(g)].
V. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation
5.01   The project would be implemented jointly by DDBRA and DDI, through an
Implementation Unit staffed by professionals from DDBRA, DDI and MWFEP. DDBRA
would have primary responsibility for the components for wardens strengthening, public
awareness (together with local NGOs), and regional coordination, while DDI, under contract
to DDBRA, would have primary responsibility for ecosystems monitoring, and pilot polder



- 52 -
and wetland restoration. DDI would purchase specialized water quality monitoring
equipment on behalf of Apele Romane, which will undertake the water sampling and
analysis. DDBRA would contract for civil works connected with wetland restoration on
behalf of DDI. The Implementation Unit would assure participation of other departments of
DDBRA and DDI in implementation of the various components. DDBRA and DDI have
both agreed to allocate staff for project implementation.
5.02   Assistance in implementation of certain components would be provided by a variety
of specialized agencies; WWF would assist in polder restoration in Cemovka and Babina and
in public awareness. "Birdlife" (International Council for Bird Preservation) would assist in
bird monitoring and public awareness. The Dutch Flevoland Institute would assist in polder
restoration in Holbina, and in vegetation mapping (the restoration costs are included in the
project costs, but not the Dutch assistance costs). The University of Massachusetts in USA
would assist in training in use of GIS, and development of an integrated database using GIS.
The University of Georgia in the USA would assist in research into reed restoration. The
extension service of Regensburg in Germany would assist in sturgeon propagation. All of
these organizations have established contacts with the DDI and DDBRA and the GEF project
would build on these. A research grants committee has been established to review research
proposals and assess their suitability for qualifying for funding. The PIU would also
maintain close coordination with the Ukrainian authorities on protection and management of
the Delta. GOR agreed at Negotiations on the proposed staffing of the Implementation Unit
and Research Grants Committee [para 6.01(a)I.
5.03   A Project Advisory Committee, composed of senior DDBRA and DDI staff, a senior
staff member of MWFEP, senior Romanian protected-area management specialists and an
international expert with experience in wetland-detailed management, would meet
periodically to review project progress and advise on future plans. GOR provided the
proposals for staffing this committee at Negotiations [para 6.01(a)].
5.04   MWFEP would provide overall guidance on project coordination. It would assure
linkages between the Black Sea and Danube River GEF projects, and would ensure
participation by other Romanian environmental institutes as necessary.
5.05   GOR agreed at Negotiations to follow these arrangements for project implementation
[para 6.01 (a)].
B. Monitoring. Reporting and Supervision
5.06  The PIU would produce a short quarterly report summarizing project progress,
including physical achievement indicators and project expenditures, and a longer report every
six months, which would be translated into English. Reports would highlight emerging
issues, propose solutions and be completed within four weeks at the end of the reporting
period. The Bank would supervise the project on average twice every year: specialist skills
would include a national parks manager/planner, and environmental monitoring expert and a
hydrologist/wetland rehabilitation engineer. A project launch workshop would be held



- 53 -
shortly after project approval. Supervision would require about 15 staff weeks per year. In
addition, the Bank would carry out a project mid-term review jointly with GOR at the end of
the second year of implementation. Component 2 describes in detail the monitoring
arrangements to be established under the project: improved ecosystem monitoring would be a
major project output. Impact monitoring is also built into the pilot wetland restoration
activities. GOR agreed to these arrangements at negotiations [para 6.01 (h)].
C. Public Awareness/Community Participation
5.07   As indicated in the project background and description, local communities are being
closely involved in the elaboration of the management plans under preparation with
EBRD/IUCN assistance. The ecosystem monitoring proposals (component 2) which assist
management in landuse planning, establishment of sustainable harvesting levels and methods
have been designed to involve local populations. The project also includes a component for
public awareness and ecological education in which local NGOs play a key role.
D. Project Benefits and Risks
5.08   The project should improve management of the Delta considerably, leading to an
improvement in its biodiversity, an increase in habitats for wildlife and improvements in the
hydraulic regime. Strengthening the wardens/rangers department, together with support for
public awareness and local participation, will lead to better protection of the Delta
ecosystems, while increasing the understanding by the local population of the importance of
conserving the natural resources of the Delta. Better protected area management should in
the medium term increase the potential for sustainable tourism activities and the income
earning opportunities of the local population. The monitoring program will increase
understanding of the natural processes of the Delta and will help guide management
strategies, further supported by research. The pilot wetland restoration component and its
monitoring will provide the base for more extensive ecosystems restoration and recovery of
the natural role of the Delta, as a unique series of ecosystems.
5.09 The main risk is the limited experience of DDBRA, DDI and MWFEP in
administering projects according to World Bank procedures. There may be implementation
delays, yet there is sensitivity to recruiting foreign technical assistance. This risk has been
dealt with by focusing TA on assistance with procurement, by financing low-cost TA with
whom the Romanians have already worked, and by providing substantial training. Project
activities consist of a number of small interventions, for most of which preparatory work has
already been undertaken and this further minimizes implementation delays. The second
major risk concerns the difficulties of recruiting sufficient additional wardens at the
government salaries offered. This risk will be mitigated by improving working conditions,
and providing housing and training for staff. The risk of limited impact due to poor quality
of Danube river water is largely beyond the reach of this project; however, in the long run
implementation of the ongoing Danube Basin Environment Program should improve water
quality and river basin management.



- 54 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01   At Negotiations, GOR agreed to the following:
(a)   The organizational arrangements for project implementation, including the
structure and functions of the Project Implementation Unit, the Project
Advisory Committee and the Research Grants Committee, the division of
responsibility between DDBRA and DDI, cooperation with the Ukrainian
Danube Plavny authority, but also the role of the MWFEP and of the other
agencies (paras 5.01-5.05);
(b)   The procurement arrangements outlined in paras 4.03 to 4.07;
(c)   The disbursement arrangements outlined in para 4.09;
(d)   The opening of a Special Account as outlined in para 4.11;
(e)   Recruitment of a training, public awareness and natural resources assessment
specialist to DDBRA by March 31, 1995, and recruitment of 20 wardens for
years 1995-1999 (paras 3.04-3.05);
(f)   Adequate budgetary allocation to fund its share of project costs including local
taxes and import duties, signposts in the Delta, and land for new buildings to
be financed by the project (para 4.01);
(g)   The auditing arrangements outlined in para 4.12; and
(h)   The reporting, monitoring and review arrangements summarized in para 5.06.



Romania
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    Total
Strengthening of the Wardens Department    640.9   330.2   330.8   199.3   181.0 1,682.2
Ecosystem Monitoring                          529.3    49.4    73.4    32.0    33.5   717.7
Polder Restoration                           281.9   129.1   102.9    84.5    52.1   650.4
Ecosystem Restoration                         120.2   508.9   385.6   194.8   133.3 1,342.9
Public Awareness/ Community Involvement        66.9    48.3    21.6    19.5    20.1   176.4                      U'
Management and Coordination                    99.9    61.1    43.4       5.9      6.1   216.3 
Total PROJECT COSTS                            1,739.1 1,127.0   957.7   535.9   426.1 4,785.8
Mon Feb 14 17:55:07 1994
I Q 
. 



Romania
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1994    1995   -1996 . 1997    1998    Total
Investment Costs
Civil Works                          236.0   404.7   338.7   106.6    44.7 1,130.7
Vehicles and Boats                   280.1    71.7    38.8       4.1      2.4   397.2
Equipment and Supplies               613.9   368.0   319.9   129.6   104.6 1,536.0                               IJ
Technical Assistance and Studies   317.2    71.7    38.3    51.2    49.0   527.4
Training                             244.0   147.0   118.2    88.3    65.3   662.9
Total Investment Costs               1,691.2 1,063.1   854.0   379.8   266.0 4,254.1
Recurrent Costs
Operating costs                       47.9    64.0   103.8   156.0   160.0   531.7
Total Recurrent Costs                   47.9    64.0   103.8   156.0   160.0   531.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                   1,739.1 1,127.0   957.7   535.9   426.1 4,785.8
Mon Feb 14 17:55:12 1994
OQ
x
Fh
.0



Romania
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ 1000)
Strengthening                                         Public
of the                                           Awareness/   Management
Wardens    Ecosystem    Polder       Ecosystem   Community        and
Department   Monitoring Restoration Restoration Involvement Coordination  Total_
Investment Costs
Civil Works                                342.0           -        172.5        616.1            -             - 1,130.7
Vehicles and Boats                         324.9        54.0          2.8            -         15.5             -   397.2
Equipment and Supplies                     241.4       450.7        262.4        450.8       130.6              - 1,536.0
Technical Assistance and Studies            50.9       137.1        145.9        153.2         23.0          17.3   527.4
Training                                   369.4        41.5         52.9            -            -         199.0   662.9
Total Investment Costs                     1,328.7       683.2        636.6      1,220.1        169.1         216.3 4,254.1
Recurrent Costs
Operating costs                            353.4        34.5         13.8        122.7          7.3             -   S31.7        1
Total Recurrent Costs                        353.4        34.5         13.8        122.7          7.3             -   531.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                         1,682.2       717.7        650.4      1,342.9        176.4         216.3 4,785.8        4
Taxes                                        33.1         2.4         10.5         35.3          0.4             -    81.7
Foreign Exchange                            578.2       609.9        326.4        423.3        152.0        200.3 2,290.0
Mon Feb 14 17:55:02 1994
PJ m
0
4DI



Romania
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Table 1. Strengthening of the Hardens Department
Detailed Costs
(uss 'ooo)
Ouantities               Unit                          Base Cost
Unit     1994  1225_ 1996  1997  1998  Total QoW_   1994          1s95     1996      1997      199B    Total
Investment Coats
Civil Works
Housing Flats                                 no.         10     5      5     -      -    20  10.0   100.00    50.00    50.00           -        -   200.00
Field Stations                                sum          2     1      1     -      -     4  20.0    40.00    20.00    20.00           -        -    80.00
Youth Teams /a                              lumpsum        1     1      1     1     1      5   5.0      5.0      5.00    .S00       S. 00    5.00    25.00
Subtotal Civil Works                                                                                    145.00    75.00    75.00       5.00     5.00   305.00
Vehicles and Boats
Four Wheel Drive (Romanian)                   no.          2     1      1     -     -      4   5.5    11.00      5.50      5.50         -        -    22.00
Sand Tractors                                 no.          1     1      1     -            3   5.0      5.00     5.00      5.00         -        -    15.00
Rubber Boats and Engines (6 hp)               no.          6     2      2     -     -    10   5.0    30.00    10.00    10.00            -        -    50.00
Boat Hulls                                    no.          5     2      2     1           10   1.5      7.50     3.00      3.00     1.50         -    15.00
Engines                                       no.          5     2      2     1     1    11   2.0    10.00       4.00      4.00     2.00      2.00    22.00
Hlydroglide Boats                             no.          1     1      -     -      -     2  20.0    20.00    20.00          -         -        -    40.00
Jet Boac                                      no.          1     -      _     _      -     1  10.0    10.00          -        -         _              10.00
Mobile Trng. Center (boat)                    no.          1     -      -     -      -     1 100.0   100.00          -        -         -         -   100.00
Motorbikes (150-200cc)                        no.          6     2      2     _      _    10   1.5      9.00     3.00      3.00         -        -    15.00
Horses / Equipment                            no.          6     2      2     -     -    10   0.3       1.50     0.50   O.50            -        -      2.50
Subtotal Vehicles and Boats                                                                             204.00    51.00    31.00      3.50      2.00   291.50
Equipment and supplies
Portable 2 way 20 km range radios             no.         20    20    20      -           60   0.8    16.00    16.00    16.00           -        -    48.00
Base Station Radios 100 km range              no.          6     3      4     -      -    13   1.5      9.00     4.50      6.00         _        -    19.50
Radio Installation/ Service                  year          I     -      -     -     -      1   5.0      5.00        -         -         -        -      5.00
Video Camera                                  no.          1      1     1     -      -     3   1.0      1.00     1.00      1.00         -         -     3.00
Uniderwater video                             n1o.         -     1      -     -      -     1   3.0         -     3.00         -         -        -      3.00
Video Recorder                                no.          1      -                        1   1.0      1.00         -        -         _        _      1.00                      Un
Color TV (portable)                           no.          1     -      _            _     1   0.5      0.50         -        -         -        -      0.50                      CO
Night Binoculars                              no.          6     6      6        -        18   0.7      4.20     4.20      4.20         -        -    12.60
Day Binoculars                                no.         30    10    10      -      -    50   0.1      3.00     1.00      1.00         -        -      5.00
Portable Battery Lights                       no.         15    15    10      -      -    40   0.3      4.50     4.50      3.00         -        -    12.00
35mm camera/ accessories                      no.          3     3      4     -     -    10   0.5       1.50     1.50      2.00         -        -     5.00
Spotting Scope tripods                        no.          4     3      3     -      -    10   0.2      0.80     0.60      0.60         -               2.00
Slide ProjecLor/Screen                        no.          1     -      -                  1   0.4      0.40         -        -         -        -      0.40
Fax machine                                   no.          1               -               1   1.0      1.00        -         -                         1.00
Photocopier                                   no.          1     -      -     -     -      1   2.5      2.50         -        -         -        -      2.SO
Answerphone                                   no.          I                                1   0.1    0.10         -        -                         0.10
Desk top computer                             no.          -      1     -     -      -     I   1.5         -     1.50         -         -         -     1.50
Lap top computer                              no.          1     -      -     -      -     1   2.5      2.50         -        -         -        -      2.50
Laser Princer                                 no.          1      -                         1   1.0    1.00         -        -                         1.00
Field Guides                                  set        100    45    45      -      -   190            3.00     1.35      1.35         -        -      5.70
Waterproof Clothing Gear                     sets        100      -   100     -      -   200   0.2    15.00          -    15.00         -        -    30.00
Uniforms (summer/winter)                      set        100          100            _   200   0.1    10.00          -   .10.00         _              20.00
Tents - 2 to 4 persons                        no.         20    10    10      -      -    40   0.3      6.00     3.00      3.00         -         -    12.00
Sleeping Bags                                 no.         20    10    10      -      -    40   0.1      1.00     0.50      0.50         -        -      2.00
Global Position Indicator (GPS)   -           no.          1     1      -     -      -     2   2.0      2.00     2.00         -         -        -      4.00
Diving Equipment                             unit          1     1      -     -     -      2   1.2      1.20     1.20         -         -        -     2.40
Miscellaneous office Supplies               lumpsum        1     1      1     1      1     5   0.5      0.50     0.50      0.50     0.50      0.50     2.50                    0)
Tape recorders etc.                           no.          3     2      -     -      -     5   0.5      1.50     1.00         -         -        -      2.50                  00 P
Training Materials                            set          1      1     I     1      -     4   1.0      1.00     1,00  1.00  1. 00 I         _On -------  40.0
Subtotal Equipment and Supplies                                                                          95.20    48.35    65.15       1.50     0.50   210.70                     C-
Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                                                 h
Training Officer                             mmts          3      -     -     -      -     3  13.5    40.50          -        -         -        -    40.50                    0h
Per diem                                     mmts          3            -            -     3   1.5      4.50        -         -         -        -     4.50
Ticket                                       mmts          1            -            -     1   1.0      1.oo         -        - ----------              1.00 4.
1-1 Strengthening of the Wardens Department



Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                            46.00                                           46.00
Training
Oversees Study
Tickets /b                                  no.          8      -     -      -           8   1.0      8.00         _                            -     8.00
Per diem                                    no.          8      -     -   e -      -          3.0    24.00         -         -        -         -    24.00
Tucion Fee /c                               no.                 -     -      -     -     8   1.5    12.00          -         ;        -         -    12.00
Tickecs                                     no.          1      -     -      -     -          1.0     1.00         -         -        -         -     1 00
Per diem (expatriate)                      week          1      -     -     -      -     1   0.3   0.30            - , _     -        -         -     03
Subtotal Overseas Study                                                                                45.30         -         -        -         -    45.30
Section Head Internship
Tickets                                     no.          -      4     -      -     -     4   1.0         -      4.00              -        -          4.00
Per Diem                                    no.          -     2      -     -      -     2   8.4         -    16.80         -         -         -    16.80
Tution Fees /d                              no.          -     4      -     -      -     4   1.5         -. 6. 00            -        -         -     6 00
Subtotal Section Heed Internship                                                                           -    26.80          -        -         -    26.80
Warden Foundation Course /s
Transport                                 course         2     2      2     2      2    10   1.0      2.00      2.00     2.00      2.00      2.00    10.00
Per diem                                  course         2     2      2     2      2    10   2.0      4.00     4.00      4.00      4.00     4.00    20.00
Fees                                        no.          2     2      2     2     2    10   0.8       1.50      1.50     2.50      1.50      1.50     7.50
Haterials                                   no.          2     2      2     2      2    10   0.5   1.00 1. 00   1.00  1.S 00   1.00   5.00
Subtotal Warden Foundation Course                                                                       8.50      8.50     8.50      8.50      8.50    42.50
Patrol Induction Year
Romania Field Trip /f                      trip          -    10    10    10    10    40   1.0           -    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    40.00
Ukraine field Trip                         trip          -    10    10    10    10    40   1.0           - ..     112          ---IO 00 1Q0 000 1   0  00
Subtotal Patrol Induction Year                                                                             -    20.00    20.00    20.00    20.00    80.00
Section Specialization Courses
Materials/ Course /9                      course         -      -     1     1      1     3   2.0         -         -     2.00      2.00      2.00     6.00
Per diem and transportation fees          course         -     -      1     1      1     3   3.0         -         -                         33 00  .  00.300.9.00
Subtotal Section Specielisation Courxes                                                                    -               5.00      5.00      5.00    15.00
Indepth Courses
Travel, Materials and per diem            course         -      -     -    12      -    12   1.5         -         -         -    18.00         -    18.00
Local teacher fee                         course         -      -    12     -      -    12   0.2         -               2  Q.24      -         -     2 40
Subtotal Indepth Courses                                                                                   _               2.40    18.00          -    20.40
Language lab and Skills
Warden per diem                            year          I      1     1     1      1     5  12.0    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    60.00
Warden travel costs                        year          1     1      1     1      1     5   1.2      1.20      1.20     1.20      1.20      1.20     6.00                    bn
Trainer fee                                year          1      1     1      1     1     S   2.4      2.40      2.40     2.40      2.40      2.40    12.00
Trainer per diem                           year          1      1     1     1      1     5   1.6      1.60      1.60     1.60      1.60      1.60     8.00
Tape recorders set of 10                    no.          1      -     -     1      1     3   1.5      1.50         -         -     1.50      1.50     4.50
Materials                                  year          1     1      1     1      1     5   0.5       AcoD     50.   0 .050       o 50      050      2..S
Subtotal Language lab and Skills                                                                       19.20    17.70    17.70    19.20    19.20    93.00
Construction Skills                          unit          1      1     1     1      1     S   0 7      0 70 0L70 _.0.70             0 70      0          170
Subtotal Training                                                                                        73.70    73.70         30    71        5340    326250
Total Investment Costs                                                                                    563.90   248.05   225.45    81.40    60.90 1,179.70
Recurrent Costs
Operating Costs
4 WD Vehicles (2500 litre/car/yr(         '000 litres      -  17.5  17.5  17.5  17.5    70   0.3           -      5.25     5.25      5.25      5.25    21.00
(18)Boats (1500 litre/car/yr)             '000 litres      -  27.5  27.5  27.5  27.5   110   0.3           -     8.25      8.25      8.25     8.25    33 .00
Training Boat                             '000 litre      10    10    10    10    10    50   0.3        3.00      3.00      3.00     3.00      3.00    15.00
Increased Staff Costs                        year         20    50    80   120   120   390   0.6 .. L 0    3-_J_ 0        48  00    72100l00    0_.234 00
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                      fl5l -0 465         64j50 __81 50      8850   303A 00
Total                                                                                                      578.90   294.55   289.95   169.90   149.40 1,482.70
\a US$5000 per year.
\b 8 participants for 30 days, 1 foreign expatriate to visit Tulcea for one week.
\c 8 participants for a month                                                                                                                                                      (v
\d 4 participants for a month.
\e 20 wardens per course
\f 10 trips s year with 12 participants. 
\g once a year for 2 weeks.
Mon Feb 14 17:4610 1994                                                                                                                                                           4.5
1-2 Strengthening of the Wardens Department



Romania
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Table 2. Ecosystem Monitoring
Detailed costs
(US$ '000)
ouantities               Unit                    Base Cost
Unit  122 1_1 1    1f96  1997  199A  Total Cost_ 194   1995   1929   1997   1998  Total
investment Costs
Flora & Fauna Monitoring DDI
Vehicles and Boats
4 wheel drive                                    no.        I      1     -     -      -     2   7.0   7.00   7.00        -       -      -  14.00
Sand Tractors                                    no.        1      -     -      -     -     1   5.0   5.00        -      -       -      -   5.00
Rubber Boats (6 hp) and engine                   no.        1      -     -      -     -     i   4.0   4.00        -      -       -      -   4.00
Wood Boats and 6 hp engines                      no.        3      2     2      -     -     7   1.5   4.50   3.00   3.00         -      -  10.50
Aluminium boats and 25 hp engines                no.        I      -     -                  1   4.0   4.00        -      -       -      -   4.00
Trailer                                          no.        I      1                        2   3.0  3.00   3 o           -    -_            6.on
Subtotal Vehicles and Boats                                                                             27.50  13.00   3.00        -      - 43.50
Equipment and Supplies
Portable radio Phones                            no.        6      -     -                  6   0.8   4.80        -      -       -      -   4.80
Stationary radio phones                          no.        I      -                        1   3.0   3.00        -      -       -      -   3.00
Global Positioning System                         no.       2      1     -      -     -     3   3.0   6.00   3.00        -       -      -   9.00
Rechargeable lights                              no.       10      -     -     -      -    10   0.2   2.00        -      -       -      -   2.00
Chargeable batteries, charger sets               no.        1      -                        1   0.1   0.10        -      _                   0.10
Cameras                                          no.        1      -                        1   1.0   1.00        -                     _   1.00
Day Binoculars                                   no.        8      -     -     -      -     8   0.2   1.60        -      -       -      -   1.60
Night Binoculars                                 no.        2      -                        2   0.5   1.00               -                   1.00
3 person tent                                    no.        3      -     -     -      -     3   0.3   0.90        -      -       -      -   0.90
Sleeping Bags, camp gear                         no.       10      -     -     -      -    10   0.2   2.00        -      -       -      -   2.00
Waterproof clothing                              no.       15      -     -                 15   0.5   7.50        -      -       -      -   7.50
Generators                                       no.        1      -                        1   1.0   1.00        -      _                   1.00
Video Cameras                                     ro.       1      -     -      -     -     1   0.5   0.50        -      -       -       -   0.50
Plant Transect Equipment                         no.      0.5      -     -      -     -   0.5   5.0   2.50        -      -       -      -   2.50                                  CI
Bird Spotting Scopes                             no.        2      -     -      -     -     2   0.3   0.60        -      -       -      -   0.60                                  0
Waterproof paper, pencils                        no.      0.5      -     -      -     -   0.5   1.0   0.50        -      -       -      -   0.50
Waterproof clothing sets                         no.        8      -     -      -     -     a   0.3   2.00        -      -       -      -   2.00
Fish nets set                                    no.        1      -     -      -     -     1   0.6   0.60        -      -       -      -   0.60
Fish computer sortware                           no.        1                               1   1.0   1.00        -      -       -      -   1.00
Fish Scale Set                                   no.        1                         -     1   2.0   2.00        -      -       -      -   2.00
Fish / depth echosounder                         no.        1                               1   1.0   1.00        -      -       -      -   1.00
Plankton filters                                 no.        5      -     -      -     -     5          0.10       -      -       -      -   0.10
Chorophyll Membrane filters                       no.       2      2     2      2     2    10          0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.20
Slide Film and Processing                         no.     130   130   130   130   130   650            1.30   1.30   1.30   1.30   1.30   6.50
Video tapes - set of S                            no-.      5      5     S      5     5    25          0.15   0.15   0.15   0.15   0.15   0.75
Pldnt presses, archiving                          no.     0.5      -     -      -     -   0.5   1.0   0.50        -      -       -      -   0.50
Mist nets                                         no.      10      -     -      -     -    10          0.30       -      -       -       -   0.30
Flora/ Fauns field guides                        no.       10      -     -      -     -    10          0.20       -      -       -      -   0.20
Bird ringing secs                                 no.       4         -      -        -     4   1.0   4.00        -      -       -      -A40
Subtotal Equipment end Supplies                                                                         48.19   4.49   1.49   1.49   1.49  57.15
Equipment for DDI Siodiversity Center
Furniture sets                                    set       S      -     -      -     -     5   1.0   5.00        -      -       -       -   5.00
Desktop compucers and printers                    no.       2      -     -      -     -     2   3.0   6.00        -       -      -      -   6.00
Photocopiers                                      no.       I                               1   2.5   2.50        -                          2.50
Laptop computer/printer                           no.       1      -     -      -     -      1   3.0   3.00       -       -      -      -   3.00                               Fd
Ansaphones                                        no.        I     -                         I -  -  1   0.1   0.08  -    -      -       -   0.08
Fax machine (BD center)                           no.       I      -                             0.5   0.50       -                          0.50                              XD D
Telephones (BD center)                            no.       4      -     -      -     -     4   0.1   0.40        -       -      -      -   0.40                               X'
Tape recorder, tapes, head phones                 no.        1     -     -      -     -      1   0.5   0.50       -       -      -       -   0.50
Books, Paper, Flip charts                          lp     0.5             -       -       0.5   5.0   2.50        -       -      -       -   2.50                              0
TV sets, Video Recorder                           no.        1     - I                -      1   0.5   0.50       -       -      -       -   0.50                              hh
Slide Projector, screen                           no.        1     -     -      -     -      1   0.4  0.40        -       -   _          -   0 40                              pa
2-1 Ecosystem Monitoring



Subtotal Equipment for DDI Biodivereity Center                                                                        21.38        -        -       -        -  21.38
Bird Life Ornithologist
Ticket /a                                               year        2       2      2      2      2      10    1.0    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00   10.00
Per Diem /b                                             mmets       2      2       a      2      2     10    1.0 .2. 00         g 200 2.00   .00    2.00  10.00
Subtotal Bird Life Ornithologist                                                                                        4.00       4.00    4.00  .A00  4.00  20.00
Subtotal Flora & Fauna Monitoring DDI                                                                                  101.07  21.49    8.49    5.49    5.49 142.03
Hydrological Monitoring
CurrentmeLers                                              each        3      -      -       -      -      3   4.0  12.00          -        -       -        -  12.00
15m Suspensilon Cables                                    eachi       4       -      -      -       -      4   0.2    0.92         -        -       -        -   0.92
Winches                                                    each        3      -      -       -      -      3   1.5    4.50         -        -       -        -   4.50
Weights 30 lbs.                                           each         3      -      -      -       -      3   0.2    0.60         -        -       -        -   0.60
Weights 50 lbs.                                           each         3      -      -      -       -      3   0.4    1.20         -        -       -        -   1.20
Distomats                                                 each         3      -      -       -      -      3   7.7  23.10          -        -       -        -  23.10
Reflectors                                                each         3      -      -      -       -      3   1.2    3.60         -        -       -        -   3.60
Level, Staff, Tripod                                      set          2      -      -      -       -      2    3.0    6.00        -        -       -        -   6.00
Recording gauges                                          each       12       -      -      -       -    12   2.5   30.00          -        -       -        -  30.00
Susp. Sediment Samplers                                   each         3      -      -       -      -      3   0.6    1.80         -        -       -        -   1.80
Thermometer (electric)                                     each        3      -      -       -      -      3   1.2    3.60         -        -       -        -   3.60
Bedload Samplers                                          each         3      -      -       -      -      3   1.8    5.40         -        -       -        -   5.40
Recording Echo Sounders                                   each         3      -      -       -      -      3   3. 0    9.00        -        -       -        -   9.00
Radio Telephones                                          each         3      -      -       -      -      3   2.0    6.00         -        -       -        -   6.00
Boat                                                      each         1      -      -       -      -      1   2.0    2.00         -        -       -        -   2.00
08 motor 25 hp.                                           each         1      -      -                     1   3.0    3.00         -        -       -          -   3.0
Extia Chaits (pack of 54)                                 pack         -      -     12      -    12       24               -       -   0.36         -   0.36    0.72
Solar Panel, Battery                                      set         12      -      -              -    12   0.8  9.60            -        -       -         -J9.6
Subtotal Hydrological Monitoring                                                                                       122.32         -   0.36         -   0.36 123.04
Training/Seminar - DDI
Conference Production Cost                                  lp      0.2       -      -      -       -   0.2   10.0    2.00         -        -       -        -   2.00
Shorc courses abroad                                        lp         2      -      -       -      -      2   5.0  10.00          -        -       -        -  10.00
Funds for Publications, journals                            Ip      0.3       -      -      -       -   0.3    5.0    1.50         -        -       -        -   1.50
Publication DDBR Red Data Book                              lp      0.2       -      -      -       -   0.2   10.0  2.00           -        -       -        - 20Q
Subtotal Training/Seminar - DDr                                                                                         15.50         -       -                    15.50
Data Management /SIS
Technical Assistance and Training -DDI
Principal Investigator- Univ. of Mass.                  mmts        a      -       -      -      -       8   0.6    4.80         -       -        -       -   4.80 
Project Coordinator                                     mmts        8      -       -      -      -       8   2.5  20.00          -       -        -       -  20.00                                     1~
GIS Specialist /c                                       mmts        4       -      -      -       -      4   3.0  12.00          -       -        -       -  12.00
Satellite Spec.                                         mats        2      -       -             _       2   1.5    3.00         -       -        -       -   3.00
Per diem  (Specialist in Romania) /d                    mmts        6      -                            6   1.2    7.20                                        7.20
Airline Tickets                                         no.        12       -      -      -      -     12   2.0  24.00           -       -        -       -  24.00
Per diem  ( for 2 Romanians in the U.S) /e              mmts       16      -       -      -      -    16   2.0  32200            -       -        -    _      3.2.00
Subtotal Technical Aecietance and Training -DDI                                                                      103.00        -        -       -        - 103.00
Equipment - DDI
GIS Woikstation, ARCINFO                                no.         I       -      -      -       -      1  25.0  25.00          -       -        -       -  25.00
GPS Unit                                                year        1       1      1      1       1      5   6.3    6.30    6.30    6.30    6.30    6.30   31.50
GPS Base Station                                        year        I       1      1      1       1      5  11.0  11.00   11.00   11.00   11.00   11.00  55.00
ARC View                                                year        I       1      1      1      1       5   0.8    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    4.00
Disk Storage                                            no.         I                             -      1   3.0    3.00         -       -        -       -   3.00
Tape Back up                                            no.         i       -      -      -       -      I   2.5    2.50         -       -        -       -   2.50
PC Station                                              no.         I       -      -      -       -      1   3.0    3.00         -       -                     3.00
Power Supply                                            no.         1       -      -      -      -       1   1.0    1.00         -       -        -       -   1.00
Digitizing Tablet                                       no.          1      -      -      -       -      1   5.0    5.00         -       -        -        -   5.00
Lazer Printer                                           no.         1       -      -      -       -      1   1.2    1.20         -       -        -        -   1.20
large Plotter                                           no.         I       -      -      -       -      1   2.0    2.00         -       -        -       -   2.00                                 'U
Small Plotter                                           no.          1      -      -      -       -      1   2.0    2.00         -       -        -       -   2.00
Ether Net                                               no.         1              _      -       -      1   0.5    0.50         -       -        -       -   0.50                                   m(D
Satellite data                                          no.          I      -      -      -       -      1   6.3    6.30         -       -        -       -   6.30                                      X
Computer Maintenance Contract                           year         I      1      1      1       1      5   2.4    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40   12.00                                      1_
Tapes, Plotter, Supplies                                no.          I                            -      1   2.5   2.50          -       -        -       -   2.50                                  a
Phone, copies                                           no.         I                                    1   0.8    0.80         -       -        -       -   0.80                                  Fh
Shipping                                                no.         I       -      -                     1   3.0    3.00         -       -        -       -   3.00                                  ,_
Publication charge                                      no.         I                                    1   2.6    2.60         -       -        -       -   2.60
2-2 Ecosystem Monitoring



University of Mass. Overhead on T.A              no.                                                  10-30       - ....                    103 
Subtotal Squipment - VDI                                                                                91.20  20.50  20.50  20.50  20.50 173.20
gquipment snd Materials (NRA Dept.) /t
Computer                                         no.        -      -     I      -     -     1   3.3       -       -   3.30       -      -   3.30
Monitor                                           no.       -      -                         1   1.6      -            1.60     -           1.60
Laser Printer                                    no.        -      -     1      -     -     I   1.8       -       -   1.80       -      -   1.60
Inkjet Plotter                                   no.        -      -     1     -      -     I   1.0       -           1.00       -           1.00
Software and Network                             no.        -      -            -     -     1   2.0       -       -   2.00       -      -   2.00
Data from the institute                            lp       -      -     1                  I  10.0       -          10.00                  10.00
Digitizer                                        no.        -      -     1      -     -     1   2.7       -       -   2.70       -      -   2.70
Plotter                                          no.        -      -                        1   6.5                   6.50       -      -   6.50
Read writable disk                               no.        -      -     1            -     1   3.0       -       -   3.00       -      -   3_0
Subtotal Equipment and Materials (NRA Dept.)                                                                           31.90                  31.90
Training -DDBRA
Per diem in U.S.                                month       a      -     -      -     -     8   2.0  16.00        -      -       -      -  16.00
Airline Tickets                                   no        3      -     -      -     -     3   2.0  6L00  -.00 -                -      -
Subtotal Training -DDURA                                                                                22.ao       -                         22 00
Subtotsl Dsta Management /ISi                                                                            2116.0  20.50  52.40  20L50  20.sq330 10_
Total Investment Costs                                                                                     455.09  41.99  61.25  25.99  26.35 610.67
Recurrent Costs
Operating Costs
Equipment Operating Cost                          amount                                                23j00   2a10   3.10   1        _ 3030 10  0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                       23oo0    10&   3Q 10 .J 1     .1J3  3L0JR
Total                                                                                                       478.09  44.09  64.35  27.29  27.65 641.47
\a Twice a year.
\b Twice a year.
\c Includes fringe Benefits.
\d 2 specialists in Romania CDDT)
\e for 8 months for 2 Romanians.
\f NRA- Natural Resources Assessment Department in DDBRA
Mon Feb 14 1746:51 1994
0'
P 
00
MtD
1h
4H-
2-3 Ecosystem Monitoring



Romania
Danube Delta BJodiversity Project
Table 3. Polder Restoration
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Ouantitiea               Unit                    Base Coat
Unit     1924  1995  1996  1221_99 Ta tal Cost   1994   199a 1996   1997   1998  Total
Investment Coats
Polder Restoration - Civil Works
Phase 1 Polders
Babina                                               '000m       23      -      -     -     -    23   0.3   6.90        -       -      -       -   6.90
lolbina I                                            '000m       47      -      -     -     -    47   0.3  14.10        -       -      -       -  14.10
Cernovca                                             '000m         -    24      -     -     -    24   0.3        -   7.20       -      -       -   7.20
llolbina 11                                          '000m              99      _                 99   0.3       -.29.70   _                _    29.70
Subtotal Phase 1 Polders                                                                                       21.00  36.90       -      -       -  57.90
Phase 2 Polders
Enidala, 6 Martie, Murighiol, Rusca                  '000m         -     -    33    33      -    66   0.3        -      -   9.90   9.90        -  19.S0O
6 other Polders                                      '000m         -          20    40    63   123   0.3         -      -   6.00  12.00  198.90  3.9_
Subtotal Phaee 2 Polders                                                                                           -      -  15.90  21.90  18.90 L   6.70
Subtotal Polder Restoration - Civil Works                                                                        21.00  36.90  15.90  21.90  18.90 114.60
Hydrological Equipment
4 wd vehicle                                            no.                                          I -  -  -  -  1  10.0  10.00  -  -  -       -  10.00
Recording gauges                                       each          S     -      -     -      -     5   2.5  12.50       -       -      -       -  12.50
Staff gauges                                           each         20            _ -               20   0.1   2.00       -       -      -       -   2.00
Current mecer                                          each         20     -      -     -      -    20   0.4   8.00       _              _       -   8.00
Level Tripod, staff                                     set          2     _      _     _            2   3.0   6.00       -       -      -       -   6.00
10 hp out board motor                                  each          2     -      _     _      _     2   2.5   5.00       -       -      -       -   5.00
Rubber boat                                            each          2     -      -            _     2   1.2   2.40       -       -              -   2.40
Boat Trailer                                           each          2     -      -     -      -     2   0.5   1.00       -       -      -       -   1.00
Fluorescent dye                                         ls           -     1      -     -      -     1   1.0       -   1.00       -      -       -   1.00
Laptop computer                                        each          2     -            _            2   2.4  4.80        -   _                   _ A_"I
Subtotal Hydrological Equipment                                                                                  51.70   1.00       -       _         52.70                         0%
Field Water Analysis Equipment                                                                                                                                                      La
Water Analysis Kit                                      kit          2     -      -     -      -     2   3.0   6.00       -       -      -       -   6.00
Refill Packages                                         no          20     -      -    40      -    60   0.5  10.00       -       -  20.00       -  30.00
Turbidity Meter                                         no           2     -            _ -          2   0.7   1.40        _      _       -          1.40
Water Sampler                                           no           2     -      -     .      -     2   0.5   1.00       -       -      -       -   1.00
Van Veen Grab Dredge                                    no           1     -      -     -      -     1   1.8   1.80        -      -       -      -   1.80
Subsurface Grab Sampler                                 no           2     -      -     -      -     2   1.0   2.00       -       -      -       -   2.00
Dissolved oxygen meter                                  no           2     -      -     -      -     2   1.4   2.80       -       -      -       -   2.80
pH Meter                                                iio          2     -      -     -      -     2   0.4   0.80       -       -      -       -   0.80
Bomb Sampler                                            no           1     -      -     -      -     1   0.6   0.60       -       -      -       -   0.60
La Motce Sampler                                        1o           1     -      -     -      -     1   0.2   0.20       -       -      -       -   0.20
Miscellaneous Supplies                                  ls           -     -      1     -      -     2   3.0       -       -   3.00       -      -   3.00
Gaschromatograph                                       each          -     -      1     -      -     1  35.0       -       -  35.00      -       -  35.00
Spectrophotometer                                      each          -     1      -     -      -     1  24.0       -  24.00       -      -       -  24.00
Analytical Balanice                                    each          I                               1   3.0   3.00        -      -      -       -   3.00
Distiller                                              each          1     -      _     -      _     1   2.0   0.Q  _ __....      --_            -   2.00
Subtotal Field Water Analysis Equipment                                                                        . 31.60  24.00  38.00  20.00        - 113.60
Engineering and Technical Assistance
Phase 1 Topo Survey                                   '000 ha    3.37  4.68       -     -     -  8.05   5.0  16.85  23.40         -      -       -  40.25
Phase I Mapping                                       '000 ha    3.37  4.68       -     -      -  8.05   1.0   3.37   4.68        -      -       -   8.05                     V
Flood level study phase 1                              mmts          2     2      -     -      -     4   0.2   0.40   0.40        -      -       -   0.80                    0  >
Baseline Soil, Veg. water quality                      mits          8     8      -     -      -    16   0.2   1.60   1.60        -      -       -   3.20                        x .
Annual Monitoring                                      mits          8    16    16    16    16    72   0.2   1.60   3.20   3.20   3.20   3.20  14.40
Faunal Surveys                                         mmts          1     2      2     2     2      9   0.2   0.20   0.40   0.40   0.40   0.40   1.80                        O  F'
Transporc 80 hrs/Polders/yr                          '000 hrg.   0.16  0.32  0.32  0.32  0.32  1.44   9.0   1.44   2.88   2.88   2.88   2.88  12.96
WWF                                                    mmts          2     1      -     -      -     3             -      -       -      -       -      -
WWF Travel roundtrip                                   mmts          4     2      -     -      -     6   0.6   2.40   1.20        -      -           3.60
WWF Princing Mapping                                    lp           -     2      -     _            2   1.6       -   3.20       -      -       -   3.20
3-1 Polder Restoration



Phase 2 Topo Survey                                       '000 ha         -        -   8   B.4       8  24.4   0.2         -       -   1.60   1.68   1.60   4.88
Phase 2 mapping                                           '000 ha         -      -     8   8.4       8  24.4   0.2         -       -   1.60   1.68   1.60   4.88
Phase 2 Flood level studies                                mts            -      -     3      4      3    10   0.2         -       -   0.60   0.80   0.60   2.00
Phase 2 Baseline Surveye                                   mmts           -      -    12    16    12    40   0.2           -       -   2.40   3.20   2.40   8.00
Phase 2 Annual Monitoring                                  mmts           -      -    12    28    40    80   0.2           -       -   2.40   5.60   8.00  16.00
Phase 2 Faunal surveys                                     mmts           -      -   1.5   3.5       5    10   0.2         -       -   0.30   0.70   1.00   2.00
Phase 2 Transport 80 hrs/polder                          '000 hrs.        -      -  0.24  0.56   0.8   1.6   0.9 -           - ----     0 .22 ___5Q   0 . 72  1.44
Subtotal Engineering and Technical Aesistance                                                                            27.86  40.96  15.60  20.64  22.40 127.46
Training
DDI TLaining (WWF travel)                                  trip           2            2      -      -      4   0.6   1.20         -   1.20        -       -   2.40
Chemists Training Biesbos                                   no.           3      -     2          -         S   1.0   3.00         -   2.00        -       -   5.00
Chemists Training Per diem                                  no.          30      -    26             -    56   0.2   6.00          -   5           -       -      a11 20
Subtotal Training                                                                                                        10.20       -   8.40         -       -  18.60
Reed Restoration Research
Reed Restoration Research (civil works)
Piping installed                                          ls           1      -      -      -             1   7.7   7.70         -       -       -       -   7.70
Sheet Drain Bariers                                  '000 sq ft.    10        -      -      -            10   0.9   9.00         -       -       -       -   9.00
Power Supply                                             km.           4      -      -      -             4   1.0   4.00         -       -       -       -   4.00
Pumping Station                                         each           I      _      _      _             1   4.5   4.50         -       -       -       -   4.50
Ponds and Ditches                                      '000m          40      -      -      -      -    40   0.3  12.00Q         -   _           -       -120
Subtotal Reed Restoration Reea-rch (civil works)                                                                       37.20       -       -       -       -  37.20
Read Restoration Research Equipment
Alpkem Autoanalyzer                                     each           1      -      -      -      -      1  33 .4  33.40            -       -           -  33.40
PC 486                                                  each           I      _      _      _             1   2.3   2.30         -       -       -       -   2.30
O0Sm Freezer                                            each           2      -      -      -      -      2   1.1   2.20         -       -       -       -   2.20
Willey Mill Lab                                         each           I      _      _                    1   2.0   2.00         -       -       -       -   2.00
Electric Pumps                                          each           8             -      -8   1.5  12.00                      -       -       -       -  12.00
Autoanalyzer Supplies                                     Is            1     I      1      1      -      4   1.0   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00            -   4.00
Lab Chemicals                                             ls           1      1      1      1      -      4   1.0   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00            -   4.00
Sampling Supplies                                         ls           1            1      1             4   0.5   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50            -   2.00
OB motor                                                each            1     -      -      -      -      1   2.5   2 .50        -       -       -       -   2 .50
Shipping                                                each         0.5   0.2   0.2   0.1         -      1   3 .4   1.70   0.68   0.68   0. 34          -   3 .40                           1
Communications                                           each       0.25  0.25  0.25  0.25         -      1   1.6   0.40   0. 40   0.40   0.40           -   1.60
Office Supplies                                         each        0.25  0.25  0.25  0.25         -      1   0.8       2Q0.    0.20Q  0.20    020       -   0.0 8
Subtotal Reed Restoration Research Equipment                                                                           59.20   3. 7    3.78   3 .44        -  70.20                            t
Reed Restoration - Training
Autoanalyzer School Teacher                              trip           1     -      -      -      -      1   2.4   2.40         -       -       -       -   2.40
Scudent Workers                                         each            3     3      3      3      -    12   0.3   0.90   0.90   0.90   0.90             -   3.60
Travel  /a                                                ls           4      2      2      1             9   2.5  10 00   5.00   5.00   2.50            -22,S0
Subtotal Reed Restoration - Training                                                                                   13.30Q  95.9Q  5.90   340           -  28 50
Subtotal Reed Restoration Research                                                                                      1097Q   9 i    9 68                --6 B4   lS9Q
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                    252.06 112.54  87.58  69 .38  41 .30 562.86
Recurrent Costa
Operating Costa
Vehicles (2500 litre/car/yr)                               'OOOL       2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5  12.5   0.3   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   3.75
Boats (1500 litre/boat/yr)                                '000 L          3      3      3     3      3    15   0.3  0.9_QQ   0.90   090 .0 90   0 90  4.50
Subtotal Operating Costs                                                                                                  1.65   1.65   1.65   1.65   1.65   8.25
Reed Reatoration Research
OB Motor Fuel                                             '000 L        1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5         -     6   0 .3   0.45   0 .45   0 .45   0.45         -   1.80
Pump Boat Maintenance                                       Is        0.25  0.25  0.25  0.25          -     1   2.0 0. sQ 50 050j   0L50  0. SOQ         - -   2 00
Subtotal Reed Restoration Research                                                                                        O95 _-,ss 5 095               ---- -   3-80
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                      __6    260Q  2.60   2  6Q   1.65  12-0S
Total                                                                                                                      254 .66 115.14  90 .18  71. 98  42. 95 574 .91
\a Roundtrip (USA/Romanial                                                                                                                                                                        m |
Mon Feb 14 17 47:18 1994
0
Fl
3-2 Polder Restoration



Romania
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Table 4. Ecosystem Restoration
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
0uantitiesi               Unit                          Base Cost
Unit     1994  1I95  1996  1997  1995  Total roar    1994          1995      1996      1997      1998  TJLAl
Investient Costa
Sturgeon Hatching
Civil Works
Buildings                                    each              0.5   0.5       -     -      1  40.0         -    20.00    20.00           -        -    40.00
Ponds                                        each          -      1     3      -     -      4   5.0         -      5.00    15.00          -        -    20.00
Piping Installed                              Is           -   0.5   0.5       -     -      1  30.0         -    15.00    15.00           -        -    30.00
Tanks and Basins                             each          -    15    31       -     -    46   1.9          -    28.50    58.90           -         -    87.40
Power line                                    km.          -     8      -      -     -      8   1.0         -      8.00         -         -        -      8.00
Transformer                                  each          -      1     -      -     -      1   2.0         -      200-                   -         -
Subtotal Civil Works                                                                                          -    78.50   108.90           -         -   187.40
Goode
Generator                                    each          -      I            _     _      1  15.0         -    15.00          -         _         _    15.00
Heating System                               each          -      1     _      _     -      1  30.0         -    30.00          -         -        -    30.00
Heat Exchanger                               each          -      4     -      -      -     4   7.5               30. 00        -         -         -    30.00
Pumps                                        each          -     4      -      -            4   1.5         -      6.00         -         -        -      6.00
Air Pumps                                    each          -      2     -      -            2   4 .0               8.00         -         -         -     8 00
Control Panel                                each          -      1     _      _     -      1  20.0         _    20.00          -         -              20.00
Water Conditioning Tanks                     each          -      3     -      -     -      2   2.5         -      5.00         -         -         -     5.00
Autom. Water Control                          set          -      1     -      -      -     1  25.0         -    25.00          -         -              25.00
Heater Solar Panel                            mm           -      -   100      -     -   100   0.1          -         -    10.00          -         -    10.00
Lab Equipment                                 set          -      -     I      _            1  20.0         _         -    20.00          -         -    20.00
Eleccric Fishing Equipment                    no.          -      -     2      -      -     2  12.5         -         -    25f00          -         -    25 0
Subtotal Gooda                                                                                                 -   139.00    55.00          -             194.00
Technical ABsistance & Training
Design                                       year          2      -     -      _      -     2  12.0    24.00          -         -                   -    24 .00
TA. (Foreign)                                mmts          3      1   0.5      1   0.5      6  10.0    30.00    10.00        5.00    10.00      5.00    60.00
T.A.  Travel                                 trip          2      1      1     1      1     6   2 .0     4 .00     2.00      2.00      2 .00    2.00    12.00                       ONn
Inservice Training                           mets         20      -     -      -     -    20   2.0    40 00           -         -         -         -
Subtotal Technical Assistance L Training                                                                  98  00       12.00   7-00    12 .00 7. 00 __36. 001
Subtotal Sturgeon Hatching                                                                                  98.00   229.50   170.90    12.00         7.00   517.40
Rust Removal
Cut and move Steel to Galati                  '000 t          -   200   400   400       - 1,000   0.1          -    12.00    24.00    24.00           -    60.00
Willow Planting
5 rows Double sided                             km.         10    20    40    40    13   123   1.0    10.00    20.00    40.00    40.00    13.00   123.00
Village woodlote
Fuel Wood Plantation                            ha           -    11       -     -      -    11   0.9          -     9.90         -         -         -     9.90
Eutrophication Flow Reduction
Civil Works
L. Fortunal Channel fill                      OOOm         -    19       -     _           19   2.1          -    39.90         -         -         -    39.90
Caraorman Entrance Fill                       'OOOm              20      -     -      -    20   2.1          -    42.00         -         -         -    42.00
Caraorman Rock Riprap                       '000 t          -   1.5      -     -      -   1.5  20.0          -     000-                   -         -    3000
Subtotal Civil Works                                                                                           -   111.90         -         -         -   111.90
Technical Assistance
Caraorian Engineering                        mets          2      -      _     _            2   0.3 0. 60             -         -         -         -     0 6
Subtotal Eutrophication Flow Reduction                                                                        0.60   111.90          -        _         _   112.50
Pilot Fingerling Protection
Civil Works                                                                                                                                                                       O
Escape Channel                                'Doom               _    10      -      _    10   0.3          -        -      3.00         -         --   3.00                      X
Submerged Screen                              '000m         -     -    60      -      -    60   0.3          -        -    15.00          -         -    15.00                   H F'
Electric Barrier                               is           -     -      1            -     1  15 0          -              1- _L                       -IS. O
Subtotal Civil Works                                                                                                          33
Tchical Assistance
Study Tour                                   each           -     3      -     -      -     3   5.0                 .           -                        15.00                  FH
4.5.
4-1 Ecosystem Restoration



Engineering
Mon Feb 14 17:47:40 1994
a'
0'
l
F-b
I*..
-C
4-2 tcouystem Reutoration~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



Romania
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Table 5. Public Awareness
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Ouantities                Unit                    Bage Cost
Unit  199i  1995  lS96  1997  1998  ToLal Cost   1994   199S   1996             1997   1998  Ttal
Investnent Costs
Equipment and Supplies - DDBRA /a
Lap top computer/printer                   no.        1     -      -                  1   3.0   3.00        -       -      -       -   3.00
Desktop computers and printers             each       1     1      -     -      -     2   3.0   3.00   3.00         -              _   6.00
Black and White Photocopiers               no.        1     -      -                  1   2.5   2.50        -                      ,   2.50
Color Printer                              no.        I     -      -     -      -     1   2.0   2.00        -       -      -           2.00
Tape recorders, capes, head Phones         no.        3     2      -     -      -     5   0.5   1.50   1.00         -       -      -   2.50
Books, paper, flip charts                   lp     0.5  0.25  0.25       -      -     I   5.0   2.50   1.25   1.25         -       -   5.00
TV set, Video Recorder                     each       1     -      -     -      -     1   o.s   0.50        -       -       -          0.50
Slide projector, screen                    each       1     -                         1   0.4   0.40        -       -      -       -   0.40
Overhead pro3ector                         no.        1     -                          1   0.3   0.30       -       -      -       -   0.30
Purchase of videos, books, posters          lp     0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2        1  10.0   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00  10.00
Our house poduction costs-printing          lp       10    10    10    10    10    50   1.0  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  50.00
Video Purchase rights                       lp        -     1      -     -      -     1  10.0        -  10.00       -       -      -  10.00
Video Local screenings                      lp        -     1      -                   1   2.0       -   2.00       -       -      -   2.00
Video Local production                      lp        -     1      -     -      -      1   5.0       -   5-o.00         -      -    -500
Subtotal Equipment and Supplies - DDBRA                                                           27.70  34.25  13.25  12.00  12.00  99.20
Pro Delta HGO equipment and ROB
Computer Equipment                         set        1     -      -     -      -     1   5.0   5.00        -       -       -      -   5.00
Photocopier                                set        I     -      -                  1   2.0   2.00        -                          2.00
Jeep                                       no.        2     -      -     -      -     2   7.0  14.00        -       -       -      -  14.00
Out house production                       no.        1     1      1     -      -     3   1.0   1.00   1.00   1.00          -      -   3.00
Video camera set                           set        -     2      -     -      -     2   1.0        -   2.00       -       -      -   2.00
Camera & accessories                       no.        2     -      -     -      -      2   1.0   2.00       -       -       -      -   2.00
Slide Projector/screen                     no.        2     -      -                  2   1.0   2.00        -       -      _        - 2.00                                          Ct
Subtotal Pro Delta NGO equipment and ROS                                                          26.00   3.00   1.00         -      -  30.00
Technical Assistance
Bird life PA specialist /b                 year       2     2      2     2      2    10   1.0   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00  10.00
Per diem  /c                               mmts      2      2     2      2      2    10   1.0   2.00   2. 00   2.00 .2.Z.0   .00  10&I.00
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                     4.00   4.00   4.00   4.00 _.00A  20.00
Total Investment Costs                                                                               57.70  41.25  18.25  16.00  16.00 149.20
Recurrent Costa
Operating Costs                             amount                                                 2.69   1.87   0.72   0.60   0.60   6.46
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                2.69    1.87   0.72   0.60   0.60   6.46
Total                                                                                                60.39  43.12  18.97  16.60  16.60 155.67
\a For intorsmation and education department and guide wardens.
\b Twice a year.
\c Twice a year
Mon Feb 14 17:49:49 1994
0x
La H
a
1-1 Public Awareness



Romania
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Table 6. Management and Coordination
Detailed Conte
(uS$ '000)
0-pantities                 Unic                      Base Cnst
Uai-t  121  155'  996   1ul7 96  Total   Cost l4 1995   I199 L                     1991   19    Total
Investment Costs
Black Sea Workshop
Public Awareness (Turkey)- Pirfare                     no.       I       -      -      -      -      1   1.0   t.00          -       -        -       -   1.00
Per dienm                                              no.       1       _      _             _      1   0.7    0.70         -       -        -       -   0.70
Planning WoGkshop (Ukrainel- Ticket                   no.        I       -      -                    I -   0.1   0.10        _       _        _       _   0.10
Per diemi                                             no.        1      -       -      -      -      1   0.4    0.40         -       -        -       -   0.40
Bird inventoty - Rutssia- ticket                      no.        I       -      -      -      -      I   0.1   0.10              -        -       -        0.10
Per diemi                                             no.        I      -       -      -      -      1   0.4 _eU40            -0- 0- 
Subtotal Black Sea Workshop                                                                                        2.70        -        -       -       -   2.70
Regional Accivities                                      no.        1      1      *      1      1      5   1.3    1.25    1.25    1.25    1.25    1.2S   6.25
Coop/ Ukraine GEF                                        no.        1      1      1      1      1      5   0.8    0.75    0.75    0.75   075   0.75    3.75
Procurement and Financial Management Assistance monith              3      1      I             _      5  16.5  49.50   16.50  16.50            -       -  82.50
Financial MGT/Progiam Coordination                      month      2       2      1      _      _      5  16.5  33.00  33.00  16.50             -       -  82.50
Scientific Advisory Committee                            lp         1      1      1      1      1      5   3.0    7.0 3      .00 3 .00__Q    3 Q0    L      15.00
Total                                                                                                                 90.20  54.50  38.00    5.00    5.00 192.70
Mon Feb 14 17:52:02 1994
00
0
F-h
a.d
1-1 Management and Coordination



- 69 -                          Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
THE LAW REGARDING THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DANUBE DELTA
BIOSPHERE RESERVE*
No. 82 / 7 December 1993
Article 1
The Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve (hereinafter the Reserve) is hereby established as
an area of national and international ecological importance which comprises the
following physical geographical units:
(i)    Danube Delta;
(ii)   Murighiol-Plopu, an area of high salinity;
(iii)  the Razim-Sinoie complex of lakes;
(iv)   the navigation channel to Cotul Pisicii;
(v)   the Isaccea-Tulcea flood zone;
(vi)  the Black Sea coast from the Chilia branch to the Midia cape;
(vii)  the internal navigation channels and the Black Sea waters to a depth of 20
metres.
The continental limit of the reserve follows the margin of the wetland areas
along the base of the Dobrogea hills.
Article 2
For the purposes of this law, the Biosphere Reserve shall mean the geographical zone
with dry lands and waters including those which are permanently inundated in which
exist physio-geographic features, or species of flora and fauna which have a special
biogeographical, ecological or aesthetic importance with national and international
natural heritage value, and having a special administrative structure with the object of
protecting and conserving this zone by the development of human settlements and by
the organisation of economic activities in accordance with the carrying capacity of the
deltaic environment and its natural resources.
Article 3
The territory of the Reserve is delimited as shown in the Annex by the zones (i) strictly
protected areas; (ii) buffer zones in which certain human activities are permitted; (iii)
transition zones or economic zones with ecological reconstruction measures in which
traditional economic activities are permitted.
Strictly protected areas must be surrounded by buffer zones.



- 70 -                             Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
Article 4
To administer this natural heritage contained within the nationally important public
lands of the Reserve and to protect and rehabilitate the physio-geographic units
described in Article 1, the Reserve Admninistration is hereby established, a public
institution with a legal identity with headquarters in Tulcea and under the
subordination of the Ministry of Water, Forestry and Environmental Protection.
The Reserve Administration is lead by a Scientific Council that supervises an Executive
Board which implements the decisions of the Scientific Council, the President of the
Scientific Council and the Chairman of the Executive Board being the Governor of the
Reserve. The Scientific Council shall include three persons nominated by Tulcea Judet
Council. The Governor and members of the Scientific Council are appointed by the
government of the recommendation of the Ministry of Water, Forestry and
Environmental Protection, and with the approval of Tulcea Judet Council and of the
Romanian Academy.
T he function of the Governor is equivalent to Under-Secretary of State.
The Scientific Council shall decide upon measures concerning fundamental
aspects of the Reserve.
The Corps of Inspection and Wardens shall be included within the Reserve
Administration. The Corps of Inspection and Wardens shall supervise the whole
territory of the Reserve and shall enforce the protection measures established in the
Reserve bye-laws.
Article 5
The organisation and function of the Reserve Administration shall be established under
its bye-laws that shall be approved by the Ministry of Water, Forestry and
Environmental Protection and the Romanian Academy and thereafter the Government
within 30 days of the date of enactment of this law. The bye-laws must be in line with
the international demands concerning environmental protection and restoration, as well
as with the international conventions of which Romania is a Contracting Party,
regarding the waterways of the Danube River and maritime sector of the Reserve.
In accordance with proposals from the Reserve Admiinistration, the Ministry of Water,
Forestry and Environmental Protection shall establish technical standards to prevent
pollution and deterioration of the ecological balance from economic activities, tourism
and recreation within the Reserve.
Article 6
The Reserve Administration has the following objects:
(a)    assessing the ecological status of the natural heritage, organising scientific
research, taking necessary measures for conservation and protection of genetic
resources and biodiversity;
(b)    establish  and  implement those  measures required  for the  ecological
reconstruction of the deltaic ecosystems;



- 71 -                          Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
(c)   identify, delimit and propose to the Ministry of Water, Forestry and
Environmental Protection for declaration the functional zones of the Reserve;
(d)    evaluate the status of natural resources and their level of exploitation in
accordance with their potential for regeneration and ecosystem support capacity;
(e)   to authorise the ways and means of the organisation of the economic,
productive, tourism and recreation activities by individuals and legal entities in
accordance with the requirements for conservation of biodiversity and specific
ecosystems;
(f)   to enforce the authorisations permitted under paragraph (e);
(g)   to support the traditional economic activities of the local inhabitants;
(h)   with regard for ecosystem protection, to approve proposals for land use
planning and urban developments in the Reserve in accordance with the law;
(i)   to establish, with the landowner, the places where and the conditions under
which hunting and sport fishing can be carried out;
()    to promote scientific research and international co-operation;
(k)   to promote public information and education concerning ecological issues;
(1)   to cooperate with the autonomous authority of Romanian Waters to implement
necessary hydraulic works;
(m)   to cooperate with inter-Ministerial and District commissions to mitigate
potential calamities and catastrophes;
(n)   to cooperate with local public administrations to defend the interests of local
inhabitants and to improve their quality of life and standards of living;
(o)   to establish together with the Ministry of Transport the regulations for
circulation and access on the river branches for boats, motorboats, river and sea-going
ships;
(p)   to enforce regulations concerning environmental protection in harbours and at
harbour facilities within the Reserve.
Article 7
The expenditure of the Reserve Administration will be met by an allocation from the
budget of State, from grants and from its own revenue.
Article 8
The local population within the Reserve have the right to continue local and specific
traditions and economic activities.
The Reserve Administration will ensure where appropriate and if necessary by
compensation the continuance of traditional economic activities.
Article 9
Within 30 days of the enactment of this law the government will approve, on basis of
the permit given by the Tulcea Judet, the boundaries of the functional zones described
in Article 3.



- 72-                            Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
Article 10
The terrestrial and aquatic surfaces including the land overlain by water which
comprise the Reserve together with their associated natural resources and natural
heritage within nationally important public lands under the direct administration of a
sole lead organisation for the reserve.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the previous paragraph, private property
belonging to individuals or legal entities or belonging to local or district authorities are
exempt.
The individuals or legal entities owing lands within the Reserve are required to
manage them according ecological or traditional means permitted by the scientific
authorities.
In order to utilise the terrestrial and aquatic resources within the economic
zones the Reserve Administration may, according to the provisions of this law, award
concessions or lease land and waters to legitimate companies, local population having
the right of pre-emtion.
Article 11
The scale of charges for licensing economnic, tourism and recreation activities within
the Reserve are made by the Tulcea Judet according to recommendations made by the
Reserve Administration.
Economic, tourism and recreation activities of individuals and legal entities,
other than those mentioned in Article 10, paragraph 4, shall be licensed by the District
Council of Tulcea on the basis of and environmental permit issued by the Reserve
Administration.
Article 12
The following activities are prohibited within the Reserve:
(1)    undertaking any land management or building works without a permnit from the
Reserve Administration;
(2) . sport fishing other than in designated areas within the permitted season;
(3)    collection or breaking of birds eggs, or destruction of nests, or destruction of
nesting sites;
(4)    making excessive noise within designated bird nesting areas;
(5)    entry by boat into closed areas;
(6)   taking photographs or making films for commercial purposes without a licence;
(7)    hunting birds (a) without payment of the licence fee, (b) outside of designated
areas, (c) outside the permitted season or in excess of the permitted level set by the
Reserve Administration;
(8)    breaking the speed limits;
(9)   the disembarkation of passengers or tourists outside of permitted areas except
by force of circumstances;
(10)  dumping or jettisoning waste, litter or other materials;
(11)  camping outside of designated areas;
(12)  grazing livestock on the territories of the Reserve without a permit from the
Reserve Administration;



73 -                          Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
(13) harvesting or burning reeds, club rush and hay within area comprising the
natural heritage of the Reserve without a permit from the Reserve Administration,
except the harvesting of reed, club rush and hay for the requirements of the local
population;
(14)  trapping or hunting of small mammals (a) without a permit from.the Reserve
Administration, (b) outside of designated areas, (c) outside the open season or in
excess of the level permitted by the Reserve Administration;
(15)  cutting trees within areas comprising the natural heritage of the Reserve
without a permit from the Reserve Administration;
(16)  commercial collection of forest fruits, mushrooms, medicinal plants or aquatic
organisms other than fish without a permit from the Reserve Administration;
(17)  grazing in the strictly protected zones;
(18)  using within the Reserve chemicals and equipment for agricultural or forestry
purposes without a permit from the Reserve Admninistration or without respecting the
permitted conditions, irrespective of the owner of the land;
(19)  damaging natural or artificial embankments or vegetation through moving
equipment or other works;
(20)  cutting or damaging trees designated as nature monuments or within the strictly
protected areas, or dumping equipment in non-designated areas irrespective of the
owner of the land;
(21)  collecting species of flora which are designated as monuments of nature;
(22)  hunting of deer does and wild boar (a) without a permit from the Reserve
Administration, (b) outside of designated areas, (c) outside the open season or in
excess of the permitted level;
(23)  hunting of birds and mammals protected by law;
(24)  using poisoned baits;
(25)  entry of high- or medium-powered boats in strictly protected areas;
(26)  leakage of fuel, oil or other effluents from boats except that dangerous
effluents are penalised according to Article 13 para (h);
(27)  industrial fishing within areas comprising the natural heritage of the Reserve
without a permit from the Reserve Administration, or breaking the conditions imposed
by the permit;
(28)  fishing from trawlers within the navigation channels less that 20 metres deep;
(29)  failure to notify immediately to the competent authorities all accidental
pollution incidents by the persons concerned, as well as not taking possible measures
for limiting their consequences;
(30)  industrial fishing outside of the permitted season;
(3 1)  fishing of sturgeon in the Danube within the Reserve territory without a permit
from the Reserve Administration or breaking the conditions of the permit;
(32)  the transport, dumping, burying or  treatment of dangerous waste in the
territory of the Reserve;
(33)  organising and carrying out of economic, tourism and recreation activities
within areas comprising the natural heritage of the Reserve without a permit from the
Reserve Administration;
(34)  pollution of water and lands within the Reserve leakage of wastes from
economic activities;



- 74 -
Annex 2
Article 13                                                               Page 6 of 6
The penalties for the offences listed in Article 12 are as follows:
Article 14
The offences are established and penalties set by those empowered by the Reserve
Administration and by the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
Article 15
Unless provided herein, the provision of Law No. 32/1968 shall apply.
Article 16
This law shall come into force 30 days after publication in the official gazette.
Article 17
All previous legislation in conflict with this law is annulled.
* This is a non-authorised translation of the Romanian text made by the Danube Delta Environmental
Management Programme, Tuicea, for information only and may not be as a basis for any legal action
whatsoever



- 75; -                       Annex 3
Page 1 of 10
THE DANUBE DELTA BIOSPHERE RESERVE AUTHORITY
AND THE
DANUBE DELTA INSTITUTE
This annex psroyides details of these two organisations which are both exclusively
concemed with the Danube Delta.
The Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority
The present structure, which in May was awaiting approval by the MWFEP is shown
in Figure 1. The total staff complement is said to be 225 of which 110 staff are in
the Corps of Guards and Inspection. The EBRD (Euroconsult, 1993b) Staff Profile
(Table 1) shows a staff of 220 with 95 vacancies for April 1993. Vacancies have not
been filled because the DDBRA law has not been approved (causing uncertainty
regarding the Authority's future function), and there is also a lack of accommodation.
Funds for the total complement are said to be available but whether these are matched
by a larger equipment and transport budget is not known. The present budget is
summarized in Table 2. Current expenditure is therefore about US$250 000 a year.
The capital budget of some US$947 000 is for the Authority's new headquarters
building.
Proposals to Strengthen the DDBRA: These proposals, presented by the EBRD
(Euroconsult, 1993b), are said to have been approved by the MWFEP. However, it
is not known whether they have been endorsed, following the cuts in government
numbers announced in mid May. The proposed new structure is shown in Figure 2,
from which it will be seen that the enlarged Authority would be divided into eight
departments, and the total staff would be increased to 335, as detailed in Table 3.
The largest increase would be in the Wardens' Department, which would be expanded
from 110 to 240 staff. A budget for the strengthened Authority has not been made
public, but it is said that the increased costs would be balanced by income from fees
and licences granted by the Authority. The EBRD report has therefore recommended
that "the DDBRA should be given the status of an autonomous agency responsible for
its own staff structure and pay scheme. It should also have the ability, within
government guidelines to take commercial loans to promote investments in sustainable
use of natural resources."
The proposed expansion of the Guards' (Wardens') Department and the creation of a
Natural Resources Assessment Department, with a Monitoring Section, are the two
elements in the EBRD proposals of importance in connection with the present report.
The relevant extracts from the EBRD Inception Report (Euroconsult, 1993b) are
therefore produced below:
'The accommodaton problem was resolved in July 1993.



-76-                                 Annex 3
Page 2 of 10
Natural Resources Assessment Department
This department provides information, analysis and advice on the status and trends of the natural resources within
the DDBRA, including impacts from activities in the vicinity and upstream of the reserve. It also identifies gaps in
knoul1edge which require further research and will organise the environmnental monitoring system in the DDBR,
taking account of the national environmental monitoring requirements now being developed. Most of its field
activities will be done through external contracts with Romanian institutions (for example, the Danube Delta
Research Institute), or if necessary by seeking international assistance. The department will ensure that all original
research is properly written up and published in the scientific literature.
The director of the department %vill be a highly experienced environmental scientist (seconded), probably with a
doctorate degree in an appropriate topic such as environmental management, ecology or biometrics. He will be
supported by a personal assistant. The department will have two sections, supported by clerical assistants andjunior
staff such as recent postgraduate students.
(i) Monitorin, Section
The main scientific staff complement will be employed in this section, responsible for the routine in-house
environmental monitoring, research, data archiving and information analysis activities. All of them will be computer
literate and possess degrees in their specialities, preferably to Masters level. With regard to environmental
monitoring, it will be important to dcfinc its objectives so that effort expended on data collection and analysis is
directly relevant to management requirements, and that monitoring is not carried out simply for its own sake. It is
expected that the World Bankl/GEF Biodiversity Project Preparation team, whose brief includes this subject, %%ill be
able to give guidance on objectives, which can then be incorporated in the future management plan. For planning
purposes, howvever, it seems likely that the staff complement will comprse at least the following specialists, with
the hydrologist probably serving as the first section head:
*   Hydrologist (seconded)                *   Chemist
*   Ecologist                             *   Geo-morphologist
*   Agriculturist                         *   Geographic Information System Officer
(ii) Research Contract Section
This section will supervise the specification, tendering, award and follow-up of external research contracts. The
director wvill also serve as section head, and the staff will comprise:
*   Contract Manager
*   Ecologist/Environmental Manager
52.9 WardeningDepartment
Although this department comes at the end of the list, it should be regarded as perhaps the most important of all. It
will have by far the greatest number of people, a large proportion of whom will be recruited from inhabitants of the
DDBR itself, and exert the most visible presence ofthe DDBRA in the reserve. The role of the department as a major
employer and skill enhancer of local people is a demonstrable benefit provided by the existence of the DDBRA,
which should not be overlooked.



-77 -                                 Annex 3
Page 3 of 10
It is important to understand that the staff of the wardening department, like those of similar services elsewhere in
the world, has a particular culture. For example, they share a view of themselves as being at the sharp end of site
protection and management, exposed to the clinate and abuse from other people, yet they have little status, low pay,
poor living conditions, and hardly any opportunity for self-advancement. On the other hand, for many of them the
department will be regarded as place for lifetime employment; such loyalty can serve the DDBRA well if sensitively
managed.
It is recommended that the needs of the departmental staff, and the efficient operation of the DDBRA, can both be
met by concentrating all operational activities mithin the DDBR under various sections of the department. The
careerdevelopment strategy (see 5.2.6 iii) wvill ensure that wardens are encouraged to move aroundthe sections (and
perhaps other DDBRA departments) to acquire new skills, and because of the number of staff, a clear hierarchy of
promotional stages can be instittited (see below). At the same time, multifarious activities with the reserve would be
coordinated by a single department, reducing the potential for conflicts and inadvertent damage to habitats or
disturbance to wildlife.
With regard to the number of staff especially wardens, it is apparent that the current levels are much too low given
the difficulty (and indeed inadvisability) of rapid movement around the DDBR. The result is that people realise that
the likelihood of any individual being caught breaking DDBRA regulations is slight, so poaching and other illegal
activities are widespread. Thus, the wardens often encounter illegal activities on their patrols and have tended to be
seen as a para-police force. This image is not favourable to the DDBRA and needs to be addressed.
It is therefore recommended that the number of wardens is systematically increased over the next three years to
provide a level of coverage of about one per 2,000 ha, i.e. to some 220 wardens (excluding supervisors and ancillary
staff). This would give a sufficient presence to deter most casual illegal activities, so allowing the wardens more time
for training to carry out more specialised tasks. The task of law enforcement could then become a matter for a
dedicated unit dealing with serious events. The recruitment will need to be accompanied by investment in warden
stations, small powered boats and accommodation.
The proposed increase in the number of wardens from about 80 at present to 220 or so provides a unique opportunity
for planning and implementing optimum approaches to their recruitment and training. Intelligent men and women
are required, committed to the environmental management and sustainable economic development of the DDBR.
Through well-planned initial and service-long training, and carefully scheduled work rotation and career development,
each warden will develop general capabilities, specialist skills and an ethic of service to match the challenges ofthis
'key department.
The directorwill bea veryexperienced environmental manager, with special training in planning, administration and
personnel management. He shbuld clearly have the personality to lead, motivate and maintain the morale of his
wardens. He uill be supported by a deputy director, a personal assistant, a small secretariat, and have a motor boat
for his own official use.
The department will be organised under six sections, as described below. It will be apparent that several ranks are
already clear:
* Warden (three or four grades)           220
 Senior Warden (two or three grades)      13
* Section Head                              5
* Deputy Director                            I
* Director                                   I
(i) Patrol Section
This section will work closely with the Legal and Licensing Departments. Wardens will check licenses and permits
and report infractions to the relevant department for follow-up, or impose spot fines as required. It will comprise the
bulk of the wardens (including all new recruits), distributed between the 12 districts as at present, with each district
led by a senior warden. In addition, one group of wardens and a senior warden would form a mobile unit capable of
responding to emergencies and serious events which infringe the DDBRA regulations. The deputy director will serve
as section head.



- 78 -                                     Annex 3
(ii) Communications and Logistics Section                                                   Page 4 of 10
This section, which will work closely uith the Administration Department, will be responsible for installing and
maintaining mobile and static radio communications within the DDBR and to the DDBRA HQ; this should be done
in conjunction with equipping all boats with a Global Position System receiver. It will also service all boats and
vehicles used by the deparunent, and provide boatmen for the common pool of motor and house boats used by other
sections and departments. The section head should have engineering qualifications. For the time being, the staffwill
remain more or less at the currently envisaged level, comprising:
Boat mechanic               2
Deckhand                    6
House boat captain          I
Helmsman                    4
Navigator                   I
Radio operators             3
(iii) Infrastructure Section
This section wvill work closely %%ith teams from the Corporate Planning and Policy Department. It will monitor
contractors or actually carry out itself all wvorks in the DDBR organised by the DDBRA. Projects will range from
erecting signposts, observation hides and warden stations (done by the section) to water engineering and polder
restoration (monitoring of contractors). The purpose is to ensure that works are carried out with minimum
disturbance to habitats and wildlife. The section head will be qualified in engineering, architecture or construction.
He will be supportcd by up to 20 wardens on vocational training. Additional specialists may be contracted in as
required.
(iv) Survey and RecordWe Section
This section will liaise with the Natural Resources Assessment Department. It will gather basic data on w%ildlife
status and distribution, xwater samples, meteorological data and so on. The section head will have sound ecological
and fieldcraft skills. It will have a small staff ofabout 15 wardens on vocational training who will carry out specific
projects (e.g. international waterfowl census, pelican colony monitoring), while more extensive, ongoing projects
will be organised through the general warden corps, using those already trained by the section.
(v) Guidinz Section
This section will provide support for the Information Department and also the business liaison officer in the
Corporate Planning and Policy Departmcnt. It has a significant role as a means for spreading information to and
gathering reactions from visitors to the DDBR. It will be responsible for providing guides to accompany all
organised parties of tourists or other visitors to the DDBR. nhe staff will require training in languages and public
communication. lThe section will therefore provide a high profile for the DDBRA, and ensure that tour operators do
not infringe the regulations. The section head wsill have qualifications in communication skills and be able to speak
at least English and one other foreign language to a reasonable level of fluency. It will have a staff of about 30
wvardens on vocational training.
(vi) Facilitation Section
This section will provide support for the External Relations Department by coordinating visits in the DDBR by
scientists and others on official business. It %,ill also respond to requests for help from local people (e.g. for
communications or transport where these are not otherwise available) when these are compatible with the planned
operations of the department. The section head will be experienced in planning and coordination. The staff will
comprise about five wardens on vocational training.



-79 -                               Annex 3
Page 5 of 10
The Danube Delta Institute
The DDI which was incorporated as the Research Division of the DDBRA reverted
to its previous independent status as an Institute of the MWFEP in January 1993. As
such, its staff receive which are somewhat higher than those of the DDBRA: senior
research workers salaries ranging from 53,000 to 74,000 leiUmonth.
The Institute comprises two departments covering Design and Research. The forner,
now much reduced in size was concerned with polder design under the Complex Plan
for the Economic Exploitation of the Delta. The latter is now responsible "for
providing the scientific basis for the formnulation of government policy and activities
pertaining to the conservation and management of nature and natural resources of the
DDBR " (DDI. 1993). The staff complement is 229, there are 197 staff in post and
32 vacancies as detailed in Table 4. The Institute has three cars, one truck and five
boats: a five bunk research vessel, an 8 person jet boat, (no bunks), one tug and two
cabin research boats.
The total 1993 annual budget is 270.8 million lei or about US$420,000, made up as
follows:
Lei ('000)
Research Department                                         82,000
Design Department                                           34,190
Agriculture and fish production
Research (Min of Agri)                                      54,610
270,800
The main budget heads are salaries lei 105.67 millions, and equipment lei 28.93
million, the balance being specific research projects which include items for transport
and travelling. The latter in 1993 are funded as follows by the MWFEP: Lei 160
million, and the MOA Lei 22 million, plus subventions in kind from the collaborating
institutes.
The research project, with details of their total budgets are listed in Table 5.



AiNNEX 3
-  80  -                                     Page 6 of 10
Table   1: DDBRA staffprorile: schedule ofpersonnel in post and vacancies in April 1993.
FUNCTION/EXPERTISE               IN PLACE         VACANCIES            TOTAL
Administration
Biologist                            2                  4                   6
Engineer                             3                   1                  4
Economist                            2                   5                  7
Geologist                                                I                  I
Chermist                              1                 5                   6
Chemical technician                                     2                   2
Fish scientist                       2                  4                   6
Forester                                                3                   3
Agronomist                                              2                   2
Land rehabilitation specialist        I                                     I
Hydrologist                           1                 2                   3
Technician                            I                                     I
Sociologist                                              I                  I
Computer manager                                         I                  I
Computer programmer                                     4                   4
Bookkeeper                           2                  2                   4
Legal advisor                                            1                  1
Secretary                            2                                      2
Deputy                                1                  5                  6
Translator                                               I                  I
Technician                           6                   8                 14
Labourer                                                 3                  3
Watchman                                                3                   3
Caretaker                                               2                   2
Maintenance/mechanic                 6                   1                  7
Librarian                                                I                  I
General assistant                                        1                  1
Sailor/drivers etc.                  13                  7                 20
Radio operator                                           I                  I
Storekeeper                           I                                     I
Subtotal                             44                 71                115
Corps of Guards
Biologist                             2                                     2
Eco-tourism specialist                                   I                  I
Veterinarian                         2                                      2
Naval enginecr                        I                                     I
Forester                                                 1                  3
Chcmist                               I                                     I
Civil engineer                        I                                     I
Secretary                             I                                     I
Fish scientist                                           iI
Guards                               71                 21                 92
Subtotal                             81                 24                105
TOTAL                                125                95                220
Source
DDBR Environmcnu marliagcmcnt Programmc Inception Repon



-  81  -                                      Annex  3
Page 7 of 10
rable 2 DDBRA BUDGET 1993
('000 Lei)
/-nf         2-nd           3-rd           -h           ANNUAL
CODE   QUARTER        QUARTER        QUA.R7ER       QUARTER        EXPENSES
TOTAL EXPFC SES A+B                                       94,0(0       217,860        247.610        219,530        779,000
A.RUNNING COSTS                                     1        24,000         37,860         47,610        53,530          163,000
1. EMPLOYEE COSTS                                   2         16,610        26,360        .53,530        33,860          106,750
Saaries payable to employees                     10        12,200        17,200         18,400        54,560            70,000
-Salaries                                       10         10,000        14,900         16,000        19,600           60,500
-Overtime                                       10           200           200            200           200               800
-Other rights                                   10         2,000          2,100          2,200         2,400            8,700
SoCial security (peisions )                      11         3,050         4,300          4,600         5,550            17,500
Unmploiment                                      12          610            860            920          1,110           3,500
Travels, terporary transfers                     13          750          4,000          6,000         5,000            15,750
I.EXPENSES FOR MATERIALS & SERVICES                20         7,390         11,500         17,690        19,670           56.250
Food                                            22           400            700            900          1,000           3,000
Medkitnes & sanitary materials                  23              0            30             40            30              100
Maintenance &cleaning                            24         1,000         3,570          5,550          7,650           17,770
-Heating                                       24            100             0              0           700              800
-Light & electricity                           24            50            300            500           650             1,500
-water, litter & sanitation                    24             10           100            200           240              550
-postage,telephone.telex                       24            100           250            300           350            1,000
-office naterials                              24           230            400            500           670            1,800
-cleaning materials                            24             10            20             50            40              120
-other materials asnd services                 24           500          2,500          4,000         5.000           12,000
Materials & services for functioning             25         4,390         5,000          5,500         6,290           21,180
Equipment ,spare parts & other                  26            100           400            500           500            1,500
Overhauling                                      27           700           800            800           700            3,000
Major overhauing                                 28             0             0              0                              0
Books & periodicals                             29            100           150            150           200              600
Sundries                                         30           700           850          4,250          3,300            9,100
-training                                      30           200            400            500           350             1,450
-entertainment                                 30             0             50             50            50              150
-labour protection                              30            0            200            200           100              500
-other authorised expenses                     30           500            200          3,500         2,800            7,000
-helicopter renting                                    0              0          2.200         1,100            3,300
-audio & video promotion                               0              0          1.000         1,000            2,000
B. CAPITAL COSTS                                   70         70,000       180,000        200.000       166,000          616.000
Investments of public institutions                72         70.000       180,000        200,000        166,000         616,000
Source: Euroconsult Team



- 82 -                              Annex 3
Page 8 of 10
Table 3: DDI Staff Profile: personal in post and vacancies May 1993.
Function                            In Post       Vacancies         Total
Direction/Administration
Directors                         2                 -            2
Scientific Secretary               1                -            I
Financial Officer                  1                -            1
Senior Administrators             2                 -           2
Support Staff                    15                 -          15
(Secretaries, bookeepers,
cashiers, watchmen etc).
Research Department
Graduate Research Staff          35               21           56
Research Technicians              4                3            7
Field staff (labourers)          42                 -          42
Casual labour (provision for)    40                 -          40
Design Department
Graduate staff
(Civil engineers, architects     11                6            17
hydro technicians)
Field staff (labourers)            6                -            6
Driver                             I                -            1
Storekeeper                       3                 -           3
Transport
Boat Captain                       3                -            3
Helmsman (hotel boats)             3                -            3
Sailors                            5                -            5
Navys                              4                -            4
Drivers                            2                1            3
Chief boat mechanic                I                -            I
Mechanics                          2                             2
197              32          229
Source: DDI



- 83 -                                  Annex 3
Page 9 of 10
TABLE 4: RESEARCH PROJECTS AT THE DANUBE DELTA INSTITUTE IN 1993
Proiect      Reference                                                   Cost in
Leader       Number                                                      lei'000
V.Otel       1/1          Assessment and protection of the genofond in    30000
the DDBR
C.David       1/2         The characterisation of the ecological factors  21000
which define the diversity of natural ecosystems in
the DDBR
1. Navodaru  2/1          The study of DDBR fish populations and           17000
establishment of the conditions for sustainable
use through fishing
J. Hanganu   2/2          The assessment of reed resources in the DDBR and   18000
establishment of the conditions for their sustainable
use
G. Gheorghiu 2/3          The assessment of vegetable resources in the      8000
DDBR and establishment of their sustainable
use by traditional pasturing
M. Suciu     2/4          The establishment of ecological conditions for the  7000
use of the deltaic landscape for tourism
M. Filat     2/5          Researches for the assessment of game resources  10000
and the conditions for their sustainable use
C. Ulvoczki  3/1          Researches for the reduction of the impact of    18000
economic activities in the antrophic ecosystems on
the natural ecosystems in the DDBR
D. Bandacu   4/1          Amelioration of the ecological state of the natural    14000
ecosystems and restoration of some polders in the
DDBR
V. Savulescu  5/1         The study of economic and social issues in the    7000
Danube Delta and their inclusion in the ecological
management of the DDBR
I. Grigoras    6/1        The assessment of the informatic system of the   10000
DDBR Authority including remote sensing and GIS
Authority including remote sensing and GIS
TOTAL COST                                      160000
Source: DDI



THE ORGANIGRAMME OF DDBRA APPROVED ON 18TH JANUARY 1994
(NUMBER OF STAFF)
SCIENCE ADVISORY COUNCIL
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
STRATEGY, PROGRAMMING,          EXTERNAL RELATIONS,                NATURAL               WARDENING             ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT, DISPUTES,       INFORMATION AND EDUCATION            RESOtURCES
REGULATIONS                                                       EVALUATION
-Strategy & Planning (5)       -External Relations (4)          -Natural                -Inspection (13)    -Budget &
-Development (4)               -Information &                    Resources              -Patrol and           Accounts (6)
-Disputes (2)                    Education (6)                   Assessment (4)          Ecological          -Management (11)
-Regulations (6)                                                -Monitoring;             Survey (122)        -Mechanics &
Impact                -Recording (8)         Logistics (30)
Assessment &          -Guiding (2)          -Supplies (4)                       co
Database (10)         -Supervision of       -Maintenance,
Investment           Security (11)
Projects (6)
TURCEA COUNTY
h/ALIUC CWLNTY
PARDINA COUNTY
CHILIA COUNTY
SULINA COIUNTY
CRISAN COUNTY
CARAORMAN COUNTY
SF. GHEORGHE COUNTY
UZLINA COUNTY
SARICHIOI COUNTY
JURILOVCA COuNTY
MIHAI VITEAZU COUNTY                                               oQ 
INTERVENTION UNIT                                                 o  X
0



- 85 -                        An-i:ex 4
Page 1 of 1
ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Magnitude and Frequency of water levels recorded at Tulcea, 1932-1992
Annual water levels No. of days            Annual water levels No. of days
---- in cm  -----   water level            ---- in cm  -----   water level
Year   Min. Mean    Max. >300 cm           Year   Min. Mean    Max. >300 cm
____      ---   -- --  ---    -------      - -- -    ---   --- -  ___  _    _- ---
1932    21   164    373         63         1963    38   172    344        64
1933      1   173    300         0         1964    31   151    272         0
1934    43   150    288          0         1965    35   247    387    117
1935    12   144    284          0         1966    78   245    342        61
1936    50   179    262          0         1967    40   218    388    145
1937    24   244    375         96         1968    56   175    311        12
1938    37   193    357         27         1969    15   214    400    123
1939    49   176    287          0         1970    93   282    435    182
1940   104   268    399        149         1971    18   146    308        10
1941   128   289    370        163         1972    50   174    360        13
1942    30   200    409        109         1973    27   159    343        48
1943     8   104    225          0         1974    65   210    371        50
1944    57   220    362         50         1975      0   226    398    125
1945    24   172    352         20         1976    44   177    310         5
1946   -18   116    261          0         1977    36   207    378        99
1947   -23   116    340         56         1978    46   212    365        99
1948      I   187    309        22         1979    69   232    352        84
1949      6    99    205         0         1980    92   262    424    103
1950    -2   102    275          0         1981   101   242    415        99
1951    15   175    306         17         1982    69   197    368         55
1952      8   143    292         0         1983    10   141    278          0
1953    12   173    324         27         1984    60   176    335        47
1954      0   165    321        41         1985    12   188    349        57
1955   178   273    371        118         1986    10   167    335        35
1956    29   214    383        125         1987    34   192    367        75
1957    29   166    307         14         1988    37   1.83    406        51
1958    33   177    350         79         1.989    41   151    285         0
1959      6   144    240         0         1990      5    93    192         0
1960   100   191    279          0         1991    53   173    345         43
1961    -4   135    284          0         1992    16   145    310          6
1962      0   179    380        73
Total         5431   9870    1249                         5757  10473   1808
Average        175    318        40                        192    349       60



- 86 -                                Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Implementation Plan
ExRlanation of Numbered Critical Events
Number          Event                               Exglanation
1       Mid Term Review                Reviews Progress in Project Execution
Elimination of subcomponents with poor progress
2       New Wardens                    If no sufficient number of new wardens appointed,
reduction in warden equipment procurement
3       Establishment five            If not, no section specialization courses
Warden Sections
4       GIS digital database for maps  If not ready, discontinue support for U. Mass
5       Obtain land for Phase II polders  If not, do not proceed with Phase II
6       Complete sturgeon hatchery    If not, do not initiate hatchery construction
study
7       Obtain agreement for respon-   If not, do not construct hatchery
sibility recurrent cost
8       Do not delay rust contract    If no contract by late 1995, drop component
from project
9       Contract NGO                   If no NGO can be found, find timely other
solution
10       Obtain canal closure permit   If no permit can be obtained, drop component
from project
11       Locally produce delta video   If not yet done, suggest contract with German TV
12       Contract specialist for bird life    If not found, contract foreign specialist
public awareness specialist
13       Contract procurement          If not, inform that disbursement will
specialist                     be suspended if specialist is not appointed
by mid-1995



87  -                                            ANNEX  5
Page 2 of 2
Romania
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Workplan
Component and Activity                    1994       1995       1998       1997       1998
Mid-Term Review                        1     2   1      2   1        2      1            2
1. Warden Department Strengthening                                                (1)
New Warden Appointment                                    20         20    20  (2)            20         20
Apartment Units Construction                               __                    - - -
Field Station Construction
Vehicle and Boat Purchase
Equipment and Supplies
Training Officer (Foriegn)
Overseas Study Tours (8 persons)                           __ 
Section Head Internship (4 persons)
Warden Foundation Course
Indepth Course
Section Specialization Course
' Establishment of 5 Warden Sections                                       (3)
2. Ecosystem Monitorinag
Vehicle and Boat Purchase                                   _         _
Other Equipment Procurement                           --    |---
Biodiversity Center Furniture Equipment
Apele Romans Hydrological Equipment
GIS Data Management TA
GIS Equipment
NRA Dept. Equipment                                             l           _      -
Training University of Mass.
TA Bird Ufe Ornithologist
Flood Monitoring Survey                                                    l
U. Mass GIS Digital Cartographic Database                                (4)
3. Polder Restoration and Reed Restoration Research
Phase I Polder Baseline Survey                         __
Phase I Polder Surveying and Mapping                    _
Babina, Holbina I Dyke Breaching
Cernovka, Holbina II Dyke Breaching
Monitoring Equipment Purchase                         -------
* Phase H Polder Obtain Land                                          (5)
Phase n Polder Baseline Survey
Phae 11 Polder Surveying and Mapping                                       ___
Phase H Polder Dyke Breaching                                                              -- _
TA Polder Phase I, Auen Inst.                            
DDI Chemist Training
Reed Restoration Research Installation                     ___
Auto analyzer School
4. Ecosystems Restoration
^ Sturgeon Hatchery Study & Training                    __-----(6)
* Sturgeon Hatchery Operating Cost Agreement                           (7)
* Rust Removal Contract                                               (8)
Willow Mounting
* Village Fuel Wood NGO Agreement                                (9)
Garaorman Canal Engineering
Carsorman Canal Closure Permit                                      (10)
Fish Protection Study & Engineering
Fish Protection Construction
Blocking FortuneADuoarea Channel
5. Public Awareness/Community Involvement
Equipment Purchase
Local Video Production                                                   (11)
* Bird Life Public Awareness Specialist Contract           (12)
B. Regional Coordination and Procurement TA
International Workshops (3)                           _-     _
Regional Activities and Ukrain Coop.                         -- -------------           ---------    
Procurement TA Contract                                    (13)-- -- _       _



- 88 -                                Annex 6
Page 1 of 15
ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.    The project funds technical assistance for a variety of activities. Much is provided
free, the project financing only the transport and per diem. This is the case for the
assistance provided by the WWF, University of Georgia, University of Massachusetts and
"Birdlife." The table below summarizes technical assistance, and terms of reference follow.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR WARDEN STRENGTHENING
TRAINING SPECIALIST
Qualifications and Experience
2.    The Training Specialist should have qualifications (educational training) and work
experience in environmental education and ecology targeted to protected area management, in
particular with temperate delta ecosystems. He should have familiarity with institutional
strengthening, protected area legislation and its enforcement, approaches to patrolling,
flora/fauna monitoring for ecosystems, habitats and species, wetland restoration, and public
awareness needs of wetland protected areas. He should have experience in the design of
curricula for training park warden in protected area management.
Scope of Work
3.    The contractor will design specific curriculum and course descriptions for all of the
different on-site courses that will be taught through the project, both by local and foreign
expertise. The courses will provide hands-on experience with focus on organizational
management, waterfowl management, wetland restoration and legislative aspects of wetland
restoration, and public awareness. While there will be some classroom and lecture
components, the emphasis should be on field and site-based activities. The contractor will
ensure the courses cover the necessary skills to implement the project components. They
should build upon successful practices from other wetland conservation areas and offer
training opportunities that are also compatible with ongoing work in the parallel GEF
Ukraine Danube Delta Project and throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF
project.
Place/Duration of Duty
4.    The position would be in Tulcea for 3 months, mostly in the early part of the project.



8 9 -                                                Annex 6
Page 2 of 15
Technical Assistance
(Staffweeks)
Expertise                           Local/Expatriate              Year I   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4  Year 5      Total
Warden Strengthenine
Trainer                                expatriate                   12                                               12
Wetland Management Trainer             expatriate                    I                                                I
Language Trainer                      local                         52        52       52        52        52      510
Monitorine
Ornithologist (Birdlife) s             expatriate                    6         6         6         6        6        30
Wetlands Ecologists                    e xpatriate                   8                                                8
Database Expert '                      expatriate                    8                                                8
GIS Specialist '                       expatriate                    4                                                4
Bird Awareness Specialist 2            local                         6         6         6        6        6        30
Polder Restoration
Polder Restoration Phase I
Surveyors and Mapping                  local            ha 4'    3,370    4,680          -       -          -    8,050
Hydrologist                           local             mm           2         2         -         -        -         4
Baseline Surveys                      local             mm           8         8         -         -        -        16
Annual Monitoring                      local            mm           8        16        16       16        16        72
Faunal Surveys                        local             mm           1         2         2        2         2         9
Supervise Baseline Surveys             expatriate       mm           2         1         -         -        -         3
(WWF/Auern Inst.
Polder Restoration Phase II
Surveyors and Mapping                  local            ha "         -         -    8,000    8,400    8,000   24,400
Hydrologist                           local             mm           -         -         3        4         3        10
Baseline Surveys                      local             mm           -         -        12        16       12        40
Annual Monitoring                     local             mm           -         -        12       28        40        80
Faunal Surveys                        local             mm           -         -         1.5       3.5      4        10
Chemists Training
DDI Chemist Training                  expatriate         sw          6         -        4          -        -        10
Veg. mapping WWF/Auern                 expatriate        sw          4         -         4         -        -         8
Autoanalyzer-Reed Restoration         expatriate         sw          4         -         -         -        -        4
Research
Ecosystems Restoration
Sturveon Hatchery
Design of Hatchery                    expatriate      manyears       2         -         -         -        -        2
TA to DDI                              expatriate       mm           3         1         0.5       1        0.5       6
Caraorman Canal Closure
Engineering                           local             mm           2         -         -         -        -        2
Pilot Fingerling Protection
Three TA Study Tours                   expatriate       mm           -         3         -         -        -         3
Engineering                            local            mm           -         6         -         -        -         6
Manerement
Procurement Advisor                    expatriate       mm           3         1         1                            5
Financial/Program Advisor              expatriate       mm           2         2         1                            5
1/ Will then host Romanian section leader with other wetland experts for one month training course in his
home country.
2/ Salary costs contributed by 'Birdlife'; GEF project pays for transport and per diems only.
3/ Wetland ecologist by WWF, database expert and GIS expert by University of Massachusetts.
4/ One month (i.e. 3 nan-months) for 1,000 ha.



- 90 -                               Annex 6
Page 3 of 15
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR WARDEN STRENGTHENING
OVERSEAS WETLAND STUDY TOUR
Qualifications and Experience
5.    The tour trainers and host organization should have qualifications (educational
training) and work experience in protected area management, in particular with temperate
delta ecosystems, including experience with institutional strengthening, protected area
legislation, flora/fauna monitoring for ecosystems, habitats and species, wetland restoration,
public awareness needs of wetland protected areas. The host area(s) should provide
examples of different wetland management strategies focusing on nature protection and
ecosystem restoration, but with techniques that are applicable to the Romanian Danube Delta.
The host must be comfortable with both process/planning oriented components and
implementing technical, on-site activities in wetland conservation areas. They should have
specific experience in Romania with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the relevant local
and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental) in the region.
Scope of Work
6.    The contractor will primarily direct the study tour for 8 lead DDBRA Warden staff,
including the Director, 2 warden leaders and 6 section heads. The tour will focus on
waterfowl management, wetland restoration and legislative aspects of wetland restoration,
and public awareness primarily. But the contractor should be familiar with the overall GEF
project goals and design the tour to best fit these needs. While there will be some classroom
and lecture components, the emphasis should be on field and site-based activities. The host
will be expected to visit Romania before the DDBRA study to tour in order to better
understand the needs of the DDBRA and Danube Delta conservation situation.
7.    The contractor will ensure the tour is multi-disciplinary and builds upon successful
practices in other wetland systems and will be compatible with ongoing work in the parallel
GEF Ukraine Danube Delta Project and throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF
project. The contractor also needs to make translation arrangements.
Place/Duration of Duty
8.    The Contractor will first visit Tulcea (delta region) for a one week period during the
first year the project. The Romanians will then visit the overseas study area(s) for a one
month period during the first year of the project, during which time the host will accompany
them.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 15
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR WARDEN STRENGTHENING
LANGUAGE TRAINERS POSITION
Qualifications and Experience
9.    The Language Trainer(s) should have qualifications (educational training) and work
experience in teaching English, as a second language for Romanian residents, together with
experience in organizing the teaching of French and German. They should also have
experience with setting up a language lab, e.g. as in a university setting, designing formal
and intense courses as well as ongoing, continuing education activities.
Scope of Work
10.   The contractors will primarily with the DDBRA, but also other community leaders
and DDI as necessary in instructing a formal training program in English, and organizing
training in German and French. The emphasis in the first three years will be English, and
French and German if the touristic demand warrants it. The courses are being taught so that
the Romanians, in particular the Guide Warden Section, can interact with foreign visitors and
colleagues in the implementation of the project. The Trainer(s) will be responsible for
setting up the Language Lab, arranging the course structure, overseeing the lab equipment in
conjunction with the DDBRA procurement staff, providing ongoing courses that are intense
for 6 weeks at a time and arranged through the year in coordination with the staffing needs
of the DDBRA, but also must provide course arrangements and curriculum for students to
continue at their own pace after the formal courses.
Place/Duration of Duty
11.   The Contractor will work in Tulcea, Romania full time throughout the project.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR BIRD MONITORING (BIRDLIFE)
Qualifications and Experience
12.   BirdLife (hereafter, Contractor) should have qualifications (educational training) and
work experience in bird inventorying and monitoring techniques that are appropriate with
temperate delta ecosystems. They should have specific experience in Romania with the
Danube Delta and familiarity with the relevant local and national institutions (governmental
and non-governmental).
Scope of Work
13.   The contractor will work with the DDBRA, the DDI and the ROS in enhancing the
existing activities related to bird monitoring and wetland management for the protection of
species and habitats. They will work with the Survey Wardens of the DDBRA, the
Biodiversity Research Group of the DDI and the local ROS person. They will help to



- 92 -                               Annex 6
Page 5 of 15
implement the ornithological aspects of the DDBRA Management Plan that is in first draft
stage by Birdlife. They will help to ensure these aspects are implemented by appropriate
institutions identified above and is compatible with other components of the GEF project, in
particular Data Management and Public Awareness. They will coordinate with the Flevoland
Institute (Netherlands) and the University of Massachusetts (USA) on integrating monitoring
activities into GIS and mapping activities. They will ensure that the monitoring activities
build upon successful practices in the Mediterranean and will be compatible with ongoing
work throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
14.   The Contractor will work throughout the Danube Delta, based in Tulcea, Romania,
for three weeks, two times per year, for the total project period of 5 years, 1994-1998. The
Contractor will contribute the staff time and the GEF project will cover all travel and related
board/lodging expenses during this period.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR PUBLIC AWARENESS (BIRDLIFE'
Qualifications and Experience
15. BirdLife (hereafter, Contractor) should have qualifications (educational training) and
work experience in public awareness activities to promote nature conservation, specifically
birds, and bird-related tourism that are appropriate with temperate delta ecosystems. They
should have specific experience in Romania with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the
relevant local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental).
Scope of Work
16.   The contractor will work with the DDBRA, the DDI, ROS and ProDelta in enhancing
the existing activities related to bird monitoring and wetland management for the protection
of species and habitats. They will work with the Survey Wardens of the DDBRA, the
Biodiversity Research Group of the DDI, Prodelta NGO and the local ROS person. They
will help to implement the Public Awareness and Ecotourism aspects of the DDBRA
Management Plan that is in first draft stage by Birdlife. They will help to ensure these
aspects are implemented by appropriate institutions identified above and is compatible with
other components of the GEF project, in particular Monitoring and guiding activities by the
DDBRA Wardens and the establishment of an Information and Education Department in
DDBRA. They will ensure that the Public Awareness activities build upon successful
practices in the Mediterranean and will be compatible with ongoing work throughout the
Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.



Annex 6
- 93 -                       Page 6 of 15
Place/Duration of Duty
17. The Contractor will work throughout the Danube Delta, based in Tulcea, Romania,
for three weeks, two times per year, for the total project period of 5 years, 1994-1998. The
Contractor wil contribute the staff time and the GEF project wiU cover all travel and related
board/lodging expenses during this period.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR PUBLIC AWARENESS (BIRDLIFE)
Qualifications and Experience
18.   BirdLife (hereafter, Contractor) should have qualifications (educational training) and
work experience in public awareness activities to promote nature conservation, specifically
birds, and bird-related tourism that are appropriate with temperate delta ecosystems. They
should have specific experience in Romania with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the
relevant local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental).
Scope of Work
19.   The contractor wiU work with the DDBRA, the DDI, ROS and ProDelta in enhancing
the existing activities related to bird monitoring and wetland management for the protection
of species and habitats. They will work with the Survey Wardens of the DDBRA, the
Biodiversity Research Group of the DDI, Prodelta NGO and the local ROS person. They
will help to implement the Public Awareness and Ecotourism aspects of the DDBRA
Maanagement Plan that is in first draft stage by Birdlife. They will help to ensure these
aspects are implemented by appropriate institutions identified above and is compatible with
other components of the GEF project, in particular Monitoring and guiding activities by the
DDBRA Wardens and the establishment of an Information and Education Department in
DDBRA. They will ensure that the Public Awareness activities build upon successful
practices in the Mediterranean and will be compatible with ongoing work throughout the
Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
20.   The Contractor will work throughout the Danube Delta, based in Tulcea, Romania,
for three weeks, two times per year, for the total project period of 5 years, 1994-1998. The
Contractor will contribute the staff time and the GEF project will cover all travel and related
board/lodging expenses during this period.



Annex 6
- 94 -                            Page 7 of 15
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR DATA MANAGEMENT (UMass)
Qualifications and Experience
21.   UMass (hereafter, Contractor) will provide experts with qualifications (educational
training) and work experience in data management and GIS activities to promote nature
conservation, specifically flora and fauna aspects, that are appropriate to temperate delta
ecosystems. They should have specific experience in Romania with the Danube Delta and
familiarity with the relevant local and national institutions (governmental and non-
governmental).
Scope of Work
22.   The contractor will work primarily with the DDI, but also the DDBRA in the
establishment of an operational GIS system to incorporate the monitoring activities into
computer-generated data and maps that can be used for management purposes. They will
prepare equipment for the DDIVDDBRA. They will help to ensure these aspects are
implemented by appropriate institutions identified above and are compatible with other
components of the GEF project, in particular the inventory and survey monitoring activities,
carried out by the DDI and the DDBRA. The contractor will coordinate activities with the
ongoing assistance by the Flevoland Institute of the Netherlands, in conjunction with the DDI
and DDBRA. They will ensure that the data management/GIS activities build upon
successful practices in other wetland systems and will be compatible with ongoing work in
the parallel GEF Ukraine Danube Delta Project and throughout the Black Sea through the
Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
23.   The Contractor will work initially at UMass (USA) with 3 Romanian trainees, ten 1
month in Romania, 3 months again in USA and a final month in Romania. The Contractor
will handle all procurement of equipment, shipping, etc. as outlined in the Project Document.
Wetlands ecologist (principal investigator) would work for 8 months, the database
management specialist (coordinator) would work for 8 months, and the GIS specialist for
four months.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR POLDER RESTORATION
SURVEYING AND MAPPING OF POLDERS TO BE RESTORED (PHASES I AND II)
Scope of Work
24.   The contract will be between DDBRA and local surveyors to survey the to be restored
polders, and provide maps scale 1:10,000 with contour lines at 50 cm intervals. Mapping
will take place after permission is obtained to restore the polders. Length profiles of the



- 95 -                               Annex 6
Page 8 of 15
principal existing drains will be indicated at the same horizontal scale as the map scale and a
vertical scale of 1:10.
Place/Duration of Duty
25.   For the polders of Phase I it is expected that surveyors will be lodged on board of
the hotel boat. For the polders of Phase II, it is expected that surveyors can be lodged at
the nearest new warden field station. Duration of field work is about 1 month per 1000ha.
Fieldwork to take place during the summer low water period: July through October.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR POLDER RESTORATION
HYDROLOGIST
Qualifications and Experience
26.   The hydrologist should have experience in streamgauging and the installation of staff
and recording gauges.
Scope of Work
27.   For all polders to be restored the hydrologist should, on the basis of water level data
to be supplied by Apele Romane, determine the present high and low water elevations
outside the polder circumferenc. On the basis of the polder maps, he will determine the
locations for the opening of the dykes so as to achieve a maximum inundation over the
polder surface and through a through-flow avoid the occurrence of stagnant water pockets,
making maximum use of already constructed or natural drainage channels. He will
determine the location of and install staff and temporary recording gauges and correct their
zeros to a common base. He will observe water levels after dyke breaching and determine
discharge rates of in- and outflow, while at the same time DDI water quality team should
analyse water samples of in- and out flow and record changes over time. For each polder,
he should keep a map indicating the locations of the dyke breaches and gauges and keep a
log of the observations.
Place/Duration of Duty
28.   The observations should be made before and immediately after breaching of the
dykes, a work that is expected to be carried out during the summer low water season. This
is expected to require no more than two weeks per polder. After that, as part of the annual
monitoring program, water level and discharge observations should be made during the high
water spring inundation period when about two times a one week observation period per
polder would be needed.



- 96 -                                Annex 6
Page 9 of 15
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR POLDER RESTORATION:
BASELINE SURVEYS. ANNUAL SURVEYS. FAUNAL SURVEYS
Qualifications and Experience
29.   A team of biologists with specializations in wetland vegetation, ornithology,
ichthyology, microbiology, and also a soil chemist, is required. Highly specialized
individuals will not be necessary. Because of the temporary nature of the work, it is
suggested that for the most part graduate students from nearby universities be recruited who
should work under guidance of more experienced professionals from DDI and during the
firstb and second year also under technical assistance from the WWF/Auern Institute.
Scope of Work
30.   The baseline survey serves to determine the "before" situation with respect to fauna
and vegetation that exists in the to be restored polders, and compare this to the changes in
animal and plant populations that occur as a result of exposing the polders to the altemating
inundation regime once the dykes have been breached: the "after" situation. Obviously,
greater changes are expected to occur in the agricultural polders than in the fish polders. In
particular, a danger exists in the release of a high nutrient discharge from agricultural
polders that are for the first time inundated. The water quality of the outflow from the
agricultural polders should be monitored and also the content of nitrogen and phosphorus in
the top 30cm of the soil before and after the first and second inundation cycle. On the basis
of experience with the first two polders, it may have to be decided to temporarily block the
outflow and create ponding, and then slowly release the drainage water to avoid occurrence
of a nutrient shock in the surrounding wetlands.
Place/Duration of Duty
31.   The baseline survey should take place around June/July and again during the autumn
and those two baseline surveys combined would require about a month's work per polder for
a team consisting of four scientists, or four manmonths per polder. The later annual
monitoring could be partially carried out by the wardens, e.g. the faunal monitoring. Still, it
is expected that the avnnual monitoring will require about 4 manmonths per year. As a
result of the experience obtained with monitoring of the phase I group of two fish and two
agriculture polders, it may be decided to change the monitoring program for the phase II
polders. It would seem that after an initial period of four years, diminishing returns can be
expected and inthat case the monitoring effort should be curtailed accordingly.



_ 97 _                                 Annex 6
Page 10 of 15
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR POLDER RESTORATION
WWF/AUEN INSTITUTE - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Qualifications and Experience
32.   The Auen Institute will make available an experienced geo-botanist and a wetland
restoration hydrologist.
Scope of Work
33.   The two members of the Auen Institute team will assist in the setting up of the
baseline surveys of the first and second agricultural polders and the first annual survey of the
first agricultural polder to be inundated. Together with DDI professional staff they will
establish protocols for transsects for vegetation monitoring and for water discharge and
quality monitoring.
Place/Duration of Duty
34.   During the first year, two visits of half a month duration are foreseen for the team of
two: before the inundation, and after the breaching of the dykes. During the second year,
the team will return during the inundation period.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR POLDER RESTORATION
CHEMISTS TRAINING
Qualifications and Experience
35.   Two of DDI's water quality chemists and the scientific secretary of DDI with foreign
language capability.
Scope of Training
36.   The team from DDI will be trained in using the new in-situ water quality testing
equipment. They will familiarize themselves with the new testing techniques that have been
developed using selective enzymes for testing the presence of organic pollutants. They will
bring along about a dozen water samples from different parts of the delta and also frozen
Cormoran eggs, to have these tested for residus of toxins. On the basis of the test results,
the need and type of more refined testing equipment will be determined in the light of the
available supplies in Tulcea of support facilities, such as helium gas for gas-chromatography.
A possible later return visit for the two chemists is foreseen to obtain further hands-on
experience with more sophisticated equipment.



- 98 -                                 Annex6
Page 11 of 15
Place/Duration of Training
37.   The N.V. Waterwinningsbedrijf Brabantse Biesbosch has offered to serve as host for
the training visit. A two week first stay is foreseen during which also visits will be made to
a laboratory in Ghent, Belgium, specialized in testing for organic pesticides and herbicides.
TERMS OF REFERENCE POLDER RESTORATION - TRAINING
VEGETATION MAPPING AT AUEN INSTITUTE, GERMANY
Qualification and Experience
38.   Two recently graduated DDI vegetation biologists, who will participate in the baseline
vegetation mapping and the annual vegetation monitoring of the polders that will be restored.
Scope of Work
39.   In-service training in the Auen Institute in Germany to learn the setting up of
vegetation transsects and mapping techniques.
Place/Duration of Duty
40.   Two weeks early in year 1 and another 2 weeks in year 3 of the project.
TERPMS OF REFERENCE FOR REED RESTORATION RESEARCH - TRAIING
AUTOANALYZER WATER ANALYSIS
Qualifications and Experience
41.   A water quality analysis expert from the University of Georgia with experience in
operating and maintaining continuous auto-analyzers.
Scope of Work
42.   Instruct three graduate students, who will be working in the Reed Restoraton Research
program, in the operation, calibration and maintenance of the continuous water autoanalysis
equipment that will be installed by the University of Georgia under its research agreement
with DDI.
Place/Duration of Duty
43.   The DDI research station at Uslina on the Sf. Gheorghe. Four weeks of instruction
giving hands-on experience during year 1 of the project.



_ 99 _                                Annex 6
Page 12 of 15
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ROMANIA ECOSYSTEMS RESTORATTION
STURGEON HATCHERY - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Qualifications and Experience
44.   Ichthyologists, hatchery operators and water chemists from the Regensburg fish
extension service and the Woellersdorf sturgeon hatchery.
Scope of Work
45.   The German team will assist their DDI counterparts in setting up and accompanying
the basic research into sturgeon behaviour. They will review alternative methods of restoring
the sturgeon population, including restoration of spawning grounds in small tributaries of the
Danube in Romania. If a hatchery in Romania appears the most appropriate solution, they
decide on which types of lower Danube sturgeons may be suitable for propagation in the
proposed hatchery. They will advise on location and operation of the proposed hatchery.
Place/Duration of Duty
46.   It is foreseen that the German experts will spend three manmonths in and near Tulcea
during the first year, while for subseguent years between half and one manmonth per year
are foreseen for follow-up assistance.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ROMANIA ECOSYSTEMS RESTORATION
STIIRGEON HATCHERY - DESIGN OF HATCHERY
Qualifications and Experience
47.   The team that designed the Woellersdorf (Germany) sturgeon hatchery, plus surveyor
and draughtsmen.
Scope of Work
48.   Anticipating a positive outcome of the DDI studies of spawning and migration of
Romanian sturgeons, the German design team will prepare the design drawings for the new
sturgeon hatchery.
Place/Duration of Duty
49.   Field work at the site for the hatchery, to be selected on the Sf. Gheorghe
downstream from Tulcea. Most office design work to be carried out in Germany. About
two manyears of combied different specializations will be required. Designs and
specifications, including those for the laboratory and equipment, to be completed by the end
of the first project year.



- 100 -                                 Annex 6
Page 13 of 15
50.   Important is to estimate, on the basis of the German experience, the requirements in
staff, chemicals and other recurrent consumables and in particular the annual power
consumption of the proposed Romanian hatchery, so that DDI and DDBRA can request their
Ministry to decide about the availability of funds to sustain the operation of the hatchery, and
whether construction is to proceed or not.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ROMANIA ECOSYSTEMS RESTORATION
STURGEON HATCHERY - IN-SERVICE TRAINING FOR FISH HATCHERY
OPERATORS
(To be selected by DDI)
Qualifications and Experience
51. Two fish hatchery operators with experience in operating hatcheries of species
different from sturgeon.
Scope of Work
52. In-service training at the German sturgeon hatchery. Familiarization of typical
problems associated with breeding of sturgeons in captivity, including maintenance of water
quality standards.
Place/Duration of Duty
53.   The Regensburg fish extension service sturgeon hatchery in Woellersdorf. Two
persons during a ten month period.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ECOSYSTEMS RESTORATION
CARAORMAN CANAL CLOSURE - ENGINEERING
Qualifications
54.   Hydraulic engineer with experience in river protection and canal construction in the
lower delta.
Scope of Work
55.   Design closure of the Caraorman canal inlet in the Sulina river branch, leaving a
narrow opening for local traffic by small boats. Determine size of rock riprap protection
against erosion from shipping waves in the Sulina channel at the site of the proposed closure.
Prepare cost estimate of proposed works.



- 101 -                                Annex
Page 14 of 15
Place/Duration of Duty
56.   Design to be carried out in Romania, preferably in Tulcea. Two manmonths are
foreseen.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ECOSYSTEMS RESTORATION
PILOT FINGERLING PROTECTION - STUDY TOURS AND ENGINEERING
Qualifications and Experience
57.   Mechanical and pumping station design engineer.
Scope of Work
58.   Visit constructions and devices used at the intakes of large pumping stations to
prevent the entry of fish in the pumps. Design a fish protection for the Sarichioi 2 irrigation
pumping station.
Place/Duration of Duty
59.   Visits would be made to the Ukraine, Russia and the UK to inspect installations and
recommended solutions. Surveys, civil and mechanical design work by local engineers is
estimated to require about 6 manmonths. Study tour and design would take place in year
two.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROCUREMENT ADVISOR (EXPATRIATE)
Qualifications and Experience
60.   He should have qualifications and experience in procurement procedures, including
World Bank procurement procedures, for goods, works, technical assistance and training.
Scope of Work
61.   The Contractor will assist DDI and DDBRA with preparation of tender documents,
including technical specifications for the goods and works to be procured under the project.
He will advise on local and international shopping procedures and on criteria for bid
evaluation, and will train local staff in these matters. He will leave computerized
documentation behind him. He will also advise on payment procedures for overseas training
courses.



- 102 -                                Annex 6
Page 15 of 15
Place/Duration of Duty
62.   The expert will be in Romania for 3 months in year 1, 1 month in year 2 and 1
month in year 3, mainly in Tulcea but also in Bucharest as needed. The foreign expert may
be supported by local TA if necessary.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROGRAMME COORDINATOR/FINANCIAL
ADMINISTRATOR
Qualifications and Experience
63.   He would have practical experience in protected area management and administration,
together with qualifications in finance/accounting, and, preferably, ecology.
Scope of Work
64.   The Program Advisor/financial administrator would design the establishment of
financial recording systems for project expenditures, together with a simple programming
system to assure that the appropriate 'critical paths" in project implementation are followed.
He would work closely with and train DDI and DDBRA staff in these procedures. He would
have understanding of World Bank project disbursement procedures and financial reporting
requirements.
65.   He would also work with local staff to design simple project achievement monitoring
indicators, and would ensure that the results of the ecosystems monitoring and impact
monitoring of pilot wetland restoration activities incorporated into these monitoring
indicators.
Place/Duration of Duty
66.   The expert would be based in Tulcea Romania, for 2 months in the first year of
project implementation, 2 months in the second year, and 1 month in the third year. The
foreign expert may be supported by local TA if necessary.



ROMANIA
Danube Delta Blodiversity Project
Inflation and Exchange Rates
Up to
Up to    Project
Negotiation  Start  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
Inflation (in G') /a
alI
Annual rates
Local                                    0.0      0.0   1.3   1.2   2.4   3.2   3.4
Foreign                                  0.0      0.0   1.3   1.2   2.4   3.2   3.4
Comzpounded rates
Local                                    0.0      0.0   0.6   1.9   3.7   6.7  10.2              1
Foreign                                  0.0      0.0   0.6   1.9   3.7   6.7  10.2             J-
Lxchange rates (Loaal/roreign) /b                                                                           w
all
Rates actually used                          1.0      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
Constant purchasing parity rates             1.0      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
% deviation                                  0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
\a Yearly values are within Each Project Year
\b Yearly values are at Project Year Midpoints
Wed Nov 17 20:21:09 1993
(D
0



- 104 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
ROMANIA
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1.  Danube Delta Biodiversity Project, Field Preparation Report, Huntings & Binnies,
August 1993.
2.  Environmental Status Report, Conservation Status of the Danube Delta, IUCN 1992.
3.  EBRD Draft Inception Report, Technical Cooperation Project, Euroconsult/IUCN,
April 1993.
4.  Danube Delta Management Objectives, DDBRA, IUCN, September 1991.



lula)t-~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R,, A II
_~~~~~~~~~ REiRE          k/r0                                                                
a Kqpinice~~~B.gonu\57uob usK< ;  .                                                  V r .oV
ISMAnk-i H  MRGHO   A4L    
-^-a  8Raduc      ~t              = n                    /-EVNC j                        t        I                r
t ~         (       L oz           i         4         /    )       N      \     .> ,X
T  )UDA G>"Hip'  HI, Drnvs                                          \ -                   V.
r9lAuj9                                                                                  "f,Gx  \\   <
ESRV                                                                                             ULUorA .    W-.WzA1J;NZIOle< 'ii
TYCA9\g,S\.                           .         @                         :      -zr-r
S9Ft- - {  _N,6  o Csa/
i     q         g    ,        r                                                         O , 4Ag    B 10tt
-.6-r      :              dRN   /    ....                  r-AI                                                     i4
O V|% 1'         WLLO  /'N-   - - -GOA   NIRiMN   AIIY
5Ioi O t > fN- :    Ll taibit  .;'ROANA  ANBEDETABIDIERITdPOJC
;r},;--- :S -,.j:..................... ..- ... -- ^>^~_AtU R7
r~~~~~~~~~~S r,M,UR ,PIla   iGHIOLoEREE>Es7 ^                                                   + "-
s 2 - - S (;)X bOFI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EVAE; cr
S.5;51TA /;oz                      )  HR E]                      sL-LtS  rDR 
IQSI  &-?|GID)                             INN46rltm                                ,xttNt  ,         O<AN
)  te   yCo,-Z                   w4RALicUEfFEAN4NLPOPIhNAVARE 
C- .                        C ANDrRs . .sDRPUL2 /, 10ii
3 /. INENAOA tKNAIE .YGRAIPJGRI  t
,l-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  It 1r r   ra{_OM,-






-  S ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



* '*                 -.-      -   D-                                                                             '20  4\, s;'-  --         -     _ V
ts  0                             f         '         .      '         ,          '.- --                                    "-''           /.'. /  4
/ 4 -                           .I                                      V  .
-     ;                         r |   > 0-**         *-"  
*   J   ,          _     ,                                            _         -           ,;                ,        ,~~'4 -
@ ~ ~     ~         ~         ~         ~        ~       ~         i Prne   nrcce   ae   -- .- .. ,A      ,'-



