                                    Documentof
                                 The World Bank




                                                   ReportNo.: 32684




             PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT




                                    ROMANIA




                  DANUBEDELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
                              (GET GRANT28860)




                                  June 20,2005




Sector, Thematic,and Global Evaluation Group
OperationsEvaluation Department

CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

Currency Unit=RomanianLei
1994 US$1.0                -         1,683 Lei (appraisal)
2000 US$l.O               -         24,129 Lei (completion)


ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


DDBR              DanubeDelta BiosphereReserve
DDBRA             DanubeDelta BiosphereReserve Authority
EBRD              EuropeanBankfor ReconstructionandDevelopment
GEF               Global Environment Facility
GET               Global Environment Trust
GIS               Geographic Information System
ICR               ImplementationCompletion Report
IUCN              InternationalUnionfor the ConservationofNature
MoE              MinistryofWaters, ForestsandEnvironment Protection
NGO              Non Government Organization
NIB              Nordic InvestmentBank
OED              OperationsEvaluationDepartment (of the World Bank)
PISJ             Project ImplementationUnit
RIZA             Rijkswaterstaat, The Netherlands
WWF              World Wildlife Fund



FISCALYEAR
Government:               January 1- December 31




Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation           : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment         : Mr.R.KylePeters
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation         : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             : Mr.George T. KeithPitman

                                                             1




   OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programs and activitiesof the World Bankfor two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrity of the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is
 producingthe expected results, and second,to help developimproveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
 the Banks lendingoperations. Inselecting operations for assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselected for assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report(PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report(a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department)and fieldworkconducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents,interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit
the borrowingcountryfor onsitediscussionswith projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validateand augment the informationprovidedin the ICR,as well as examine issuesof special interestto broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer reviewprocess and OED management approval.Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank departmentand amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attachedto the documentthat is sent to the Banks
 Board of ExecutiveDirectors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-testedevaluationmethodsused by OED are suitedto the broadrangeof the World Bank'swork.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessarylevelof flexibilityto adaptto lending instrument, projectdesign, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluatorsall apply the same basicmethod to arriveat their project ratings. Followingis
the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluation criterion(more informationis availableon the OED website:
http://worldbank.orgloedleta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives; The extent to which the project'sobjectivesare consistentwith the country's
current development prioritiesand with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers,Country Assistance Strategies,Sector Strategy Papers,
OperationalPolicies).Possibleratings: High,Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extentto which the project's objectiveswere achieved,or expectedto be achieved, taking into
accounttheir relative importance. Possibleratings: High,Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extentto which the project achieved,or is expectedto achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunitycost of capital and benefitsat leastcost compared to alternatives.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest,Negligible.This rating is not generallyappliedto adjustment operations.
      Susfainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely,Highly Unlikely,Not Evaluable.
      lnstifufional Development lmpacf: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitableand sustainableuse of its human, financial, and naturalresourcesthrough: (a)
better definition,stability,transparency,enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsandlor (b)
better alignment of the missionand capacityof an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutionalarrangements.InstitutionalDevelopmentImpactincludesboth intendedand unintendedeffects of a
project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectiveswere achieved,or are expected to be
achieved,efficiently. Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensuredquality at entry and
supportedimplementationthrough appropriatesupervision(includingensuringadequatetransitionarrangements
for regularoperationof the project). Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extentto which the borrowerassumedownershipand responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenantsand agreements,towards the
achievement of development objectivesand sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.


                                                                        ...
                                                                        111



Contents                                        I




Principal RatingsandKey StaffResponsible                                      ..................................................................  v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................          ..
                                                                                                                                                 vi1

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................         ix

1 Background
 .                       ..................................................................................................................       1

2 The Project
 .                      ...................................................................................................................       3

         Objectives................................................................................................................. 4
         ImplementingArrangements....................................................................................                             5
         Implementation ........................................................................................................                  5
3 Evaluation
 .                   .....................................................................................................................        5

                    Counterfactual..............................................................................................                  5
                    Monitoring andEvaluation..........................................................................                            6
         Outcome...................................................................................................................               6
         Relevance................................................................................................................. 6
         Efficacy .................................................................................................................... 8
         Efficiency., .............................................................................................................. 16
         Institutional Development Impact..........................................................................                              17
         Sustainability.......................................................................................................... 20
                        . .

         Bank Performance ................................................................................................. 22
         Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                         22
4.   Findings and Lessons               .................................................................................................        23

        Lessons...................................................................................................................               24
Annex A BasicData Sheet
           .                               ..............................................................................................        27




This reportwaspreparedby GeorgeT.KeithPitman.who assessedthe projectinOctober2004.The report
was editedby William Hurlbut.and Soon-WonPakprovidedadministrative support.


                                                    V



PrincipalRatingsand Key StaffResponsible

ROMANIA DANUBEDELTA BIODIVERSITYPROJECT(GET GRANT 28660)

                                          ICR*                 ICR Review          PPAR
Outcome                                   Satisfactory         Satisfactory        Moderately
                                                                                   satisfactory
Sustainability                            Likely               Likely              Likely
InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact            High                 Substantial         Modest
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory         Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory         Satisfactory        Satisfactory

    0    The ImplementationCompletionReport(ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperational
         division of the Bank. The ICR Reviewis an intermediateOED productthat seeks to independently
         verify the findings of the ICR.




Project                    TaskManager                   Division Chief/          Country
                                                         SectorManager            Director
Appraisal (1994)           Majorie-AnneBromhead          James T. Goering         MichaelWiehen
Completion(2000)           Donna Rachita                 Majory-Anne              Andrew Vorkink
                                                         Bromhead


                                              vii


Preface

        This isthe ProjectPerformanceAssessmentReport (PPAR) preparedbythe
Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED) for the Romania Danube Delta Biodiversity
Project. The project, estimated at appraisal to cost US$4.8 million, was approved inAugust
 1994for a Global Environment Trust Grant o fUS$4.5 milliono fwhich US$4.3 million
was disbursed due to exchange rate fluctuations. The project closed on schedule inJune
2000when US$66,000 was cancelled. At completiontotal project costs were US$4.5
million.

        This report is basedon the ImplementationCompletionReport(ICR) prepared by
the Europe and Central Asia Region (Report No. 21537 dated December 2000), the
Memorandum and Recommendation o fthe President, the Global Environment Facility
Project Document, loan documents, project files, and discussions with Bank staff. An
OEDmissionvisitedRomaniainOctober 2004 to discussthe effectiveness o fthe Bank's
assistancewith representatives o fthe government, project implementing agencies,
nongovernmental agencies, and with beneficiaries. The cooperation and assistance o f
central government andregional officials and staff, the Danube DeltaBiosphereReserve
Authority, the DanubeDeltaNational Institute, nongovernmental stakeholders, and other
interestedparties are gratefblly acknowledged.

        The project was selected for performance assessment for two reasons. First, this
project was parto fthe first global round o f GEF's biodiversity grants that are now
reachingcompletion. Second, an almost identical GEF project, coveringthe Ukrainian
portion o fthe Danube Delta, has also been completedandwas assessed along with this
project to draw lessons from the different approaches to biodiversity conservation.

       Following standardOED procedures, this draft PPAR was sent to the borrower
for comments but none were received.


                                               ix


  Summary

         The RomanianDanube DeltaBiodiversity GEF Project, the first project aimed at
 protecting Black Seawetlands, was designed as a pilot for a broader regional initiative
 includingtwo GEF regional projects, one for the DanubeRiver basin, and one for the
 Black Sea. Duringthe identification o fthe Romanianproject, Ukraine became a member
 o fthe World Bank andthe scope of the project was amended to provide parallel support
 to the Ukrainianportion o fthe DanubeDelta. Bothprojects aimed to raise the level o f
 national and international interest inthe protectionandmanagement o f the whole Danube
 Delta area.

         The global objective ofthe project was to protect andenhance the ecosystems and
 biodiversity o f the Danube Deltawithin Romania. There were six components: strengthen
 the wardens' department o f the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority; undertake
 ecosystem restorationo f wetlands, fisheries and buffer zones; pilot restorationo f polders
 to natural conditions and assist research into reed restoration; implement monitoringto
 provide the basis for the development o f a natural resource management plan; raise
 public awareness and foster activities with community involvement; and coordinate the
 project with the GEF UkrainianDanube Delta Biodiversity Project. It was originally
 anticipated that the European Bankfor Reconstruction and Development would provide
 parallel financing to support socio-economic development inthe Danube Deltabased on
 tourism and some modest infrastructure components. However, following cancellation o f
 the EBRDproject, the community development activities o f the GEF project also tried to
 incorporate natural resource-based economic activities.

        The project objective was substantially achieved butwith significant
 shortcomings andthe outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory. Ecosystems were
protected becausethe GEF project strengthened the capacity o f the DanubeDelta
Biosphere Reserve Authority to implement effective regulation. The quality o f the
landscapes and biodiversity was enhancedthrough reclamationo f abandoned polders and
small-scale local improvements. However, the Reserve Authority gave almost no
attention to ensuring sustainable livelihoods for the 14,300 residents o f the Danube Delta
whenthey privatizedmany o fthe commonpoolresources or changed traditional land
management practices.

        Overall institutional development impact i s rated as modest notwithstandingthe
significant capacity-building within the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority and
the Danube DeltaNational Institute. While it i s positive that the management and
regulation o fthe Reserve hadbeen separatedfrom science and conservation, there has
been little progress with integratingthe economic concerns o f local residents withinthe
reserve's management plan. Extensivepublic awarenessi s not the same as inclusion.

        Sustainability i s ratedas likely. The Reserve Authority has enlarged and legally
securedthe integrity o fthe biosphere reserve. Budget support from the Ministryof
Environment appears assured- evenifless than required. Income generated within the
reserve from licensing, reedcutting, fisheries leases andtourism fills some o f the gap
betweenthe centralbudget contribution andtotal runningcosts. The Institute's growing

                                                X



environmental consultancy work provides 40 percent o f its income, and government
budget support i s assured. Exogenous factors give the Reserve andInstitute high
internationalvisibility and the requirements for EUaccessions and subsequent support
almost guarantee its sustainability.

       Overall Bank andBorrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

       There are four lessons:

e  Biodiversity conservation cannot be carried out inisolation. Ithas to be integrated
   withinthe economic interests oflocal andregional communities. Resentmentis
   created when financing o f nature conservation appears to have preference over unmet
   local needs, be it employment or delivery o f basic services. Failure to integrate local
   interests inthe conservation andmanagement strategy o f a biosphere reserve can
   endanger its longer-term sustainability.

   Conservationareas will be sustainable only ifthere is good management and
   sufficient funding. GEF project designers must help establish sound management and
   governance arrangements that include local stakeholders andpromote income-
   generating activities. This i s particularly important inbiosphere reserves where
   people are as important as the flora and fauna beingprotected.

e  When establishing biodiversityreserves, facilitate networking o f the reserve staff
   with the national andinternational NGOsandpromoterecognitionby international
   conventions. The benefits are two-fold. First, it provides a conduit for research
   funding. Second, itcreates a supportive network.

   GEF shouldmove towards a country-focused strategic approachto complement its
   thematically-driven development framework. By doing so GEF would develop
   synergy from a more coherent policy framework, thus improving effectiveness and
   reducing transaction costs for Romania.




                                                                             Ajay Chhibber
                                                                  Acting Director-General
                                                                    Operations Evaluation

                                                           1


  1.       Background

  1.           Romania, with a populationo f 22 million, is the second-largest country in
  Central and Eastern Europe that initiated, in 1990,transition from a rigid, centrally
 planned and self-reliant command economy to a market economy. Inan attempt to
 minimize the social costs of transition the Romaniangovernment initially hesitated to
 impose tight fiscal constraints andprivatize large loss-making enterprises; as a result, the
 economy continuedto decline. Subsequently, attempts to impose macroeconomic
 stability without underlyingreforms inthe late 1990s ledto negative economic growth,
 andpoverty increased sharply, doubling from 20 percent in 1996 to 41 percent in 1999.
 Romaniathen became a pilot country for the Comprehensive Development
 Framework from 1999.National consultations revealed a clear consensus among
 Romanians that the country's twin development objectives should be reducing poverty
 andjoining the EU.

 2.           The World Bank is Romania's largest creditor andBank assistanceto the
 country covers practically all areas o f the economy. Mainfocal areas have been
 facilitating interregionaltrade, infrastructure rehabilitation, including mitigationo f
 earthquake damage, transport, assistanceto close down uneconomic extractive industries,
 andsocial programs includingthose directed at poor m a l communitiesand urbanstreet
 children. The Bank Group and GEF environmentalportfolio inRomania, although
 modest insize, has become increasingly important because o f the needto meet EU
 accession requirements on the environmentprior to entry in2007.

 3.           The Danube DeltaBiodiversity Project (1994) was the first environmental
 project to enter the portfolio, followed bythe Biodiversity Conservation Project for the
 forests o fthe Carpathians in 1999. Since 2001 three projects focusing on reducing
 pollution to the Danube River andthe Black Sea and on increasing energy efficiency
 have been approved. Current Bank/IFC/GEF commitment is US$257 million, most o f
 which (US$203 million) is for mitigation o f the hazard imposedby mine drainage and
tailings ponds.

 4.           The DanubeDelta, an importantwildlife habitat andeconomic resource shared
between Ukraine andRomania, i s the second largest wetland inEurope and, despite the
attempts to commercially develop its landand water resources over the period 1950-90,
remains remarkably intact. * Romania's Sulina channel, straightened for shippinginthe
                                 ` 3
 1890s,provides the basis for important navigation andport activities, and commercial


 1. The total area o fthe Danube Delta is 5,640 square kilometers o f which about a fifth (1,220 square
kilometers) lie in Ukraine, the rest inRomania. The Kiliya branch, the northemmost major distributary o f
the River Danube, conveys about 60 percent o fthe River Danube's annual discharge to the Black Sea and
forms the boundary between Romania and Ukraine.
2. Reed harvesting for cellulose and pulp was a major activity inthe 1950s.Polders were constructed to
control water levels and encourage reedgrowth and eventually 160,000 ha was harvested. However, the
heavy equipment destroyed the reed beds and production dropped from 200,000 tondyear to about 50,000
tondyear inthe last decade. There then followed a phase of aquaculture (1960-197Os), followed by
attempts to convert to agriculture inthe 1980s. InFebruary 1990all state activities stopped. Personal
communication: Mr.Virgil Munteanu.

                                                             2


 fishingtargets about a thirdofthe 75 speciesof fish. Tourism is important accounting for
 over 100,000 visitors in 1991-a markeddecline from the 173,000 visitors in 1987.

 5.            The Danube Delta is an important wildlife habitat andhas the largest number
 o f birdso f any SouthEuropean wetland. Over 170 bird species breed inthe Deltaand it is
 a key area for passageo f an additional 150 species o f migrants and wintering birds. The
 total number o f winter wildfowl may exceed two million. Exploitationfor agriculture,
 pond fisheries and sandextraction and lack o f sustainable resource management putthe
 Delta's status as a wildlife habitat and economic resource at risk.3Decline o f fisheries
 allied with closure o f many government ventures ledto highunemployment. By the mid-
 1990sthe population o fthe Romanianpart o fthe Deltahas declined by 30 percent, to an
 estimated 15,000 people.

 6.            In1979the Romaniangovernment declared anintemationalbiosphere reserve
 and extended it in 1992 to cover 590,000 ha o fthe Delta, including 53,000 ha under strict                         .
 protection, adjacent coastline and water bodies (Table 1). The biosphere concept
 followed UNESCO's ManandBiosphere Program inwhich a strictly protected areais
 surrounded by a buffer zone which inturnis surrounded by a transition zone that includes
 traditional landuse, settlement andrecreation, and limited economic activity. The idea is
 that endangeredresourceswill be protected ifthe interests o fthe surrounding community
 andsustainablenatural resourceusearefully integratedunder reservemanagement. Table
 2 summarizes the sequence o f institutionalrecognition and status ofthe transfrontier
 Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve.

 Table 1:The compositionof the RomanianDanubeDeltaBiosphereReserve

                         Designation                           Area, ha     Proportion o fTotal
                                                                                  Area

  Strictly ProtectedCoreArea natureReserves (18)               53,000              9%

  BufferZones                                                  333,200            56%

  MarineBufferZone                                             103,000             17%
  Agricultural polders, fish culture ponds, and silviculture   102,000             17%

  DanubeDeltaBiosphereReserve -Total Area                      591,200            100%



7.            The DanubeDelta BiosphereReserve Authority (DDBRA) was established as
the mainregulatory andmanagement ~rganization.~governmental decree also stopped
                                                                   A
all future reclamationworks, banned sandminingand established a policy that gives
priority to conservation inthe Delta. At the start o fthe GEF project the Danube Delta
accounted for more thanhalfo fall the nature reserve area inRomania.




3. One indication o f this i s the decrease inthe catch o f migratory (sturgeon, shad) and other fish (carp, pike,
zander, bream), once a major resource. For example, the annual sturgeon catch has declined from 1,000
tons inthe 1930s to the current 10 tons.
4. The functions and structure ofthe DDBRA were clarified inLaw 821'1993, approved inDecember 1993.

                                                        3


 Table2: Internationalinstitutionalrecognitionofthe transfrontierDanubeDelta

j           S           ~           H          E RESERVE   N          WORLD                RAMSAR
                                                                  HERITAGE SITE           WETLAND




 8.          A team coordinated by the InternationalUnionfor the Conservation o fNature
 (IUCN) sponsored the first InternationalDanube Delta Biosphere Reserve Planning
 Seminar inSeptember 1991. Apart from the interest this raised from a range o f
 internationalorganizations, bilateral donors, and environmental NGOs, the seminar also
produced the components o f a management planincluding establishment o f legal and
 administrative objectives, and conservation, socioeconomic, research and monitoring and
public awareness objectives for improvedDelta management. Support to develop the
administrativeframework and a management plan(including looking at local livelihoods)
was provided through a small grant from the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD).6 The GEF project was designed to complement EBRD's program
by focusing on the technicalaspectsofbiodiversityconservation and on protected area
management.



2.       The Project

9.          The original Danube Delta GEFProject plannedassistanceonly to the
Romanianpart o f the delta. Duringthe identification o f the Romanianproject, when
Ukraine became a member o f the Bank, it was decided to increase the scope o fthe GEF's
support to cover the whole delta andraise the level o f national and internationalinterest
intheprotectionandmanagementofthe area. A single project for the whole Danube
Deltawas considered but rejected as being impracticable given the widely differing
institutions inthe two countries. Thus the two projects were approved and implemented
inparallel.




5. In 1979, an areao f 18,145ha was internationally designated as Rosca-Letea Biosphere Reserve. An area
o fNational Decree No. 983 with supporting Articles 5, and 6 on 27 August 1990 increasethis areato
500,OO ha. This area was further enlargedto 547.000 ha in 1991.
6. Itwas expectedthat the EBRDgrant would be followed by a ECU2.3 million loan to finance the
headquartersbuilding for DDBRA, a visitors' center andrangers' field posts. This did not happen.

                                                          4


  OBJECTIVES

  10.         The GEF Trust FundAgreement defined a very broadobjective: to protect and
  enhance the ecosystems and biodiversity o fthe Danube Delta within Romania. This
  objective was to be achieved through six components (Table 3.)

  11.         Originally, the objective was more nuanced: "the project aims to protect and
  enhancethe Romaniandelta ecosystems, contributing to the conservation o f biodiversity
 withinthe delta, strengthening the capacity ofthe DDBRAto manageprotected areas
 effectively, and working with local community groups to ensure sustainable resource use.
 The project mustalso be seen inthe context o fthree other GEF projects being developed
 inthe region.. ..andanobjective ofall three projectsisto demonstrate the value ofa
 coordinated approach to resolving water pollutionand biodiversity problems with trans-
 border linkage^."^

 Table 2: ProjectComponentsand Costs
                                 Components                                    Costs (US$ million)
    1. Strengtheningthe institutional and operational capabilitiesofthe       Planned         Actual
 EcologicalWarden's Department to improve its work in support o fnature.
 protection, nature surveys and interpretation, and public awareness,          $1.50          $1.80

 including technical assistance, training, housing, offices and park-related
 infrastructure, and equipment, vehicles andboats.
    2. Carry out a monitoring program to provide the basis for
 development o f resourcemanagementplans. Monitoringwould include
 population species inventories, ecosystems surveys, hydrological              $0.65          $1.14

 monitoring, and development o f an integrated database usinga geographical
 information system.
   3. Initiate ecosystemsrestoration covering lakes, establishment of
 village woodlots, willow planting, pilot fingerling protection, landscape
 enhancements,and establish a small grants fund to finance applied             $1.17          $0.81

 researchto improve ecosystem and land zoning management.
  4. Carry out of a pilot program of up to 60,000 ha for polder
 restoration to natural condition and o fan applied researchprogram for
wetland reedrestoration, includingtechnical assistance, training, civil works  $0.57          $0.27

and equipment.
   5. Develop modalitiesfor regional cooperationand coordination in
Black Sea environmental programs and with the Ukrainian authorities
involved inthe protectionand enhancement o f ecosystemsand biodiversity        $0.19          $0.24

o fthe Danube Delta. Strengthen the capacity of the Danube Delta
BiosphereReserveAuthority and Danube Delta Institute in
procurement, financial management and program coordination.
   6. Increase public awareness of, and community and local non-
governmental organizationsinvolvementin, ecologicalprotection
includingtraining, equipment and materials, a visitor's center, district       $0.16          $0.24
exhibition centers and field observation posts.
                                       Priceand Physicalcontingencies          $0.56
                                                         Total ProiectCost     $4.80          $4.50


7. Final ExecutiveProject Summary.September 14, 1993. The three other projects were: The Ukraine
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project (GETGrant 28654), the UNDP/World Bank Environmental Programme
for the Danube River Basin and the Black Sea Environmental Programme.

                                                   5


  IMPLEMENTING      ARRANGEMENTS

  12.        The executing agency was the Ministry of Waters, Forests andEnvironment
 Protection. (hereafter the MoE). At project initiationthe Ministry's Department for
 EnvironmentalProtection was responsible for management o f the project through the
 Reserve Authority andthe semi-autonomous DanubeDeltaInstitute that undertakes
 research activities. Concerned that institutional weakness at the MoE would delay
 decision-making, the government agreed to decentralize management to the Reserve
 Authority without need o f a specialized project management unit,thus buildinglocal
 skills and ownership, with the MoEmaintaining a coordinating role. Inadditionto
 EBRD's inputs, other organizations were to helpinthe early years ofthe projectto
 implement some ofthe GEF components thoughbilateraltechnical assistance givenby
 the World Wildlife Fund(Germany), Birdlife International, the American Academy o f
 Sciences (coordinating participationo f American Universities) and the Dutch
 Rijkswaterstaat (RIZA).

 IMPLEMENTATION

 13.        After the initial delay o f six months awaiting effectiveness, implementation
 proceeded smoothly andthe project closed on schedule. Soon afterwards, a cooperative
 agreement was drawn up between the RomanianReserve Authority andthe Ukrainian
 DanubePlavni Reserve Authority to facilitate exchange o f information andjoint
 activities between the two countries. Counterpart fimdingbecame an issue in 1998 (after
 the government imposedbudgetaryconstraints and limits on recruitment), butthis was
 resolved quite quickly. Even so, there was significant staff turnover (25 percent) because
 o f the non-competitivepublic sector salaries. The Reserve Authority's unfamiliarity with
 the Bank's procurement requirements, allied withinattentionto development of sound
 accounting andmanagerial procedures following the early termination o f the EBRD
 support (para S), created procurement problems such that a procurement specialist joined
 some o f the later supervision missions.



3.       Evaluation

Counterfactual

14.         Without the project itwas feared that the biodiversity o fthe Romanianportiono f
the delta would become increasingly threatened by illegal huntingand fishing drivenbythe
relatively highlevels o funemployment andpoverty inthe region. This would come about
becausethe ReserveAuthority had insuflicient staff andresourcesto effectively regulate,
access and license the biosphere reserve, andbecausethere were substantial areas o f
administrative overlap amongthe Reserve Authority, the Tulchea Prefecturate and the
EnvironmentalProtectionAgency.

15.         Itwas also believedthat, without the GEFgrant, interest inthe deltawould
languish.Romaniapoliticians regardedenvironmental conservation inthe early 1990sas an

                                                        6


 unaffordableluxurygiven the more immediateeconomic andpolitical issues, andthe need
 to generate employment and sustainbasic services (para 1). Andwhile there was
 considerable external NGO interest inworking on DanubeDeltabiodiversity andrelated
 research, few would commit to working with the Reserve Authority given its uncertain
 future andfunding. Thus without GEF grant support it was fearedthat the Reserve
 Authority would beisolatedfrom the Europeanconservationmainstreamandthe
 internationalconservationistNGO community.


 Monitoringand Evaluation

 16.          Great attention was given to enhancingthe monitoring, evaluation and
 mapping ofthe reserve's land, biodiversity and aquatic resources, including dealing with
 a large backlog ofobservations and establishingappropriate databases. Less attention was
 given inbythe GEF to M&E systems for strategicplanning andmanagement. .

 17.          The level of biodiversity monitoring andevaluation was brought to
 international standards with the assistance ofa number of international and local NGOs
 (e.g., WWF, BirdLife International, the RomanianOrnithological Society andothers).
 The standardsadoptedcomply withthe Bank's guidelines for biodiversity projects.'
 Evensso, the absenceofa comprehensivebaselineat the start ofthe project means that
 success cannot be fully assessed. Consequentlythey haveto be inferred from partial data
 of differing standards.

 OUTCOME

 18.          The outcomeof the GEFDanubeDeltaBiodiversityProject is rated
 moderatelysatisfactory at the time of this evaluation. This rating is basedon
disaggregationo fthe objective accordingto Table 4 andthe individual ratings for how
far the project protected or enhancedecosystems and diversity(Tab1e 5).

RELEVANCE

 19.          Overall relevancewas highat appraisaland remainshigh.

20.           The project was consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy andthe Short
Term ResponseMeasuresunderthe Operational Strategy, inthat this GEF intervention
addressedurgent needs associatedwith the transition, which, since 1989,hadresulted in
increasingthreats to biodiversity.

21.           GEF's principal rationale for the project was that it would protect biodiversity
and improve the management of international waters. Categorizedas a GEF Type-2

8. World Bank. Guidelines for Monitoring andEvaluation for Biodiversity Projects. Environment
Department Papers.No. 065, June 1998.
9. The ECA Region staff disagree with OED's outcome rating: "The statedbasis for downgrading
Outcomes is insufficient attention to local economic development, andfor Institutional Development it is
insufficient inclusivenessAoca1participation inReservemanagement. However, neither o fthese elements
were includedinthe project`s stated objectives, as they were to be addressedthrough a parallel EBRD
project, which was later cancelled. Localeconomic development was not a stated objective o fthe project."

                                                           7


  intervention, the project support enabled the Government o f Romania to realize important
  global benefits from activities which have insufficient nationalbenefits to rank in
  domestic priorities. The RomanianDanubeDelta Biodiversity Project was designedas a
 pilot for a broader regional initiative withtwo other GEF regionalprojects, one for the
 DanubeRiver basinand one for the Black Sea, to synergize the effectiveness of GEF
  interventions. lo

 Table4: EvaluationMatrix-Relationshipof Objectivesto Components
                                               Ecosystems                                     Biodiversity
                         1. Strengtheningthe institutionaland operational
                         capabilities ofthe Ecological Warden's Department
                        2. Carry out a monitoringprogram
                        5(a). Improve regional cooperation and coordination in
                        Black Sea environmental programs                                   (by inference,
   Protect              5(b). Strengthen the capacity of the DDBRA and DDI                protecting ecosystems
                        inprocurement, financialmanagementandprogram                       wiZZ alsoprotect their
                        coordination                                                      biodiversity)

                        6. Increase public awareness and involve community
                        andlocalnon-governmental organizations inecological
                       protection
                       3(a). Initiate ecosystems restoration

   Enhance             3(b). Establish a small grants fundto finance applied research to improve ecosystem
                       and land zoning management
                       4. Carry out ofa pilot programofupto 60,000 ha for polder restoration



 Table5: How the OutcomeRatingwas Derived
            Objectives                 Relative     Relevance            Efficacy        Efficiency       OUTCOME
                                     Importance
   1. Protectecosystems and               1             High          Substantial       Substantial      Satisfactory
   thus their biodiversity
  2. Enhanceecosystems                    2             High          Moderate          Moderate         Moderately
  and thus biodiversity                                                                                unsatisfactory

                 Overallratings                         High          Substantial       Substantial      Moderately
                                                                                                         Satisfactory


22.           Further indicatingownership andrelevance, the Government ofRomania
ratified most relevant international conventions related to the environment.l1

10. The DanubeRiver basinprojecthas attractedfunding ofUS$56.7 millions and focuses on preparationof an action
plan, improved river basinmanagement, a regionalenvironmentalsurvey, an inventory of biological resources,
strengtheningmonitoring, datamanagement, and appliedresearch.The Black Sea program, for US$9.3 millions, has as
its objectivesreversalofenvironmentaldegradationofthe Black Sea, and rational naturalresource management,
developmentof apilot pollutant monitoring program, database, policy and legislative enhancement, preparationof
investmentproposals. and donor mobilization.

11. Biodiversity Convention(Rio de Janeiro), implementedby Law No. 58 of 1994; Conventionfor the
Conservationof EuropeanWildlife andNatural Habitats(Bem), implementedby LawNo. 13 of 1993; Convention
on the Preventionof MarinePollution (London), implementedby Law No. 6 o f 1993; Convention on the Protection
of World Cultural andNatural Heritage(Paris), implementedby LawNo. 187 of 1990; Conventionon Wetlands o f

                                                             8


  Subsequently, the project implementedpriority actions identifiedinthe National
  Biodiversity Conservation Strategy andAction Plan(1996).l2Its focus, specifically on in
  situ conservation, supports implementationo f Article 8 o fthe Conventionon Biological
  Diversity through strengthening support for protected areas and sustainable use in
  adjacent buffer zones. The project i s consistent with Agenda 21 and guidance from the
  Conference o f the Parties since it promoted conservation, management and sustainable
  use o f wetland ecosystems, which include endemic species; involved local communities
  andbuildpartnerships at local, national andregional levels; andpromotedcost effective
  measures to conserve biodiversity.

  23.          The objectives ofthe project are currently relevant. Enhancing the ecosystems
  byremovingderelict infrastructure andreturningit to nature increasedtourism potential
  andthus local incomes. The view o fmost government andother Romanianstakeholders
  interviewedby OED was that the project's capacity-building substantially contributedto
  the general knowledge and scientific andmanagerial networking on environment and
  underpinned Romania's ability to addressthe sort o f imperatives critical to EUaccession.

  EFFICACY

  Overall efficacy i s rated as substantial taking into account the relative importance o f
  objectives and their level o f achievement.

  ObjectiveI:Ecosystems wereprotected: the GEFproject strengthened the capacity of
  theDanubeDelta BiosphereReserveAuthority toprotect ecosystems

  24.          Regulation of fishing appears to be protecting resources. Enhanced
 policing o f fisheries has haltedthe declining yield o f freshwater fish(Figure 1.)Between
  1969 and 1990the annual harvest o f freshwater fishplummeted from about 11,000 tons
 to 4,500 tons due to over-fishing, water pollution andthe buildingo f dams onthe River
 Danube that prevented seasonal migration to spawn. This downward trend continueduntil
  1996, when the Reserve Authority started paying serious attention to regulation, and
 production stabilized.        l3


 25.           The rapidly diminishingcatch o f sturgeon was a particular concern at appraisal
 because recorded catches in 1989 (20 tons) were 90 percent belowthe 1960 harvests (250
tons) and sturgeon were listed as an endangered species under CITES in1998.14While the

International ImportanceEspeciallyas Habitat for Waterfowl (RAMSAR), implementedby Law No. 5 of 1991; and
the Conventionfor the Conservationof Wild Migratory Species (Bonn), implementedby Law No.13 of 1998.

 12. The top three priorities oftheNational Biodiversity ConservationStrategyare: (i)developmentofthe legal
framework and strengtheningthe institutional capacity for conservationof biological diversity; (ii)
                                                                                                  organization ofthe
national systems ofprotectedareas, and (iii)in-situand ex-situ conservationofthreatened, endemic and/or rare species,
andthose with a high economicvalue.

 13. Bell, Sandra. 2004. IntegratedManagement of European Wetlands.A Project of the EuropeanCommission's
FifthFrameworkProgramme(Contract # EVK2-CT2000-2200 l),          contributing to the implementation of the Key Action
"Towards Sustainability" within Energy, Environment and SustainableDevelopment. The research, initiated in2001,
coveredwetlands infour countries: Finland, Greece, Lithuania and Romania(the DanubeDelta).

14.Ministry of Agriculture OrderNo. 350/2001. CITES (the 1966 Conventionon International Trade in
EndangeredSpecies of Wild Faunaand Flora) is an international agreement betweenGovernments. Its aim
i s to ensure that internationaltrade in specimens of wild animals andplantsdoes not threatentheir survival.

                                                       9


 project's proposal to establish a fish-breedingcenter to rejuvenate stocks was abandoned
  after research indicatedthat it was infeasible, monitoring established by the Institutehas
  ledto improvements inthe regulationof sturgeon fisheries. Prior to 2002, weight-based
  sturgeon quotas ledto a predominance o f small fish inmeasured catches. After research
  demonstrated a correlationbetweenweight, age and size, the CITES Secretariat accepted
 the Institute's recommendation that sturgeon quotas be set by weight and size. As a
 result, in2003 larger beluga and stellate sturgeons were caught increasing the proportion
 o f third-timespawners to more then 50 percent. Conversely, it was found that Russian
 sturgeons were heavily over-fished and the quota for 2003 was cut by 83 per~ent.'~'                l6


 26.         Because much ofthe baseline information was absent inthe early 1990s the
 impact o f improvedprotectionand ecosystem enhancement on biodiversity i s almost
 impossibleto determine. Certainly the scientific research assistedby the project produce
 a quantum-leap inknowledge o f the species of flora andfauna occupying the Delta
 (Table 6). Also the few available time series derivedfrom monitoring indicate that the
 occurrence o f some specieshas risendramatically (Figure 2.) Samples from the Martinca
 birdcolony show there is anoverall improvementwith some contractions in2003 due to
 drought and low water levels (Table 7.)

 Figure1:The declineinfish harvesthasbeenhalted




Source: Bell op cit. 2004 (93).




15. There were no male Russian sturgeon and no first-time female spawners (9-1 1years old). First-time
female beluga spawners are 14- 15 years old, second-time 17-19 years, third-time 19-22 years, and fourth-
time 23-24 years. Stellate sturgeons have the same spawning cycles but start about 6 years earlier.
16. Suciu, Radu, M.Paraschiv and M.Suciu. 2004. Monitoring OfBiological Characteristics Of Adult
Sturgeons CapturedIn TheDanubeRiver And Efective ManagementRules. Proceedings o fthe Deltas and
Wetlands Scientific Symposium, Tulcea, Romania 2003. Scientific Annals o fthe Danube Delta Institute.
2003-04.V01 10.

                                                       10




 Table 6: Knowledge on the Delta's Biodiversity SignificantlyIncreased 1990-2004
                 Total in the Reserve        Newly Recorded         New to      New to Science
                                                                    Romania
  Flora                  1,668                     277                28               1
  Fauna                  3,846                     1,92 1             267             37
  Birds          Total in the Reserve         Protected by the Bern Convention  Declared Nature
                                                                                 Monuments
                         325                                 202                       9

 Source: Danube Delta Institute, 2004.



 Figure 2: The Danube Delta Great Cormorant population has recovered




Table 7: As have other bird species




Source: Figure 2 and Table 5 from Bell op. cit. 2004 (88-89)

27.        The Pelican, symbol ofthe Reserve, have increasedalso over the last decade.
Great White pelicans increasedfrom 3,000 to 3,500 pairs, andDalmation Pelicans-the
thirdlargestcolony inEurope - from 300 to 400 pairs in2003. Butin2004, erosionof
nesting sites causedmany birdsto move temporarily to Bulgaria, a move reversedonce

                                                    11


 their habitat was restored by the international NGO comm~nity.'~Most o fthese
 improvements are the result o f improvedcapacity o fthe Reserve Authority and Institute
 facilitated through the GEF project.

 28.         The GEF grant contributed towards buildingthe capacity to implement
 sound biosphere management duringthe period when the Danube Delta Biosphere
 Reserve Authority was increasing its control over the reserve area. National and local
 legitimacy is highbecause the Governor o fthe Reserve Authority i s appointed by the
 Romanian Government at the proposal o fthe MoE subject to approval o fthe Tulcea
 Prefect and the Academy o f Science. The Reserve Authority effectively regulates all
 access to the strictly protected core and, inconsultation withits governing Scientific
 Council that includes all the other organizations involved inthe reserve (local authorities,
 ministries, health services, research institutions, RomanianAcademy o f Science,
 economic companies, etc.), it has a major role inapproving economic activities inthe
 buffer zones and economic areas. In2000, the legal framework o f the authority was
 modifiedto harmonize its role withthe nationalEnvironmental ProtectionAgency." And
 it is expected that anadditional 94,000 haofCounty Council public landswill be
 transferred soon to the Reserve Authority.

 29.         The ReserveAuthority also has the right to establish its own local regulations
 concerning waste disposal, pollution prevention, access, resource use and related matters
 withinthe reserve. And since 1997the ReserveAuthority hadthe authorityto establish
 fishquotas, species-specific open andclosed seasons, andto regulate all fishingwiththe
 reserve area. This was reaffirmed in2001whenParliament also approved laws
 establishing allowable fishing gears andpenalties for infringement o f regulations. In
2002, the Reserve Authority was further empowered to lease out medium-term fishing
rightsinconsultation with the County Council." Bythe same legislation, the Ministry
further ordered restrictiononthe huntingofall water birdandtransitory specieswithin
the reserve.

30.          Staff of the Reserve Authority and the Danube Delta Institute benefited
from extensive overseas and in-country training that brought them into the
mainstream of the European and internationalconservation community.*' This also
allowed foreign wetlands management specialists andNGOs access to the Danube Delta,
contributingto capacity andnetwork-building and a better understanding o f international
wetland management practice. Inadditionto extensive Englishlanguage training,
scientists received technical training that rangedfrom wetlands management and
restoration to bio-business workshops and management o fprotected areas, and also
includedparticipationina number o f international workshops on wetlands. Some o fthis
training was provided by the project, but there were substantive inputs from RIZA,
WWF, BirdLifeandthrough USAID-sponsored geographic informationsystems (GIS)
training specialists.

17. The RomanianOrnithological Society. Newsletter.November 30,2004.
18. Ordinance 11212000.
19. Ministry ofAgriculture, ForestWaters and Environment Order 637Beptember 2003.
20. In2004, the ReserveAuthority had 120membersof staff; the Danube Delta Institute had 116.

                                                     12


 31.          As a result ofthe training andnetworking, staff ofthe Institute are now better
 able to define the biosphere and its resources. Importantly, baseline surveys and
 subsequentmonitoring and evaluation have not only providedbasic management data,
 buthave also helpedto definethe strategy adopted bythe management planfor the
 reserve. Project funding andpartner international NGOs facilitated training and
 participationinconferences, efforts that ledto more efficient ways o f data analysis and
 dissemination and the use o f feedback to improve research and database methodology.
 Institute staff have also published28 books (15 internationally), and over 310 papers, 70
 o f them internationally.

 32.          The establishmentof the GIS center enabledsuccessfulintegrationof
 hydrological,spatialand ecosystem informationandincreasedproductivity.The
 major contribution o fthe project was to provide basic equipment (computers, software,
 and email) that enabled reserve staffto apply their research skills more effectively and
 develop closer contact with scientists abroad the global community of scientists. Among
 the many notable achievements the Reserve Authority andthe Institute, inassociation
 withthe UkrainianDanube PlavniReserve Authority andassistedby the Netherlands,
 produced in2002 the first transboundary vegetation map o f the whole Danube Delta.'l
 Andwithinthe reserve, the integrationo f ecological andfisheries data with geographical
 informationled to identification andvalidation o f 30 ecosystems. This inturn ledto the
 designation of 25 fishing sub-areas within the delta that allowed fine-tuning o fresource
 management and regulatory activities. Thus the GIS facility not only increased the
 Institute's and Reserve Authority's ability to better present and publicize their activities
but it also supported development ofpaidcontact work that enhances sustainabilityo fthe
Institute(para 57).

33.          Recognizingthe marked improvement inthe capability o f the Danube Delta
Institute, the government significantly expandedits mandate in 1999 andrenamed it the
DanubeDeltaNationalInstitute. Thus it is now authorized to "undertake scientific
research supportingimplementation o f nationalpolicies and international conventions
related to biodiversity conservation and sustainable development inthe DanubeDelta and
other wetlands o f conservation interest.""

34.         The projectcontributedto the regulationof the Reservethroughtraining
ofwardens andpublicity- but not as planned. The number o f wardens fell short o f the
targets set at appraisal - only 89 o fthe 152plannedbeingin-post at the end o f the
project. However, the regulatory set-up has evolved considerably with a marked shifting
o fthe regulatory burdenfrom the Reserve Authority to national and local environmental
andpolice authorities. And to facilitate this switch 54 Reserve wardens - and their boats
andequipment providedbythe project - were transferred to become Ecological Guards
under anewNational Security Authority underthe PrimeMinister's Office. The
remaining 35 wardens, now called `Rangers,' are now local reserve managers rather than
regulators: their main tasks are managingvisitors' centers, ecological monitoring and
guidingvisitors andtourists.

21. Directorate-General for Public Works and Water Management (RIZA), the Netherlands. 2002.
Vegetation o fthe Biosphere Reserve "Danube Delta." RIZA Report 2002-049, December 2002.
22. Romanian Government DecisionNo. 409/1999.

                                                            13


 35.           Independentevaluation financed by the European Unionindicates that the new
 regulatory set up, confusingto locals, i s effective inguarding access to the reserve area
 and its resources-althoughcorruption may be an issue (Box 1).

 36.           Tending to be only school leaven, all the wardens were put through induction
 and foundation courses covering reserve management and regulation. Two wardens
 participated instaff exchange programs with, and six undertook study tours of, similar
 reserves inEurope. A general Wardens' Training Manual was producedand 12 specific
 District Manuals were created taking into account specific ecosystems and issues to be
 followed ineach area. Training was also provided on-the-job, and for staff from the
 UkrainianDanubePlavni Reserve -the latter under a collaborativeagreement under
 which Romanian staff also received reciprocal training inUkraine.


 Box 1: The Public's View OfRomania'sDanubeDeltaRegulatoryBodies
            "Using boats, the Frontier Police patrolthe borders betweenRomania and the Ukraine -30km
 insidethe border and 1O k m eachside ofthe Sulina Canal. Their distinct role inconnection with natural
 resources is working to combat black market fishingand distribution at local level. A Frontier Police
 interviewee defined his role as fighting illegal fishing, illegal hunting, poaching andpollution. The Frontier
 Police are often thought to be corrupt. It is commonly said that they overlook many offences and see
 themselves as too poorlypaidto carry out their duties as intended. The Delta Police are often referredto as
 the County Police orjust the PoIice. Some intervieweesthought that the Delta Police have nothing to do
 with fishing regulation. Others thought o fthem as responsible for issuingfines to poachers. Generally, the
 Delta Police were perceived to be less involvedwith fishingpatrolthan the Frontier Police. The
 Environment Guard is a differentbody from the County Environment Inspection Agency, butboth
 were referredto as the same organisation inmany interviews, as well as beinglabelled `ecologists'. The
 County Environmental Protection Agency (known until2004 as the County Inspectorate) works for the
 MinistryofEnvironment and Water Management. Itis responsible for ensuringthat environmental
 authorisations are adheredto. The EnvironmentGuardis a kindo f `ecology department' working underthe
 iuthority ofthe National Control Authority (which also controls the Frontier Police andCustom House).
 Guardemployees are expectedto check that the Inspection Agency's authorisations are not defied in
 practice. The Guardandthe InspectionAgency bothwork to monitor pollution and damageto the Delta,
 put are sometimes involved innotingillegal fishing activities. Although the Rangers are officiallypart o f
 .he DDBRA, they are talked o f as a separate institution. Rangerspatrol and controlthe fishingareas, being
 jirectly involved inpreventingfish capture for sale on the black market. A DDBRA employee suggested
 hat the role o fthe Rangershas recently changed. H e maintained that they have become less involved in
 lirect patrol because the Frontier Police (also dubbed the Army) and the County Policehave `got thepower
 `0make decisions  ...TheDanubeDelta is better guardedthan theprison' (Romanian interview SSI 7). All
 hese regulatory bodies, especially the police and rangers, were referredto as corrupt inanumber o f
 nterviews."

 source: Bell2004 (38) Based on 51 interviews over 2001-04 with 60 people living inthe delta.



 17.         Publicawarenesswas addressedvery lateinthe projectbut appearsto be
 tffective. Supervision reports indicatethat the ReserveAuthority andthe Institute
dragged their feet on this component despite the active and effective involvement o f three
localNGOsunder the pr~ject.'~Much o fthe delay was the result o f entrenched attitudes

23. These NGOs were: ProDeltathat works throughout the Delta with village and school groups to develop
a better understandingo fthe resources, zoning and need for conservation; ECOs that works with teenage
groups on developing community involvement; and the Romanian Ornithological Society (supported by
BirdLife)that works on community involvement.

                                                      14


 andatop-down management style. However, following Bank recommendations the
 Reserve Authority contracted technical assistance from Fauna and FloralInternationalin
  1999to assist them indeveloping a public awareness strategy -the first such strategy
 developed in                  Judging from OED's observations inRomania and independent
 evaluation, this comprehensive and outcome targeted awareness strategy remains
 partially adopted.

 38.         Publicity material and signboards describing the Reserve Authority's purpose,
 strict reserve areas, maps, postcards andposters are plentifulinTulcea and inthe three
 other visitors'centers (Uzlina, Crisan (1993, Sulina (1999) and Tulcea 2000). There is a
 web site and the Tulcea visitors' center undertakes significant awareness-raising activities
 aimed at all age groups.25Starting in 1999,for example, ten local teachers were made
 aware o f the Reserve Authority's activities by BirdLifeand each one implemented a pilot
 ecologicalproject intheir school -thisprogram continues. Rangersalso visit local
 schools and distribute booklets and folders with plants and animals from the Delta.
 Special books were produced including: the Practical Handbookfor Environmental
 Education (2000), the Practical Handbookfor Environmental Education-for
 Kindergarten (2002) andthe Childrens Newspaper "Micii Ecologisti" that by 2004 had
 publishedtwo editions containing drawings, pictures, and essays produced by children.
 Andthere areperiodic events for children andteenagers: "Environment Day,"
 International Day of Water", and "The International Day of Wetlands."

 39.         Huntingremainsa threat to the Reserve even though it is regulated.To
 raise revenue for social programs the County Council has organized shoots over 77,000
 ha o f public lands withinthe economic zones o fthe Reserve.26While this i s not meant to
 affect the strictly protected areas andbuffer zones, it does inpractice. Strictly protected
 areas and their buffer zones are generally enclaves withinthe economic zones. Thus birds
 flying from one protectedareato another may have to transit aneconomic zone andrisk
 being shot -andthe Governor o f the Reserve is reportedto have said that birdnumbers
 are decreasing as a result.27In2002 Parliament passed a new HuntingLaw forbidding
huntinginnationalparks, naturereservesandstrictly protected areas butthe Danube
Delta Biosphere Reserve, because o f it was a "one-off' creationoutside the normal
national system nature reserves, i s not on the prohibited area list. The MoE is aware o f
the issue andtriedin2002 to introduce athree-year species-specific banonhuntinginthe
Reserve-because o f the emphasis ingovernment on productiverather thanprotective
land use, the ban applied only to migratory birds and lasted for four months. More
recently a national mechanism for issuing 10-year huntingcontracts against quotas set by
the MoEwas agreed but insufficient field staffpreclude effective regulation (andmost o f


24. Ministry of Water, Forests andEnvironmentalProtection. 2004. DanubeDelta BiosphereReserve
Authority -Public Awareness Strategy. 65pp.
25. DuringOED's visit to the ReserveAuthority the public awareness center's activities were as follows.
October20: agroup of25 10-yearold children from a localschool attended a video and discussionabout
the reserve and conservation; October21: a group of23 High Schoolstudents average age 16years;
October22: visiting delegationfrom the EU(Denmark, Germany, Norway andBelgium).
26. The annual income from hunting is reportedly Lei 30 billion (US$1.24 million or $16/ha).
27. PersonalCommunication.Professor Vadineau, University of Bucharest.October26,2005.

                                                       15


 these staff are low-paid salaried women with no transport). Eventhen, huntingi s not the
 only cause o f birdmortality: parts o f the Delta are crossedby redundant hightension
 lines that have yet to be removed.

 Objective 2: Ecosystemsand biodiversity was enhanced by theproject but there was a
 signijicant shortcoming-people 's livelihoods were ignored.

 40.          Protection and enhancement of the Reserve has not been universally
 approved - particularly by those people earning the livelihoods inthe Delta. Many
 people feel marginalizedby the emphasis on nature protectionand some argue that
 reduced water levels and predationby an increasing number o f birdshave further
 decreasedfish stocks. This adds to their concerns that management o fthe fisheries by the
 Reserve Authority is inequitable (paras 58-59). Research indicates that Great Cormorants
 andGreat White pelicans alone probably consume almost 9,000 tons/year comparedwith
 the official freshwater catch o f only 2,500 tons.28Giventhat Great Cormorantnumbers
 have doubled since the mid 199Os, it could be inferredthat the establishment o f the
 biosphere reserve has reduced the potentialin2003 by about 2,000 tons/year fromjust
 this one species. Thus localconcerns about adverseimpacts ofbiodiversityprotectionon
 their livelihoods seemto bejustified.

 41.         Local people also think the Reserve Authority's reed bed management
 practice was counterproductive. Reed beds cover almost a third o f the Reserve area
 andare the thirdmost important commercial resource inthe areaafter fisheries and
 agri~ulture.~' 2004, the Reserve Authority licensed sevenreed bedto private
                In
 companies for harvesting, the remainingfive beingoffered to locals on a yet to be
 determined basis. Authorized management practice, introducedby the Reserve Authority,
 does not allow annual reedbedburningandthere i s a strong view among locals (Box 2)
andsome environmentalists that this is counterproductive.            30

42.          Enhancement of the land resources, flora and fauna was more successful.
The principle contributionofthe project, inaddition to protection, was assistance to
design and manage improved water circulationto improve ecological conditions. And
improved ecological conditions were generally beneficial for biodiversity. Some o fthe
positive impacts on fish, flora and fauna populations have already beenpresented (paras
24-27). Generally positive impacts were achieved by returningagricultural and fish
polders to wetlands, reducing entry o f silt into naturally clear lakes andmodifying the
flow o f water through the DeItaafter simulating the likely effects o f interventionsusinga
hydraulic model developed through the project.

43.         O fthe planned8,050 ha ofpolder restoration, only 3,060 was restored during
the project becausedisputes over landownership o fthe agricultural polders slowed the


28. Summarized inBellop. cit. 2004 (91-95).
29. Reedbedareavaries from year-to-year.In2003 they covered 170,000 ha andreedbedproducts(straw
for thatching/export, fodder) was worth about US$1.5 million a year in2002.
30. The ECA regionstaff disputes OED's finding: "It seems highly unlikely that an unnaturalprocess of
annual burning would be essential for maintaining a naturalecosystem, so such acontentionwould haveto
be backedupby datato be credible."

                                                         16


  work. However, the restoration work continued and 7,280 ha had been completed by
  2003 and an additional 2,115 hawere under implementati~n.~'

1 Box 2: Traditionalreed bed managementhas beenabandonedand biodiversityis reduced
  Traditional methods o fwetland managementinvolvedburningthe reed inwinter to allow for more
  vigorous new growth inspring when `young' reed is cut and dried to provide animal fodder for winter. In
  most villages hay meadows are either insufficient or altogether absent, as is sufficient agricultural landto
  grow maize for fodder. Tending and harvestingthe young reed is therefore important for animal husbandry,
  even at primary subsistencelevel. There are however, what localpeople consider importantecological
 benefits to accrue from reedburning, a practice nowadaysprohibitedbythe regulations of the DDBRA:
  `Prior to 1989the water was clean andthe channels were clean.In winter and early springpeople burnt
  the reedpom the bank and thefloating reed islets (plaur). Whenfish spawned the water ways were
 clear...This is a most important thing not onlyfor fish butfor vegetationtoo' (40-year-old fisherman Mila
 23). Duringa focus group four young fishermen fi-omCrisan village becameextremely vexed over the
 question o freed burning. They signalled enthusiastic agreementto this statementby one ofthem. `Sinceit
 began the DDBRA has causedmostly harm. They do not allow the burning of reed Whenthe reed is burnt
 it regenerates thefish and birds and everythingelse. Otherwiseduring the summer the water becomes
 foul.'
 Source: Bell op. cit. 2004 (62) basedon 51interviews with 60 people.



 44.          Research on the 5,630 ha Holbina-Dunavat fishpolder clearly demonstrated
 that the eutrophication process is far more complex thanexpected andthat, while
 shallower water depths may encourage reed growth and sequestration ofphosphate, the
 changes to the ecosystem may have a number of costs for local livelihood^.^^^                   33 Thus the
 resultant restoration strategy urged discussion with all stakeholders to decide on
 acceptable trade-offs between economic and ecological benefits. Elsewhere, NGOs and
 the Institute used the project's small grants program to pilot community and local
 activities including woodlot management, medicinalherbs, handicrafts and eco-tourism.
 Outcomes and impacts ofthese activities are not available.

 45.         Ex-post monitoringby the Institute staff of the project's 3,600 hapilot
 restoration o fthe Babina and Cernovca agricultural polders demonstrate significant
 environmental andfinancial benefits (Table 8.)

 EFFICIENCY

 46.         Overall, efficiencyis rated as substantial. A formal economic rate o fretum
 was not estimated at either appraisal or completion andefficiency is rated on cost-

 31. Babinaagricultural polder 2,100 ha (1994); Cemovca agricultural polder 1,580 ha (1996); Popina fish
polder 3,600 ha (2000); and Fortunaagricultural polder 2,115 ha (2002-ongoing.)
32. Drost, H.J,. D.Bos and M.Tudor. 2002. Research For Ecological RestorationIn TheDunavat-Dranov
Region,DanubeDelta. ReportNo. 2002.188x, Lelystad. DanubeDelta Institute and the Institutefor Inland
Water Management and Waste Water Treatment (RIZA), the Netherlands.
33. The ECA Region staff question this statement: "The fact is, that the polder restoration component gave
bigbenefits (interms of increasedfishcatch, for example) to localpeople, inaddition to the environment
benefits, andthis i s documented inthe project files. Also, the ecosystemrestorationcomponent (for
example, the woodlots for fue for local people, or the small grants to develop pilots for altemative
occupations inthe Danube Delta) benefitedthe local people."

                                                           17


 effectiveness. Efforts to improvethe capacity and elevate the status ofthe Reserve
 Authority, accounting for 76 percent o fproject costs, were conducted efficiently primarily
 becauseo fthe highdegree o f coordination among the principal actors (the Reserve
 Authority, government, national and international NGOs, andRIZA) and agreement on
 well-defined objectives. The efficiency of the restoration component i s rated as high
 because successful restorationwas achieved at about halfthe estimated                        And it also
 appearsto be financially efficient basedon the results fkom Babina and Cernovca
 agricultural polders (Table 8.)



        EcologicalImprovements                          Productivity improvementsand their value

  Nutrient Removal                           Research, design and construction          Sum       100,000
         15 kgPhopsphorous/ha/year
         333 kgNitrogenhalyear               Fishproduction34 kglhalyear                0.5kg       60,000

  Sediment Retention                         ReedHarvest 1tonlhdyear                    16/ton      60,000
          11tonshalyear                      Pasture 100ha/ O S cattle/year              2/kg       10,000
  Improvedhabitat for birds and fish         Tourism 10tourist0 0 days/year             lO/day      10,000
  Improvedaesthetic value                    Total per year                                       140,000

  Water storage                            I Netannual benefits over 10 years                    +130,000

 INSTITUTIONAL       DEVELOPMENT         IMPACT

 47.         Overall, institutionaldevelopmentimpactis rated as modest. The project
 supported creationo f a technically viable Reserve Authority with enhanced legal
 authority to implement its mandate to protect and conserve biodiversity inthe Danube
 Delta. Frombeingrelatively unknown, infewer than six years the Danube Delta
 Biosphere Reserve has become internationally recognized and supported. Additionally,
 strong links have been created andmaintainedwith nationaland internationalNGOs,
pan-European organizations, bilateral donors interested inpromoting wetlands and
biodiversity andthe Ukraine Danube Plavni Reserve.

48.         The governance structure clearly separatesmanagement o fthe Reserve and
regulation from the science and conservation functions. Iti s certainly a good model for
the Ukraine's Danube Plavni Reserve Authority.

49.         However, one aspectof institutionaldevelopment,participatory
management,is ratedmodestat best.Participatorymanagement was not a specific
project objective because the EBRDgrant was supposed to cover this aspect. Iti s clear,
however, after EBRDwithdrew their support, that it became a major component o f the
Reserve Authority's Public Awareness Strategy in2000 (para 37.) Revealingly,
comments presented by the Govemor o fthe Reserve Authority to the International
School for Advanced Studies (Italy) in2004 reiterated the recommendations o f the 2000


34. At appraisal it was estimated that restoration o f 8,050 ha would cost US$0.57 million or US$70/ha. By
the end ofthe project 7,280 ha was restored at a cost ofUS0.27 millionor US$32ha.

                                                            18


  Strategy - but reported no progress.35And the failure to move towards a more inclusive
  management policy mayjeopardize the Reserve's biosphere status. Evenso, Authorities
  inbothRomaniaandUkrainehave a similar problem-aninherited communistculture
  fails to recognize that local people could help them manage the Reserve more effectively,
  and a passive acceptanceby localpeople o ftheir position (para 51.)

  50.          People living inthe Deltawere found to be more highly motivated (thanthose
  intheother EUstudy-countries) about changingthe environment for the better througha
  mix o fchanges for people andfor nature-andthis appearsto be drivenby
  environmental concerns that affect local livelihoods. One notable regulatory failing
  observed by OED is that discarded                   andwater pollutiondisfigurethe waterways.
  When Bell disaggregatedher findings she found adults, teachers and young adults all put
  general pollutionas their most significant concern. The second concern among the
 teachers and adults was illegal fishing andpoaching; young adults citing water pollution.
 Andwhile teachers andyoung adults identifiedillegal fishing, farmingandwater
 pollution as third inimportance, adults namedwater pollution. (Bell 2004, op cit (122)).

 51.          The evidence suggests that while public awareness activities are well-
 targeted, people do not feel empowered to participate in environmental
 management. In-depthinterviews and focal group discussions reported by Bell (2004 op
 cit (127)) led her to conclude: "Education seemed to be slightly more important in
 influencing the concern o f Romanianadults thanfor adults inthe other three countries.
 Experience inconnection with other people, rather thantaken insolitude seemedto be
 memorable for Romania. No Romanianadults mentionedthe wider media; famous
 personalities, participation, relaxationand solitude as important influence." And
 "Organisations were most important inRomania; this findingties inwith the evidence
 that Romanians seemedto engage inenvironmentalactionunder the guidance or
 leadership o f others" and not through their own actions. Inmost respects these attitudes
 reflect the continuance o fthe former communist ideology inwhich individuals looked to
 the state for leadership - such attitudes and are almost identicalto found inthe Ukrainian
 part o f the Delta.

 52.         The Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve i s only partially managed according
 to the principles of UNESCO's Biosphere Reserve policy -25 years after initiation
 (Table 9.) Resource management by the Reserve Authority has effectively privatizedthe
main economic activities inthe Deltaandmarginalizedlocal people who relied on its
natural reso~rces.~' the same time the Reserve Authority time i s paying little attention
                         At


35. Munteanu, Vergil. 2004. TheRole Of CommunicationAnd Public Awareness In TheIntegrated
Management Within TheDanube Delta BiosphereReserveAuthority. Journal o f Science Communication.
3(3), September 2004.
36. Mostly left by visiting Romanian fishermen, not local people.
37. The ECA Region staff disagree with OED's findings: "Before 1990 fishing and reedharvesting were
done by state companies and fishermen were just employees o f these state companies, being paid a
ridiculously low pricemg fish, which encouraged overfishing; during the 1995s      - early2000s, there were a
limited number ofprofessional licensed fishermen, and only those were allowed to fish commercially and
sell to several private collection points; recently, most o fthe Delta resources have been concessioned /
leasedto private investing companies and this, because o f better guarding o f their areas and because o f
                                        -

                                                         19


 to alternative sources o f income for the 14,295 Deltaresidents living inthe 26 settlements
 withinthe reserve, many ofthem accessible only by water or poorly-maintainedroads.

 53.          Governmentsupport for the environmentis fickle. The importance and
 resources allocated to environmental policy and management inBucharest, while fairly
 constant duringthe life o f the project, has been subsequently highly variable. Thus
 important andprogressive environmental legislation enactedup until2003 has not been
 monitoredand enforced because o f limitedcapacity at the central and local levels (e.g.
 see para 37). After the Ministry of Water, Forests and Environmental Protectionhad its
 forest department transferred to the Ministryo f Agriculture it was completely absorbed as
 a department within the Ministryo f Agriculture andForests inJune 2003. And in
 February 2004 it reemerged as the Ministryo f Environment and Water but with the loss
 o f many key staff and a reducedbudget. Meanwhile its senior staff spent most o f their
 time changing the legal framework to give them legitimacy and little practical work was
 done. Giventhat mucho f the funding for environmental management and improvement
 i s from multiple external sources, balancingcompeting demands and ensuring sector
 coordination i s now a major issue.

 Table9: UNESCO's principlesofBiospheremanagementare only partiallyaddressed
        -
   Definition: A biospherereserve is a unique conceptwhich includes one or moreprotected areas and
   surrounding lands that are managedto combine both conservationandsustainable use of natural
   resources.

                                     Principles                                           Current Status
   Eachbiosphere reserve conservesexamples o f characteristic ecosystemso f one                 Yes
   o fthe world's naturalregions, managed for their protection and study.
   Itis aregional centre for monitoring, research, education andtraining on                     Yes
  natural and managedecosystems.
  It is a landandor coastaUmarineareainwhich people are an integral                  No, people are missing
  component, and which is managedfor objectives ranging from complete
  protectionto intensive yet sustainableproduction.

  It is aplace where government decision makers, scientists, managersand local         N ~local are
                                                                                             , people
  people cooperate indeveloping a model programfor managing land and water                    missing
  to meet human needs while conserving natural processesand biological
  resources.

  Finally, each biosphere reserve is a symbol o f voluntary cooperation to           Voluntary cooperation
  conserve anduse resources for the well beingo fpeople everywhere.                    i s limitedto NGOs



54.           Owing to this hiatus a memorandumo f understanding with the Nordic
Investment Bank (NIB) for a 84 millionloanto support sustainable development o fthe
Deltaremains stalled as the bank has no national interlocutor. This loanwas extremely
important for the future o f the reserve as it included5 millionfor improvedmonitoring
systems, 60.6 million for public utilities, transport and communicationsto improve the



more strict reportingrequirements, have reducedpouching considerably. The reportedcomplaints during
interviews can be infact interpreted as a complaint for reduced possibilities o fpouching."

                                                  20


 quality o f life o f Deltaresidents, 5 millionto develop alternative economic activities
 focusing on tourism, and13.3 million for further ecosystem restoration.

 SUSTAIN ABILITY

 55.         Sustainability is rated as likely despite institutional weaknesses. Exogenous
 factors give the Reserve highinternational visibility and the requirements for EU
 accessions and subsequent support almost guarantee its sustainability.

 56.        The Reserve Authority has enlargedand legally securedthe integrity o fthe
 biosphere reserve. Budget support from the Ministryo f Environment appears assured-
 even ifless than requirements. Income generatedwithin the reserve from licensing, reed
 cutting, fishery leases andtourism fills some o f the gap between the central budget
 contributionandtotal runningcosts.

 57.        The DanubeDeltaNational Institute i s an autonomous body able to set its own
 establishment and remuneration system. Ithas established an internationalreputation and
 is recognized as a European Centre for Excellence for Deltas and Wetlands and the
National Reference Center infisheries and land resource management. Ithas won
national awards: in2000 for ecological restoration and the hydraulic modelingo fthe
DanubeDelta andits contributionto the Lower Danube GreenCorridor Project.
Ecologicalrestorationactivities also won it the 1995 European Community Eurosite
Award and a 1996 WWF Merit award. As a result it attracts considerable external
fundingfor its researchactivities, amountingto 40 percent o f its total budget,that also
helps to cross-subsidize its DanubeDeltawork program. Importantly, it has continued to
secure EUFramework Programme V and VI contracts and support for wetlands research,
andPHAREYEuropean Commissionsupport for pilotprojects. The Institutealso
undertookthe GIS work for the follow-on GEF environmentalprogram inRomaniaand
continues its partnership with research institutes inFrance, Germany, Great Britain and
the Netherlands.

58.         Local people feel strongly that Reserve Authority puts economic activities
above environmentalwork. Interviews with the Authority's governor and managers, and
their independent assessment o fthe relative importance o f all activities inthe Delta
(Table 6) indicate that this i s not true. There are insufficient hnds to cover all
environmentalmanagement needs, andmany o fthe economic activities sponsored or
controlled by the Reserve Authority appear to act against the locals' interests. Thus, for
example, the leases secured by the reed collecting companies give them command over a
traditionally important natural resource o f the Delta, excluding locals from a traditional
resource. The companies are also influential inlocalpolitics because they have valuable
contracts for internationalreedsales. Their employees are not usually residents o f the
Delta, but are 'poor people ... people with no homes ... from all other counties' (Bell
(37)). Under these new arrangements, village mayors authorize a restrictedand taxed
personal allowance o f reeds, cut for their own use (for roofing; animal houses, etc.).
Locals are barred from selling reeds as the companies holdthe monopoly.

59.         Similarly, the Reserve Authority's administration o f fishery leases, started in
2001, is highly controversial because it is believedto favor large privatefishing

                                                         21


 companies over individual fishermen. Under their leases all sales must be handledby the
 13 new fishing companies and individual fishermen or associations can no longer buy
 and sell fish dire~tly.~'Locals are allowed to fishfor personal consumption up to 3 kga
 day for each o f the 4,000 Delta families. To secure their leases, private companies
 employ their own guards, further complicating the regulatory system. Because o ftheir
 sense o f injustice over the loss o f rights, Delta fishermen have heldpublic demonstrations
 andchallenged the fishery leasingprocess inthe courts. As aresult, the fisheries leasing
 process remains incomplete.

 60.         Most Deltapeople look to tourism as the only alternative source of income. To
 openbedandbreakfast accommodation-the                   most popular option for foreigntourists
 who want an `at home' experience-they               have to be licensed by the Reserve Authority.
 Even here there are problems, not least, the poor infrastructure inthe Delta- 19 o fthe 26
 villages lack safe water supplies, good sanitation and garbage disposal facilities, andthey
 take water directly from the river or canals. Indeed, the Reserve Authority does not seen
to regardtourism to be relevant to their management planningfor the Delta, giving low
priority to tourism andtransport (Table 10). Even so, they expect the number of tourist-
days to increase from the current 40,000 a year as they see the potential to be about one
million a year.


Table 10: Revealedpreferencesof the ReserveAuthority's management
                             Support to the
                                 .-                   Number of          Number of      Annual Turnover
          Sector                 Reserve              Companies          employees          US$ million
                                Authority

  EcologicalRestoration             +5                     1                  80               $0.10

  Fisheries                         +4                    130               1,900              $7.30

  Services                          +4                    80                 160               $0.50

  Agriculture                       +3                    28                1,800              $5,90
  Reed Harvesting                   +2                    4                 400                $1.50

  Hunting                           +2                    2                   30               $0.50

  Forestry                          +2                    2                   60               $0.10

  Industry                          +2                    9                  100               $0.50
 Local government                  +2                    169                415                $0.50
  Tourism& recreation              +I                    33                 200                $1.00
 Energy & heating                   -1                    1                  20                $0.10

 Transport                          -4                   73                 250                $1.50

                   Totals                                532               5,415               $19.50
Source: UNESCO MAB Task Force. 2002. The Reserve Authority's summarized answers to the Task
Force's Questionnaire for Biosphere Managers and Coordinators.


38. The fishing leases were publicly auctioned. Each lease runs for 10years with an option for a 5-year
extension. Local fisherman claim they could not compete giventhe relatively large-scale o fthe exercise
compared with their experience, and their lack o f fimds and business inexperience.

                                                       22


 BANKPERFORMANCE

  61.         Overall Bankperformance is rated as satisfactorywith some
  shortcomings. The project was thoroughly preparedandthe project designprovidedthe
 basis for a coherent approach to biodiversity conservation inthe region. Supervisionwas
 very effective and all Romanianofficials and Reserve staff were very complimentary
 about the quality, knowledge, and experience o f Bank staff, their understandingo f local
 issues andproblems, and their ability to work at the local, national, and international
 levels andto bringNGOs, government, and other donors to help develop the Reserve
 Authority. There were two shortcomings. First, the Bank could have been more effective
 insecuring ReserveAuthority compliance withbiosphere principlesafter EBRD
 withdrawal. The failure to assess the importance o f access to the Delta's natural
 resources by local people was a major design shortcoming at appraisal and at mid-term
 review after EBRDhadwithdrawn. Second, most government andNGO officials felt that
 the Bankplacedtoo muchreliance on foreign experts to solve Romania's problems,
 particularly at the beginningo f the project. Local experts expressed some resentment that
 Bank staffunder-estimated Romania's sizeable skillbaseandexisting institution^.^^

 BORROWER        PERFORMANCE

 62.         Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory butwith some reservations.
 The Reserve Authority and Institute staffperformedexceedingly well duringproject
 preparationand implementation. This wealth o f expertise, enabled by the project funding,
 ledto the productiono f scientific work, research, and conservation to international
 standards. Reserve Authority and Institute staffhave actively engaged ininternational
 exchange andcooperation to enhance their skills andthe management o fthe Reserve.

 63.         The reservation i s that all the management principles o f a biosphere reserve are
 not yet inplace. NIB fundingto assist this i s being heldinlimbo because o f ambivalent
 views ingovernment onthe utility o f environmentalprotection giventheir other pressing
 development concerns. And within the Reserve Authority, there seems to be an
 unwillingness to embark on a comprehensive and cross-sectoral approach to rural
 development that includes productive working partnerships with communities and
participatory management o fthe Reserve.




39. The origin of Biosphere Reservesgoes back to the "Biosphere Conference" organized by UNESCO in
 1968,the fxst intergovernmental conference to seek to reconcile the conservation anduse o fnatural
resources, thereby foreshadowing the present-day notion o fsustainabledevelopment. The early foundations
o fthe Biosphere ReserveConcept derived from this conference. The aim was to establish terrestrial and
coastal areas representing the main ecosystems ofthe planet inwhich genetic resourceswould be protected,
andwhere researchon ecosystemsas well as monitoring andtraining work could be carried out for an
intergovernmental program called for bythe Conference. This "Manandthe Biosphere" (M4B) Program
was officially launched by UNESCO in 1970. One o fthe M A B projects consisted inestablishing a
coordinated world network o fnew protected areas, to be designatedas "Biosphere Reserves", inreference
to the program itself.

                                                          23


 4.        Findingsand Lessons

 64.           The objective o fthe project to establish a viable biosphere reserve was
 substantially established butwith some shortcomings, the main one beingvery modest
 progress on developing stakeholder participation inthe management and economic
 activities o fthe Reserve.

 65.           Participationo f stakeholders inproject design and implementation was a new
 practice inthe early 1990s whenthis project was beingdesigned and it took several years
 to understand what works best. Comprehensive evaluation o fparticipatory experience
 only started to emerge in 1997 following a number of studies by the Bank, GEF and
 OED's thematic study Participation ProcessReview (2001.)40 Morerecently,
 UNDPEEFproduced guidelines to improvethe design of small business development
 strategies inbiodiversity projects, recognizingthat sustaining benefit streams for local
 stakeholders i s a key development ~hallenge.~`           Many ofthe findings reportedresonate
 withthe lessonsderivedfrom this evaluation. These are to buildparticipationas soon as
 possible and recognize that significant project resources may needed for local capacity
 building;useneutralparties to engender local participation; seek ways to increase income
potentialfor localpeople from ecosystems targeted for conservation; provide alternatives
to biodiversity-damagingactivities; and generate sufficient income at the boundary o f
protected areas to reduce encroachment.

66.           GEF grant fundingplayeda pivotalrole is helpingthe Reservebuildcapacity
andthe skills, knowledge andentrepreneurial spirit created subsequently leveraged
considerable external contracts and fundingthat underpins longer-term sustainability.
From a national perspective there will be an increasing demandfor GEF grants even after
EUaccession, not only to increase local capacity butto improve the envir~nment.~~                      While
seemingly contradictory-surely EUfunding will eliminate the need for GEF grants?-it
i s not. The reason is that all EU environmental support will require a matching Romanian
25 percent contribution, sums the government would have great difficulty inraising.
There are several ways around this dilemma. One being to increase service delivery
tariffs while increasing the efficiency o f Romanianutilities, andthus generate the
matching fundinglocally. The GEF andthe Bank could help with grants andloans to

40. The World Bank. 1997.A Review o f Participationinthe World Bank's GEF Portfolio. Environmental
DepartmentDissemination Notes. No.52. March 1997.
The World Bank. 2002. Biological Resource Management-IntegratingBiodiversity Concerns inRural
Development Projects and Programs. Robin Grimble andMartynLaidlaw. Environment Department
Papers. PaperNo. 85. January 2002.
The World Bank.2004. ParticipatoryConservation for ProtectedAreas -An Annotated Bibliography of
SelectedSources ( 1 996-2001). Nancy Diamond, Elisabeth Nkrumah andAlan Isaac. Environment
Department Papers. PaperNo. 95. January 2004.
41. UNDP/GEF. 2003. Local Business for Biodiversity Conservation. Andrew Bovanick andAjay Gupta
(Authors). August 2003.
42. The total cost ofmeetingEUenvironmental directives is estimated to costs 22 billion phasedover the
period2007-22, or about 1.5 billion a year andthree-quarters o fthe fundingcould bethrough EUgrants
subject to a limit of4 percent o fRomanian GDP. This includes 9 billion for wastewater treatment, 5.6
billion for water supplies, 2.7 billion for solid waste treatment/disposal and 2.4 billion to reduce air
pollution.

                                                       24


 upgrade utility performance and assist building the considerable capacity to manage and
 regulate the utilities efficiently. Current estimate are that about 200 million (or US$260
 million) a year would be required.43

 67.         Itwas found that the whole range of GEF activitiesimplementedby several
 different international agencies inRomanialacked a country focus. Inpart this was due to
 the MoE's weak ability to coordinate the activities o f the internationalagencies each o f
 whom hadtheir own development agenda and ways o f doing business. Thus an
 opportunity to move towards a mores coherent country-focused approach was missed.

 LESSONS

 68.         Experience withthis project confirms a number o f OED lessons:

     Biodiversity conservation cannot be carried out inisolation. It has to be integrated
     withinthe economic interests of localandregional communities. Resentment is
     created when financing o f nature conservation appears to have preference over m e t
     local needs, be it employment or delivery o f basic services. Failureto integrate local
     interests inthe conservation andmanagement strategy o f a biosphere reserve can
     endanger its longer-term ~ustainability.~~

     Conservation areas will be sustainable only ifthere i s good management and
     sufficient funding. GEF project designers must help establish sound management and
     governance arrangements that include local stakeholders andpromote income-
     generating activities. This i s particularly important inbiosphere reserves where
     people are as important as the flora and fauna beingprotected.

     When establishing biodiversity reserves, facilitate networkingo fthe reserve staff
     withthe national and international NGOsandpromoterecognitionby international


43. The ECA Region staff made the following comment: "The report also states that the Reserve Authority
does not devote sufficient attentionlresources to improving infrastructure andtransport to promote tourism,
which locals see as their main economic opportunity. This, again, is not sufficiently documented. The Bank
has followed up with two projects which include DanubeDeltaas well - the Rural Development Project
(which meant ruralroads andwater supply) andthe Social Development Fund(within which several
community driven sub-projects were financed inthe Delta). The EU-financed SAPARD programhas also
financed several both public and private developments inthe Delta."
44. On review ofthis OEDreport the CEF Office ofMonitoring and Evaluation madethe following
observation: "Maybe a more interesting recommendation could have been that projects with these
[biosphere conservation] objectives should be phasedor sequential whereby a focus on improving PA
managementand buildingcapacity takes center stage at first (which this project seems to have done very
well) whiIe on a paralleltrack andtowards the midto endo fthe first phase, a project would conduct
comprehensive studies to analyze the economic opportunities that the BR or PA managementauthority
could promote inaparticipatory way. [This] would place the more difficult tasks o f "local economic
development" in this category o fmost challenging tasks inconservation projects. Inaddition, there would
be some questions about the role ofthe GEF insupporting the local economic development since our role is
to fmance the incremental cost ofto generateglobal benefits. Furthermore, it also appears that this project
only took on the "income-generating activities" when EBRD left the project so it is hardto totally fault
themfor not deliveringonthis aspect ofthe project as it was not parto fthe original design." Rob van den
Berg. May 27,2005.

                                          25


conventions. The benefits are two-fold. First, it provides a conduit for research
funding. Second, it creates a supportive network.

GEF shouldmovetowards a country-focused strategic approach to complement its
thematically-driven development framework. By doing so GEF would develop
synergy from a more coherent policy framework, thus improving effectiveness and
reducing transaction costs for Romania.


                                                       27                                        Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

ROMANIA           DANUBE      DELTA     BIODIVERSITYPROJECT                (TF-28614 & 28660)


                                                   Appraisal           Actual or          Actual as % of
                                                   estimate         currentestimate      appraisalestimate
Total project costs                                  4.8                 4.5                    94
Loan amount                                          4.5                 4.3                    93
Cofinancing                                           0                    0
Cancellation                                                             0.07                   1.5
The difference between the appraisedandactual loanamount is dueto SDRdevaluation.




CumulativeEstimatedand Actual Disbursements
                              FY95       FY96      FY97         FY98         FY99        FYOO       FYOI
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     1.6         2.6       3.7           4.2         4.5        4.5          4.5
Actual (US$M)                 0.3         1.3       2.0           3.4         4.0        4.3          4.3
Actual as % of appraisal       18         50        54            80          88          95          95
Date of final disbursement:  November 3. 2000




                                                          Original                        Actual
PCD                                                                                      9l2011993
Appraisal                                                                                912611993
Board approval                                                                           812611994
Effectiveness                                            9/25/1994                       210611995
Closing date                                             6/30/2000                       6130/2000




Stage of Project Cycle                                            ActuallLatest Estimate
                                                    No. Staff weeks                     US$ (`000)
   IdentificationlPreparation                       41.4                                  710.0
  AppraisaWNegotiation                              58.8                                  147.7
   Supervision                                      87.1                                  231.1
   ICR
  Total                                                                                   488.8

                                                     28                                     Annex A


Mission Data
                             No of Person           Specializations          Implementation Development
                                                                               Progress      Objective


  IdentificationlPreparation
                                      7   NaturalResources Economist              S        S
                                      7   BiodiversitySpecialist                  S        S
                                      7   EnvironmentalSpecialist                 S        S
                                      7   FinancialAnalyst                        S        S
                                      1   Water Management Specialist             S        S
                                      7   Ecologist                               S        S


 AppraisallNegotiation
                                     2    Natural Resources Economist             S        S
                                     7    EnvironmentalSpecialist                 S        S
                                     7    BiodiversitySpecialist                  S        S
                                     7    Water Management Specialist             S        S
                                     I    Procurement\FinanciaI                   S        S
                                          Management Specialist
                                     7    RegionalProcurementAdvisor              S        S
                                     7    Project Cost Specialist                 S        S

 Supervision
                                     4    Economists                              S        S
                                      7   BiodiversitySpecialist                  S        S
                                     2    EnvironmentalSpecialist                 S        S
                                     2    FinancialManagement Specialist          S        S
                                     3    ProcurementSpecialist                   S        S
                                      7   PublicAffairs Officer                   S        S
                                     7   Water Management Specialist              S        S

 ICR
                                    2     BiodiversitySpecialists                 S        S
                                     7    Economist                               S        S
                                    7     PublicAffairs Officer                   S        S



Other ProjectData
BorrowerlExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON  OPERATIONS
Operation                                           Credit no.        Amount             Boarddate
                                                                    (US$ million)


None

                                                2850'                           2900'                              2910'                                   2920'                                         2930'                                             2940'

                                                                                                                                                                     U K R A I N E
                                                                                                                                              CHILIA
                                                                                                                                               (Kiliya)




                                                                   Bogata    L. Catlapug                                                                                                     1    CHILIA                               VILCOV
                                                                                               Cislita                                                CHILIA                                                                           (Vilkovo)
                                                                                                                                                      VECHE                                                BRANCH
                                                    Sofian                                                                                                                                                    2  Periprava
                                                                                                                                               CHILIEI CIMPUL
                                 Broasca
                                                                                                                                                                                             ROSCA-
             Largeanca                                                                                                                                                                         G                 G
                                                  ISMAIL                                                          Tatanir                                                                  BUHAIOVA
                                                                                                                                                                                           e40%              e40%
                                                             Nekrasovska
                      Matrosca                                  Veche                                                                                                            G                       G           GRINDUL40%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LETEAG
              4520'                                                                                                                                                   e   40%                       e40%                                                                                                 4520'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LETEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e

                                                                                                                                                                                                 L.Merhei
            L. Cuhurlui                                                      Pardina                                                                                        L.                                     C.A. Rosetti
                                                                                                                                                                     Matita




                                                                                        NEBUNU                                                                                                         RADUCU
                                                                                                                                  Mila 23                                                                    e40%




                                                                                                               L.
                                                                                                     5      Furtuna


                TO ROTUNDA
                    NATURE
                    RESERVE                                                                                              BRANCH
              4510'                                                                       SULINA          Gorgova                                                                        Crisan                                                               SULINA                                     4510'
                                                                                                                           L.
                                         TULCEA                                                                         Gorgova                                    4

                                                                  Nufaru
                                                                                                                                                                       CARAORMAN
                                                                                                                                         L. Isac                                 GRINDUL                                     VATAFU-
                                                            DEALURILE                                                                                                                                                    LUNGULET
                                                                                                                                                                                                              L.
                            Cataloi                                          Bestepe                                                     L. Uzlina                                                         Lumina
                                                                            TULCEI                                                                                                               Caraorman                                %
                                                                                                                                     8                                                                                                                        Rosule
                                                                                                                                                                                         7                 L.
                                                       Agighiol                                                                                                                                           Puiu                        L. Rosu
                              Mihail                                        Valea                         Murighiol                                                 CARAORMAN
                              Kogalniceanu                                  Nucarilor
                                                                                              Colina
                      Lastuni                                               Iazurile                                   SARATURI-
                                                                                                                                                                                            40%
                                                                                        Sarinasuf               PlopulMURIGHIOL       Dunavat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4500'
              4500'               Rindunica                                                                                                                        EVENCIUC
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ivancea
                                                  Sabangia
                                                                                    I. Popina                                                                                                                                        GRINDUL
                               Zebil                                                                                                                                                                                                  SARATURILE
                                                                           POPINA
                                           Sarichioi                                                                                                                                                      ST.GHEORGHE

                                  L.                            6                                                                                                                                                                 BRAN
                           Babadag                                                                                                                                                                                                     CH
                                                                        L. Razim                                                                                                                                                                 Sfintu Gheorghe
                          BABADAG                                                                         3                                                          CRASNICOL
                                                                                                              Holbina        L.                                                                                                 G
                                                  Enisala                                        Holbina          II       Dranov                                                                     40%                 40%
                                                                                                     I                                                                                               e                e

                                        Visterna                                                                                                        GRINDUL
                                                                                                                                                                   G                  SAHALIN-ZATOANE
                                                                                                                                                                                               G                 G                          G

                                                                                                                                                               e40%                        e40%              e40%                       e40%
              4450'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4450'

                                                                                                                                                       G                         G                       G                      G
                                      PODISUL                                                                                                  e  40%                  e   40%                       e40%     Clotica e 40%                       e40%

                                                    Salcioara
                                  BABADAGULUI                                                                                                 Perisor                                                                                       G

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e40%

                                                                                                                    Periteasca
                  Ceamurlia                                                 CAPUL                                 G
                    de Jos                     Jurilovca                                                       40%
                                                                         DOLOSMAN                             e
                                    Lunca
                                                                                                        PERITEASCA-
                                                                                                          G
                                                                                     4                   BISERICUTA
                                                                                                      e40%
                Baia                             L. Golovita                                                                                                                                                                            0          2           4           6            8            10 Miles
                                                                                                 G

                                                                                           Gura-Portitei
                                                                                             e40%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0      2      4      6       8      10 Kilometers
                                                                        G

              4440'                          L. Zmeica                                                                                 ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                           4440'
                                                                  GRINDUL
                                                                    e40%

                    Mihai                                  LUPILORLUPILOR
                   Viteazu                                      G                                            GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
                                                            e40%
               Sinoie
                                                 GRINDUL                     La Periboina            ROMANIA DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
                                                          L. Sinoie                                                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                            PROJECT AREAS:                                                              NATURE RESERVES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2940'
              Istria                                                                                       1   BABINA                                                                   BUFFER AREAS

                                                                                                           2   CHERNOVCA                                                                SPECIAL USE POLDERS:
                                           ISTRIA-                  GRINDUL
                                                                     40                                                                                                                                                                  POLAND
                                           SINOIE                   e                                      3   HOLBINA I & HOLBINA II                                                      Agricultural                                                                             UKRAINE
                                                                     CHITUC
                                                                G                                          4   PARTIAL CLOSURE OF CARAORMAN CANAL                                          Fish                                      SLOVAK REP.

                                   SAELE  e                  40%
                                                                                                           5   PROTECTION OF LAKE FURTUNA BY                                               Forestry                                                                                         MOLDOVA
                                                                                                               CLOSURE OF CRINIALA CANAL

                                                                                                               PROTECTION OF FINGERLINGS FROM                                           MAIN SETTLEMENTS
                                                    CHITUCChituc                                           6
                                                                                                               LAKE RAZIM IRRIGATION INTAKE                                                                                            HUNGARY
                                                                                                                                                                                        VILLAGES/FISH STATIONS                                                     ROMANIA
                            GRINDUL                                                                        7   RUST REMOVAL AT CARAORMAN                                                                                                                                                                     Area
                                                                                                                                                                                        CANALS                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                           8   REED RESTORATION RESEARCH AT UZLINA                                                                                                                                                           Map
                                         GRINDUL                                                                                                                                        RIVERS                                      CROATIA

JANUARY                   Vadu                 Cherhana                                                                                                                                 MARSHY AREAS                                                                   BUCHAREST                                  IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Black
                                                                                                                                                                                        SANDY FOREST                                BOSNIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AND        FED. REP.                                                  Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HERZEGOVINA    OF                                                                 25411
       1994                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              YUGOSLAVIA                    BULGARIA
                                                  2850'                            2900'

