Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028660 RO
Global Environment Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement
(Danube Delta Biodiversity Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated August 31, 1994
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028660 RO
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 31, 1994, between ROMANIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee (the Trustee) 
of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the 
Global Environment Trust Fund (GET).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
(B)
certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided resources by 
way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed, 
to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in accordance 
with, provisions of the Resolution;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resolution; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
     (ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
    (iii)
Section 3.01;
     (iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
     (vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
    (vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
   (viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
     (ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Articles XI and XII.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
     (ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
    (iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
     (iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant;
     (vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account; and
    (vii)
a new sub-paragraph shall be added after sub-paragraph (j) in 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "An 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which further 
disbursement under the grant would exceed the resources available 
for disbursement from the GET."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  3
(a)
"MWFEP" means the Recipient's Ministry of Waters, Forests and 
Environmental Protection, or any successor thereof;
(b)
"DDBRA" means the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Administration of MWFEP;
(c)
"DDI" means the Danube Delta Institute of MWFEP; and
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Trustee on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachments. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose of the 
Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices and with due regard to ecological 
and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
Page  4
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
     (ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GET Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection of 
the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Waters, Forests and
  Environmental Protection
Bd. Libertatii 12
Bucharest - 5
Romania
Telex:
11248
Page  5
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
    INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
    Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Eugen Tarhon
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
   Amount of the
GET Grant Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Goods            1,240,000
100% of foreign 
 expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 90%
of local ex- 
penditures for
other items
procured locally
(2)
Civil works
622,000
90%
Page  6
(3)
Consultants'
760,000
100%
services and
training
(4)
Operating costs
277,000
80%
(5)
Unallocated
201,000
TOTAL
    3,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means operational and maintenance costs of 
equipment purchased under the Project and electric power for operating the sturgeon 
hatchery.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to protect and enhance the ecosystems and 
biodiversity of the Danube Delta within Romania.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such an objective:
Part A:
Strengthening the institutional and operational capabilities of the Ecological 
Warden's Department within DDBRA to improve its work in support of nature protection, 
nature surveys and interpretation, and public awareness, including the provision 
therefor of technical assistance, staff training, staff housing, office facilities, 
park-related infrastructure, horses, uniforms, and equipment, vehicles, boats and a 
houseboat.
Part B:
Development and carrying out of a monitoring program, through improved 
population species inventories, ecosystems surveys, hydrological monitoring, and 
development of an integrated database using a geographical information system, to 
provide the basis for development of resource management plans, including the 
provision therefore of technical assistance, staff training, vehicles, boats and 
equipment.
Part C:
Carrying out of a pilot program of up to 60,000 ha for polder restoration to 
natural condition and of an applied research program for wetland reed restoration, 
including the provision therefor of technical assistance, training, civil works and 
equipment.
Part D:
Carrying out of a program for ecosystems restoration com- prising: (1) 
eutrophication flow reduction into lakes, establishment of village woodlots, willow 
Page  7
planting, pilot fingerling protection, landscape enhancements, and studies followed by 
implementation if appropriate of a sturgeon propagation program, including the 
provision therefor of civil works, training, technical assistance, and goods; and (2) 
establishment and operation of a small grants research fund for the financing of 
applied research in better ecosystem and land zoning management.
Part E:
Carrying out of a program to increase public awareness of, and community and 
local non-governmental organizations involvement in, ecological protection, including 
the provision therefor of technical assistance, staff training, equipment and 
materials, and a visitor's center, district exhibition centers and field observation 
posts.
Part F:
Developing and implementing arrangements for: (1) continued cooperation and data 
exchanges with the authorities within Ukraine involved in the protection and 
enhancement of ecosystems and biodiversity of the Danube Delta; (2) participation in 
regional initiatives and advisory groups and workshops for the protection and 
enhancement of the Black Sea ecosystems and biodiversity; and (3) strengthening the 
capacity of the DDBRA and DDI in procurement, financial management and program 
coordination.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to by completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Recipient 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes 
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Recipient shall use bidding documents based on other international 
recognized standards forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Contracts for goods, including equipment, vehicles and boats, estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $20,000 or more each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least 
Page  8
three countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Trustee.
2.
Contracts for goods, including vehicles and boats, estimated to cost below the 
equivalent of $20,000 each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$700,000, may be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Trustee.
3.
Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are proprietary, estimated to cost up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be awarded after 
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Trustee.
4.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more per contract up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $600,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
5.
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent to $340,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from a 
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
6.
Civil works comprising willow planting, and protection of fingerlings estimated 
to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $160,000, may be 
procured by force account or through direct negotiations with the contractors thereof, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and civil works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the making of the 
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GTF Grant Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Trustee in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For 
complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Trustee, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Trustee, the Recipient 
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
Page  9
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Trustee review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Trustee or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall carry out the Project through DDBRA and DDI, under the 
overall coordination and policy guidance of MWFEP, in accordance with arrangements 
agreed with the Trustee including those referred to in this Schedule.
2.
The Recipient shall: (a) employ consultants, whose quali- fication and terms of 
reference shall be satisfactory to the Trustee, in order to assist in the carrying out 
of the Project; (b) continue recruitment of at least 20 additional DDBRA wardens each 
year, and recruit by March 31, 1995, a training specialist, a natural resources 
assessment specialist and a public awareness specialist as staff members of DDBRA; (c) 
maintain an implementation unit, composed of representatives of MWFEP, DDBRA and DDI 
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, to be responsible for 
Project execution; (d) maintain a research grants committee, with membership, staff 
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, to review and approve, in 
accordance with guidelines agreed with the Trustee, research proposals for financing 
under Part D (2) of the Project; and (e) maintain an advisory committee, composed of 
Senior DDBRA and DDI staff, a senior member of MWFEP and senior protected area 
management specialists of MWFEP, qualified protected-areas management specialists and 
a qualified expert in wetland management, and with staff and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Trustee, to meet and review at least every six months the progress 
of Project execution and to recommend measures to sustain and forward such progress.
3.
The Recipient shall carry out the training programs under the Project in 
accordance with terms of reference and time-schedules satisfactory to the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Page  10
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the GET Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
