Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20228
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CREDIT 26620; 03400)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 16.4 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND RANGELANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
March 29, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchaange Rate Effective CFAF 480 (on average))
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
Average in CFAF per US dollar
1995  484
1996  513
1997  606
1998  594
1999  633
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
CFAF I = US$ 0.002
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 480 (on average)
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   International Development Association
PIU   Project Implementation Unit
SOE   Statement of Expenditures
MOF   Ministry of Finance
ACCB   Association Centrafricaine des Commercants en B1etail (CAR Association of Livestock
Traders)
ACDA   Agence Centrafricaine de Developpement Agricole (CAR Agricultural Development
Agency)
AEA   Association d'Eleveurs et d'Agriculteurs (Herders and farmers association)
ANBC   Association Nationale des Bouchers Centrafricains (National Association of CAR Butchers)
ANDE   Agence Nationale pour le Developpement de l'Elevage (National Livestock Development
Agency)
CIC   Comite Interprofessionnel de Coordination (Interprofessional Coordination Committee)
CICM    Centre International de Credit Mutuel (International Mutual Credit Center)
DAM    Departement d'Animation Mutualiste (FNEC) (Grassroots Capacity Development
Department)
DPA   Direction de la Production Animale (ANDE) (Animal Production Directorate)
DSA   Direction Sante Animale (ANDE) (Animal Health Directorate)
FDE   Fonds de Developpement de l'Eievage (Livestock Development Fund)
FELGIP   Federation Locale de Groupements d'lnteret Pastoraux (GIP) (Local Federation of Herding
Interest Groups)
FIDE   Fonds Interprofessionnel de Developpement de I'Elevage (Interprofessional Livestock
Development Fund)
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Serge Michailof
Sector Manager/Director:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Noel Chabeuf



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
FIDE   Fonds Interprofessionnel de Developpement de l'Elevage (Interprofessional Livestock
Development Fund)
FNEC   Federation Nationale des Eleveurs Centrafricains (National Federation of Central African
Herders)
GIAP   Groupement d'Interet Agro-pastoral (Mixed Farming Interest Group)
GIP   Groupement d'Interet Pastoral (Grazing Interest Group)
ICRA   Institut Centrafricain de Recherche Agronomique (Central African Agricultural Research
Center)
MAE   Ministere de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage (Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
MEF   Ministere des Eaux, Forets, Chasse, P8che et Tourisme, Charg6 de l'Environnement
(Ministry of Water, Forestry, Hunting, Fishing, and Tourism, in charge of the Environment)
NLP   National Livestock Project
PAIA   Projet d'Assistance aux Institutions Agricoles (Agricultural Institutions Support Project)
PARC    Pan African Rinderpest Campaign
PARN   Projet d'Amenagement des Ressources Naturelles (Natural Resources Management Project)
PETF   Programme d'Execution Technique et Financiere (Technical and Financial Implementation
Program)
PNDE    Projet National de Developpement de l'Elevage (National Livestock Development Project)
UCF   Unite de Coordination Technique et Financiere (Technical and Financial Coordination Unit)
ZAGROP   Zone d'Actions Agro-Pastorales (Agro-Pastoral Action Area)
ZIC   Zone d'Interet Cynegetique (Wildlife Management Area)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                14
10. Additional Information                                                         16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              24






Project ID: P000474                                      Project Name: NAT. LIVESTOCK DEV.
Team Leader: Noel Rene Chabeuf                           TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 27, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: NAT. LIVESTOCK DEV.                              LIC Number: 26620; 03400
Country/Department: CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                            Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector. AL - Livestock; TR - Rural Roads
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/10/92                                Effective: 04/13/95           04/13/95
Appraisal:  11/05/93                                 MTR: 12/31/97              12/31/96
Approval:  12/01/94                                Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MAE
Other Partners: IFAD, EU, France, FNEC
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Serge Michailof                           Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                        Theodore Nkodo
Team Leader at ICR:   Noel Chabeuf                             Noel Chabeuf
ICR Primary Author:   Noel Chabeuf
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, U`N=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Executive Summary
Project objectives (Part 3). The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the productivity of the
Borrower's livestock sector and further its integration into the Borrower's economy; (b) improve the
standards of living of the herder population through increased diversification of their sources of income; (c)
strengthen the livestock sector's professional organizations through democratization of their operations and
decentralization of the decisionmaking process; and (d) promote adequate and sustainable management of
natural resources.



Project design resulted from a thorough and systematic preparation based on excellent collaboration among
the Bank, the Borrower, other Donors and the beneficiaries. It relied on lessons learned from two previous
livestock projects in CAR. However, the project concept, which reflected the broad Government strategy at
the time of identification and preparation (1992), no longer suited the Government that had come to power
just before negotiations (1994) and remained in place until the closing of the project.
Achievement of objectives and outputs (Part 4). Riots and the looting of Project facilities during the first
two years of project implementation resulted in the destruction and loss of technical and financial
information available at the level of implementing agencies. Insecurity and political instability thereafter
prevented continuation of implementation and supervision. Therefore evaluation of the achievement of
objectives is essentially qualitative.
*   There are no data to indicate that livestock productivity was raised by expanding animal health services
during this project, and such services were not actually expanded, but rather deteriorated because of
insecurity and social unrest.
*   There are no data to indicate that poverty was alleviated among herders. At best it didn't deteriorate
further, but insecurity probably had an impact on the marketing of livestock and livestock products by
making it more hazardous and less profitable.
*   The most important achievements relate to institutional development with the successful establishment
under this project of FIDE, the Interprofessional Livestock Development Fund, a private financial
institution outside Government, managed by a Board where herder representatives have a majority
vote.
3   FNEC, the National Federation of Herders, became more democratic and independent from
Government interference, but suffered deeply from the riots and looting, which considerably weakened
it.
*   The rangelands component was never implemented on the projected scale because of insecurity, and
remained an experimental activity.
Major factors affecting implementation and outcome (Part 5). Although the project had been identified,
prepared, and launched under exceptionally favorable circumstances, the socio-political events occurring in
the country after one year of implementation (three mutinies over 18 months, and permanent political
instability thereafter), brought an interruption of implementation, and loss of assets and resources.
Implementation could never resume despite initiatives by. Donors and Government, such as the anticipated
Mid-Term Review meant to re-launch the project after the first mutiny. Civil disobedience and lack of
timely responses by the Government eventually led to closing the Project. The Bank and co-financiers
waited for three years after the Mid-Term Review out of concern for the future of the capacity building
component (students sent abroad for long-term training), and also hoped for a change of attitude by the
Government that never occurred.
Sustainability (Part 6). Sustainability is rated Uncertain because of the circumstances under which the
Project had to be closed and the impact of the general situation in the country (insecurity), on livestock
activities and development.
Bank and Borrower performance (Part 7). Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory (marginally
so) because it was HS at identification and appraisal and until the MTR was completed, but deteriorated
when supervision was no longer possible because of the local situation. The Bank could perhaps have
maintained a more active dialogue with its partners, although high Government turn-over made that
difficult.
Overall Borrower performance is rated Unsatisfactory, although it was rated HS at preparation. Serious
deterioration on implementation after the first year caused the rating to change.
-2 -



Implementing agencies' performance is rated Satisfactory for FIDE, which did well throughout the project
in spite of minor shortcomings; Unsatisfactory for ANDE which deteriorated very quickly; and FNEC rated
Satisfactory (marginally) because the losses it suffered make it difficult to assess what its real performance
could have been under normal circumstances.
Lessons learned (Part 8). The participatory approach at identification (1992) and appraisal (1994) and
during the MTR was extremely effective in helping achieve a design addressing the real challenges of the
subsector.
FNEC and FIDE, the two institutions outside Government in this project, fared better than ANDE,
however, FNEC suffered high losses. Although it afforded FNEC some protection against Government
attempts at re-establishing control, the Project Agreement between FNEC, IDA, and IFAD didn't provide
total immunity and was of little benefit against the consequences of socio-political unrest.
FIDE stands out as a model for the organization of financial flows to the livestock sector, both from within
(user fees) and outside (Credit funds), from the private sector (fees), and from Government, with joint
management in which professionals have the opportunity to gain control.
The Bank delayed closing this project in hopes that a political change of attitude would restore the original
openness and convergence of strategies that had presided over the early stages of project design. Its
resilience was not rewarded except after the Project closed, the Government agreed to finance the final
years of education for the 12 students sent to Senegal for long-term training under the project, thus saving
one of the major achievements of this project.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were to:
- improve the productivity of the Borrower's livestock sector and further its integration into the
Borrower's economy;
e improve the standards of living of the herder population through increased diversification of their
sources of income;
* strengthen the livestock sector's professional organizations, through democratization of their operations
and decentralization of the decision making process; and
e promote adequate and sustainable management of natural resources.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were never modified, and found still valid by the Mid term Review when it was
implemented in November 1996.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was designed with three parts each of whom had several components.
Part A, Strengthening of the institutionalframtework
1. (a) Establish and manage FIDE as an interprofessional organization to coordinate financing of sectoral
field activities to be carried out by livestock sector organizations, and (b) formulate and implement
procedures to enable FIDE to mobilize and promptly collect all its revenues and allocate them as required
to sustain the development of the livestock sector.
2. Improve the operational capacity of ANDE and FIDE through acquisition of equipment, vehicles, and
financing of operating costs.
-3 -



3. Promote AEA in selected localities and provide services necessary to improve the productivity and
sustainability of the livestock sector.
4. Establish and manage a mutual savings and loan scheme to provide credit to herders and
agro-pastoralists.
5. Design and implement a herd rebuilding scheme, designed to help herders whose herding stock has been
depleted, but are willing to remain herders based on the "passing-on-the-gift" system or any other system
yielding the same results.
6. Conduct (a) a baseline survey of the livestock sector, including a demographic analysis of the herder
community, particularly herders experiencing herd attrition; (b) select and monitor a representative sample
of herders and herds; and (c) establish a monitoring and evaluation system for project activities.
7. Conduct (a) a legal and sociological study aimed at streamlining the current procedure for establishing
new ZAGROP and providing land tenure security to herders and farmers established in the said zones; and
(b) conduct a study to identify and assess traditional subsistence and commercial hunting patterns with a
view to improving the sustainability of traditional hunting, particularly in the wildlife management zone.
8. Strengthen FNEC's grassroots representative character and improve its capacity to efficiently carry out
all its operations.
Part B, Improvement productivity of the livestock sector
1. Create about 16 additional ZAGROP in the western, central, and eastern regions.
2. Carry out of the following activities in all ZAGROP developed under the Project:
* assess water needs and development of water supplies for human and livestock use;
* install storage, processing, marketing facilities required for livestock products;
*   acquire satellite images required for land use mapping; land rights security, and an adequate use of
Savannah lands;
*   acquire necessary equipments, vehicles, bicycles, motorbikes, materials and supplies;
* rehabilitate and maintain about 400 km of new primary tracks to' secure adequate access to all
ZAGROP developed under the Project; and
*   construct and maintain about 800 km of secondary tracks and construct main firebreak structures.
3. Strengthen animal health and husbandry services inter alia, by: (a) training ANDE's staff to adequately
implement all animal health regulations; and (b) equip five border control posts to strengthen screening of
animal diseases and prevent their spread into the Borrower's territory and increase the mobility of border
control inspectors.
4. By acquiring vehicles and equipment, provide, inter alia, grassroots development services aimed
primarily at men and women members of grassroots and federal organizations to enable them to usefully
participate in and manage these organizations.
5. Conduct field experiments focused on themes relating to animal production and animal health.
6. By acquiring vehicles and equipment, provide, inter alia, extension services aimed primarily at women,
youth and impoverished herders to familiarize them with appropriate technology for sedentary livestock
husbandry, crop farming, draft cultivation, and processing animal products.
-4-



7. Among the population established within the wildlife management area, promote livestock development
activities, including in particular, raising small ruminants, poultry and bee keeping.
Part C, Training
Formulate and execute: (a) a training program, including in-country seminars, study tours, and long term
study abroad, as appropriate, to increase the expertise and capacity of the relevant staff of all agencies
involved in the execution of the Project; (b) a training program geared at the herder's sons; and (c) a
functional literacy program geared at herder associations members, in particular, women and youth.
The costs of the components were the following:
Component                                    Cost ($)                    Rating
Part A
Institutional support                        5,300,000                      S
Financial assistance                         3,100,000                      U
Technical support                            2,300,000                      S
Part B
Rangeland management                         7,700,000                     U
Animal Health                                3,100,000                     U
Part C
|Grassroots capacity development             3,200,000                      S
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were reviewed during the Mid Term Review. All were still considered relevant, but
several new factors modified the original planning of implementation after the MTR, and implementation of
several components was deferred:
1. Wildlife, which was under the same Ministry as Agriculture and Livestock when the Project was
appraised, was moved to the Ministry of Forestry, Wildlife and Touring, with which cooperation was
temporarily deferred. Hence the wildlife component, studies of hunting, and activities in the wildlife
management area of the far east of the country were shelved.
2. The situation resulting from the riots and the growing insecurity in the hinterland caused the preliminary
study for implementation of the herd rebuilding scheme to be deferred. It could not be implemented
because consultants were no longer willing to visit the country. It was also a deterrent for potential
financial intermediaries for the credit component, which was initially deferred because a similar component
in another Bank-financed project in the country had procurement problems. Eventually, when the tender
for the other project was canceled, potential candidates for the Livestock Project could no longer be
mobilized.
3. Soon after the first mutiny in 1996, banditry developed in the rural areas where herders had been
established longest, particularly in the first three established western ZAGROP. After several families had
been victimized and their leaders murdered, most herders fled elsewhere, particularly to the east, where
security was better. The movement of herder populations disturbed all plans and it was decided to wait
until the herders had returned before emphasizing large-scale range management activities. They continued,
albeit in only two locations, and on an experimental scale with financial support from the European Union.
-5-



4. Following the mutinies and riots, all foreigners were evacuated for several months. The baseline survev
of herders which had just begun was suspended for a long time, but was eventually completed in part in
1997. The departure of all technical assistance for several months dealt a severe blow to Project
implementation, which never recovered from this interruption.
5. Tensions which were not perceptible under the previous projects and during identification, preparation,
and appraisal, arose between the rural communities of herders and crop farmers in the most densely
populated areas of the center-north, causing further movements of herders due to insecurity, and making all
field operations, including vaccination of cattle and quarantine control, problematic.
6. All these factors were initially considered linked to the situation in the capital, but with time it became
clear that the problem were there to stay.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated Highly Satisfactory because:
*   the capitalization of all the achievements of the two previous successful projects;
* the higly participatory manner in which the identification and preparation processes w-ere carried
out; and
* the continuous and deep collaboration among Donors.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. / Ouicomeiachievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives is rated Unsatisfactory There are no data available to indicate that livestock
productivity -was raised by expanding animal health services under this project. The nine veterinary
students being trained in Senegal did not complete their curriculum before the project closed. The looting of
FNEC's warehiouses during the riots seriously disrupted distribution of veterinary pharmaceuticals,
resulting in increased mortalities of livestock and alleged emigration of a number of herds to neighboring
countries. Although FNEC has been able to resume drug distribution, albeit at a much reduced level, it is
likely that animal health services remain belo%% pre-riot and pre-project performance levels.
There are no data to indicate that poverty was alleviated among herders. The herd rebuilding component
was never implemented, despite a strong grassroots demand, because the preliminary survey on its
implementation never took place due to lack of security. Yet a mission by a religious sclholar financed by
another Donor (France) resulted in a public condemnation of the way "Zakat" (the Moslem religious tax)
*was collected forcefully by customary chiefs in CAR, and certainly contributed to relieving the customary
fiscal burden on the poorest herders. The Mutual Credit component was never implemented because
potential candidates to be a financial intermediary did not bid because of the security situation.
FIDE, the Interprofessional Livestock Fund, was successfully established under the project and operated
according to expectations to collect users' fees on cattle markets. Collection achieved the targeted figures
for the first three years of project implementation, providing finances to support vital project operations
during the suspension of disbursements by Donors (Bank and IFAD). It remains a major source of finance
after the closing of the IDA and IFAD Credits.
Under its new statutes adopted as a condition of Board presentation for this Credit, FNEC, the National
Federation of Herders, became more democratic with the suppression of any direct involvement of
Government in its structures and operations. Two-thirds of its trustees wvere elected by the base. After the
-6 -



riots and looting had greatly reduced its economic vitality, FNEC eventually survived and was able to
rebuild to a limited extent its drug distribution system to a limited extent with support from its foreign
suppliers and Donors (Germany, Japan).
The rangelands management component was never implemented on the projected large scale because of
security problems and has remained an experimental activity' financed by the EU.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A, Strengthening of the livestock sector institutionalframework
1. a. FIDE wvas established by a decree which became a law on October 28, 1994 as an Interprofessional
Development Fund. Its purpose is to sustainably finance the development of livestock. and rationally
manage natural resources. The Government also agreed through a subsidiary financing agreement to
channel through FIDE the funds from the IDA and IFAD Credits. FIDE would operate tinder the
Interprofessional Coordination Committee (CIC), a governing body of seven members, four of whom were
elected from FNEC, two from ANDE and one appointed by a Government representative with no special
right except a veto in cases when CIC's decisions would go against Government policies. CIC would meet
at quarterly. and its permanent operational structure would be UCTF, the Financial and Technical
Coordination Unit. Donors wvere to be invited to CIC's meetings as observers.
1. b. FIDE was allocated the balance of funds remaining oni the former Livestock Development Fund
(FDE). It had provided financial support for essential operations of ANDE during the two-year period
between the end of the preceding National Livestock Development Project and the beginning of the
implementation of the current one. FIDE was recognized legally as a Public Interest Institution
(Etablissement d'lnteret Public). a disposition which allowed it to collect fees and manage public funds
directly.
2. The tender for vehicles and equipments had been prepared before the Project, and could thus be launchied
as soon as the Credit became effective. Part of the delivery took place before the 1996 mutiny and
equipment was lost to looting, but part of the vehicles! delivered later, were saved.
3. The procedure to establish ZAGROP was modified and simplified through a law dated September 20,
1994. The responsibility for the official recognition of ZAGROP Nkas transferred to the Ministry for
Agriculture and Livestock (MAE). Practical implementation procedures were to be determined by a
constiltant study (see below).
4. The tender to recruit a financial intermediary to implement the Credit component had been prepared
before the Credit became effective, but when it was to be implemented, the Bank was in disagreement with
the Government about awarding a contract for a similar operation for another IDA-financed Project.
Eventually an agreement for this other operation was reached, but at that time, insecurity in the countrx
deterred potential bidders, and this component was never implemented.
5. It had been agreed that the herd rebuilding scheme would be launched only' after a preliminary consultant
mission had determined more precisely in concentration with beneficiaries, how  the "passing-on-the-gift"
principle could be implemented. At first it vwas difficult to identify a consultant with suitable experience for
this mission, and when one was identified, the local situation, made his mission impractical. Since this
operation was considered rather risky, it was decided to postpone it until the preliminary mission could
actually be implemented. and this was not possible before the Project closed.
-7 -



6. The tender to recruit a consultant to carrv out the baseline survey and establish a Monitoring and
Evaluation system for the project had been prepared before the Project became effective and was launched
soon thereafter. A consultant was recruited. visited the country and launched the survev  but * as
interrupted b) the first mutinv. He left the country. The activity resumed later, and eventually the survey
was completed, but by that time, recommendations for strengthening ANDE's Monitoring and E%aluation
unit could not be implemented because of difficulties with ANDE's management and the suspensions of
disbursements.
7. Local consultants wvere recruited through a local competitive bidding process to implement the legal. and
sociological study aimed at streamlining the procedures to establish ZAGROP, bit they could not start
working before Project implementation ground to a halt.  The study on traditional huntilng patterns was
postponed by the Mid Term Review until an agreement could be reached with the new Ministry in charge of
hunting and wildlife management.
Part B, Improvement of thle productivity of tlte livestock sector
1. None of the additional 16 ZAGROP was created. Initial studies could not be completed because of the
security situation and subsequent movements of herder populations.
2. Activities in all ZAGROP were not carried out except w'ith financing from the EU on an experimenital
scale.
3. Strengthening animal health and husbandry' services was undertaken, but there was a disagreement
between ANDE and the Bank about rehabilitation of the Bouar Livestock Training Center, which would
have cost more and provided lower quality training than sending trainees to training institutionis in the
sub-region. The MTR decided in favor of the second option, but actual implementation wvas not started
before the general situation in the country deteriorated. The building of the five new border control posts
was not started because there was still some uncertaint) about where to locate them because of changes in
commercial cattle routes.
4. Equipments and vehicles *'.ere provided to FNEC's grassroots development division (DAMI), but -were
lost during the mutinies. This activity was the only one wvith continued support under direct management by
FIDE/UCTF until the Project closed. Funding was from FIDE's own resources when disbursements from
IDA and IFAD Credits were suspended.
5. Field experimentation was funded by the EU component, but was interrupted during the periods of civil
unrest. They were focused on long term themes (improving traditional range management techniques), but
didn't yield results during the life of the Project.
6. The MTR found that there was a misunderstanding between ANDE and the Project about the concept of
extension services. The contract that was to be signed between ANDE and ACDA (the agricultural crop
extension agency) had been very loosely' drafted and didn't address the real objectives of the Project.
Activities wvere focused on providing additional support for settled farmers, but not as planned by the
Project, which was support for impoverished herders forced to settle and start subsistence cropping as their
herds dwindled. The MTR decided that this contract had to be redrafted. This could not be completed
before disbursements were suspended. The extension staff which ANDE had recruited at the start of the
Project was put on "Chomage technique" when disbursements were suspended, and theni dismissed wvhen the
Project closed.
7. The activities in the wildlife management area were never started for the same reasons as those for which
- 8 -



the studies were postponed.
Part C, Training
A training program managed by ANDE had been prepared before the Project became effective and was
initiated immediately thereafter. A first group of six students was selected and sent to the Dakar Interstate
Veterinary School in September 1996. A second group of three others to be trained at Thies (Senegal) in
animal husbandry were sent in 1997. This long-tern training program was the greatest concern of Project
management. It appeared at the time of the MTR that ANDE had mismanaged the students scholarship
funds and put this component in jeopardy. The MTR decided that this program would be directly managed
by FIDE/UCTF which contracted it to CIRAD-EMVT, the only organization willing to prefinance and
monitor this program. This agreement went on until the project closed. When this occurred, the first group
of students was still one year away from graduation. The students stayed in Senegal, until eventually the
Government agreed to finance the resumption and completion of their training using another resource. Two
of the four herder's sons sent to France to be trained in agricultural management failed to quality, but
remained in France to continue sudying on their own. The others succeeded and returned home. The
functional literacy program w'as implemented successfully by FNEC's grassroots development division
(DAM).
4.3 N\et Present IValue. Economic rate of return.
In the SAR the economic analysis was dealt with in paragraph 5.06 to 5.09, from which the following
passage is extracted: "The two main components of the project comprise action to: (a) improve rangelands
management through the development of ZAGROPs, and (b) upgrade animal health. The first component
would have a measurable impact in helping preserve the country's natural productive capital, while the
second would greatly improve the herder's financial situation. These two components amount for about 33
and 45 percent respectively of total project expenditures. The nature of their benefits makes it impractical
to calculate an internal rate of return. The benefits of the rangelands management component (preservation
of natural resources capital) are not recurrent. Those from the animal health component materialize very
rapidly after the pertinent expenditures are made (fruition period under two years), and would produce an
internal rate of return which, while very high, would have no valid significance for decision taking.
Economic analysis will therefore be limited to a simple receipts/costs comparison omitting the time
concept."
For the rangeland management component, the analysis concluded that "Even if the relative preference for
lands near the major markets implies only a fraction of the absolute value, the ZAGROP investments,
otherwise justified by their numerous social effects, would appear acceptable on economic grounds."
The conclusion for the animal health component was: "Even if the number of animals reached by the health
services was 25 percent below the initial projections, the capital-output ratio would still be 4, comparable
to that for the best rural projects. and the cash flow would still be rapidly positive."
Unfortunately the destruction of data during the riots precludes any ex-post analysis and calculations of a
net present value and economic rate of return.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
Not available
4.5 Institutional dev,elopment impact:
The institutional development impact is rated Modest. As discussed above, FNEC, a national NGO and
-9-



professional institution that had been established under a previous Project and reformed before this project
became effective, proved its ability to survive the dramatic material and financial losses suffered during the
mutinies and riots, and to remain the central herder organization although with a much diminished weight.
FIDE, which was established under this Project to replace the former Livestock Development Fund
managed within the Government, operated successfully as an independent private financial institution. It
collected user fees and managed financial flows from and to the livestock subsector, and continues to do so
after the end of the Project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agenc,Y.:
The project was designed and prepared under extremely favorable auspices. It was building on the
achievements of two successive successful livestock projects, and received continued support from all
major Donors in CAR--IDA, IFAD, the EU and France. All Donors contributed to the preparation and
appraisal of the project, and EU, IDA, and IFAD financing became almost simultaneously. Two years had
elapsed between Project inception and the end of the previous project because of the local political situation
and uncertainties. Negotiations and Board presentation were delayed because of local elections. Mutinies
and riots a year after the start of the Project initially disrupted implementation. Further mutinies and riots
resulted in the destruction of project assets, insecurity in the field, and implementation ground to a halt.
Othet Bank projects (PAIA, PARDEP), met with the same situation, difficulties, and outcome. The
Government didn't have the resources and capacities to concentrate on project implementation difficulties.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Institutional reforms (establishing FIDE, restructuring ANDE, modi1,'ing the regulations on land tenure to
allow for creation of herder-crop farmer associations, the AEAs), were carried out in a timely manner as
conditions for the appraisal, negotiations, and presentation of the project to the Board. But Government
was ultimately unable to reimburse the funds missing from the Special Account mismanaged by ANDE and
F'NEC in time to prevent closing the project afler a warning had been issued and disbursements suspended.
There was an excessive turn-over of Government officials, preventing any attempt at a continuous
dialogue. Between June 1996 and June 1998, six Ministers were successively appointed for the Agriculture
and Livestock portfolio, and between December 1997 and June 1998 there was only an Acting Minister.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Verv quickly ANDE appeared to be unable to properly manage Credit funds. It could not provide
justification for funds spent, and this resulted in project components (training) being %vithdrawn from
ANDE to be directly managed at FIDE's level. Ultimatelv disbursements were suspended. The same
applied to FNEC during the two initial years until it dismissed a Secretary General who was mismanaging
its assets.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The final cost of the project was US$ 4,676,164 for the IDA/IFAD financing (US$ 2,787,246 for the IDA
Credit and US$ 1,888,918 for the IFAD Credit), and the equivalent of US$1,772,000 for the Beneficiaries'
contributions. Financing from the EU and France is not known. Disbursements at project closing (after
four year's of activity) was 16.38 percent for the IDA Credit and 38.37 percent for the IFAD Credit. The
percentages are different because disbursements wvere suspended for different periods of time. While these
percentages are well below appraisal estimates, they must be considered high in view of the frequent
periods (although over 13 months) during wvhich disbursements were suspended, mainly because service
charges on this and other loans granted by IDA and IFAD were not paid. Expenditures were particularly
high in Category I (equipment and vehicles) and Category 4 (operating costs), uith the livestock
- 10 -



institutions FIDE and ANDE as the main beneficiaries. Comparatively smaller amounts were disbursed for
activities more directly benefiting IFAD's target group (grassroots development, literacy training) and for
consultants' services and overseas training.  Costs for the other Donors were not made available.
Beneficiaries contributed through FIDE over a four-years period.  It is remarkable that in the end,
beneficiaries contributed almost one-third of total project cost.
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale for sustainability rating
Sustainabilitv is rated Uncertain because since the components most valued by Beneficiaries (herd
rebuilding, mutual credit, establishment of herder-farmers associations) will not be implemented, and
FNEC has lost much of its economic importance and cohesion of the herder community is likely to weaken.
Insecurity is another threat to sustainability since it has already caused the emigration of many herder
groups. Insecurity also hampers the collection of funds by FIDE. Political unrest with the accompanying
civil disobedience is a further threat to the operations of FIDE.
6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Considering the conditions under which the Project closed, no specific transition arrangements have been
made. Transition rests essentially on FIDEIUCTF's ability to carry on with its role in controlling financial
flows within the livestock sector.  Recent information from the Borrower tends to indicate that fee
collections become increasingly irregular.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bunk
7. I Lending:
Bank performance is rated Satisfactory. The appraisal mission in April 1993 included 12 members in order
to cover all components (three Bank staff, two Bank consultants for rangelands and rural roads; two IFAD
consultants for rural credit and institutions; two EU representatives one from Nairobi, one from the local
EU Office; one representative from the French Ministry of Cooperation, one representative from the local
French Cooperation mission, and one FAC consultant for xvildlife). It was funded by all Donors, and
managed to hold 15 meetings in remote villages across the country, thus consulting with an estimated 1,500
beneficiaries. Negotiations and Board presentation were delayed because of local elections. As soon as the
project became effective by mid-April 1995, a joint mission with cofinanciers was organized and met in the
field on June 4 for the project launch Seminar. Rather uncommonly all financings was made available
simultaneously (IDA-IFAD. April 1995, EU-PARC in March 1995, and the continuation of the French
FAC which had been the only support to the sector since the end of PNDE).
' ' Slupervision.
The performance of the Bank is rated marginally Satisfactory. The first joint supervision began on June 2,
1995 and put the project on track. The second supervision took place six months later in November 1995
and was also a joint operation of all Donors (EU-PARC participated through both its regional and local
representatives). It reported that the project, despite some concerns about financial management at ANDE,
was off to a promising start. The third supervision, originally scheduled for April 1996, had to be
postponed because of mutinies, riots and civil unrest, followed by political instability. The riots resulted in
looting and destruction of Project facilities (FNEC's headquarters, ANDE offices), loss of assets ($1
million worth of pharmaceutical supplies at FNEC, $0.5 million worth of lost vehicles and equipments
altogether in all components).
The new political situation temporarily reduced Government authority and induced the herders to depose
- 11 -



the government- supported FNEC Board, elect a new board, and dismiss the governiment-supported
Secretary General who had abused his po%Ners during the past two years. Donors agreed that under these
circumstances it was necessary to advance the Mid-Term Review and entirely reassess the situation of the
project implementation. The advanced MTR took place between October 8 and 28, 1996, and the team
drafted and presented a joint MTR report before leaving the country. It found that due to riots and
insecurity, the implementation of certain components (mutual credit, herd rebuilding, and development of
new pastoral areas) Would have to be postponed until peace returned, and that due to the mismanagement of
Credit funds by ANDE and losses suffered by FNEC, financial management had to be recentralized at
FIDE's level, the only location wvith appropriate accounting capabilities and permanent Technical
Assistance. It also found that 160 million CFAF in advances to ANDE and FNEC wvere unaccounted for
and had to be either justified or reimbursed by the Government. Due to the misappropriation of scholarship
funds by ANDE managers. financial support to the 12 students funded under the project to be trained as
veterinarians and animal husbandry specialists *vas contracted to CIRAD b) FIDE for reliability, effective
monitorinig, and supervision. There was still hope that FNEC w%ould be able to recoup its losses and
gradually resume activities with help from some bilateral Donors (Germany, Japan, and France).
Political unrest and civil disorder didn't stop, leading to a prolonged stalemate in Government throLighouit
1997, with renewed mutinies and looting. Meanwhile, FIDE went on collecting user fees from the herders
on cattle markets, at levels correspondinig to those expected at appraisal, indicating a persistent
commitment of grassroots beneficiaries to the sector organization established under the project. Activities
hesitantly resumed for components supported by EU and France. and on a limited scale -- support to
herders associations, and development of crop-farmers/herder associations in two former ZAGROPs. Due
to the existence of the Project Agreements with FNEC and the general orientation of the project outside
Government, Donors maintained their support throughout FY 1997 while hoping for an improved general
situation in the country, but no further supervision was possible. At the beginning of 1998, disbursements
were suspended because the government was late paying arrears to the Bank, during which time activities
were reduced and ANDE staff put on leave without pay (chomage technique). Following this general
suspension, the Government was not answering the Bank's requests to justifv or reimburse the missing
Credit fuinds, and there was an investigation into FNEC's management before the riots. Disbursements
affecting ANDE were partially suspended from January 12 to April 12, 1999, followed by a general
suspension of Credit disbursements with a warning to Government that the project would be closed.
Eventually the project was closed on June 30. The Government repaid the missing CFAF 160 million on
Julv 19. 1999, but it vas too late.
.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was Satisfactory, with much proactivity at project inception and close
cooperation with other Donors for joinlt supervisions and the MTR. But little could be done during long
periods of political unrest in 1997 and 1998, and the fate of the long-term students was a constant concern
when closing the project became more real in late 1998, explaining delays in making the final decision to
close the project. Every possibilit) has been unsuccessfully explored with cofinanciers. IFAD will close its
Credit for which the Bank is the Cooperating Institution. but the EU and France maintain their support,
which focuses on institutional support to FIDE and FNEC, and limited applied research on range
management through the relevant unit of ANDE. Cofinanciers have all been supportive of the project, and
particularly of FNEC.
Borrower
'. 4 Preparation:
At preparation, Borrowver performance was Very Satisfactory. Although more than tvo years had elapsed
- 12 -



since the completion of the previous livestock development project in CAR (PNDE, closed in 1992). the
current project started under promising auspices. The project had been identified during the last supervision
of PNDE in November 1992. and was prepared almost immediately by a consultant, wvith 20 years of
experience in the CAR livestock sector who traveled throtughout the country to meet and conisuilt with local
communities and herders.
. 5 Governtnent implementation performance:
The performance of the Government for implementation is rated Unsatisfactory. The project was identified
in 1992 and prepared durinig the followling year under a Government that recognized the economic
importance of the livestock sector and xvas very tolerant of autonomy for FNEC and Donor suppot
targeted at this subsector. But the government that came to power when the project was negotiated, signed
and during all of its implementation never accepted the emergence of a strong self-reliant organization of
herders and used all available means to try and establish control of both the political and financial
leadership. This situation was not alien. FNEC was targeted during the riots, under pressure when a new
Secretar- General was to be recruited, and targeted with attempts to manipulate herders general assemblies,
government representatives at CIC  (the management committee of FIDE), and the FIDE  Director.
Attempts were also made to impose financial advantages incompatible with FIDE's by-laws.
- 6 Imnplementing 4gencv:
FIDE's performance is rated Satisfactory. So far. FIDE remains the only example in Africa of a finanicial
mechanism through which beneficiaries from the livestock sector contribute to the financing operations and
have some control over project management as Donors partners. Its establishment w'as made possible
because of the relatively successful experience of collecting user fees for FDE under the two previous
projects. These user fees were originally allocated to establishing a veterinary drug distribution system
through FNEC. which addressed a priority request from herders. Beneficiaries always undestood how the
fees they pay were used. At the time * 'hen international financial institutions and other Donors are
encouraging Governmenits to streamlire budgets and suppress all sideline financial processes, an
interprofessional fund like FIDE. with private status and management but an official entitlemenit to collect
fees (Reconnu d'utilite publique). appears to be viable to gradually recover costs and ensure the
sustainability of activities for beneficiaries. The performance of FIDE has remained Satisfactory to Highly
Satisfactory throughout the existence of the project.
FNEC's performance is rated marginally Satisfactory. FNEC. a direct partner of IDA and IFAD through
Project Agreements, has not been inmune to political interference, but thanks to these partnerships has
found the strength to start defending its indepenidence, a rare case in Africa. FNEC was uliable to control a
Secretary General who misused its assets and Project funds and abused his powers for two years before
being dismissed by a General Assembly in August 1996. It is remarkable that FNEC achieved enough
recognition to be granted a grace period from  its creditors after the mutinies and even to be partially
resupplied in order to resume distribution of veterinary drugs. Continuous political unrest, however, puts
all achievements in jeopardy, and encotirages divisions within the herder communitv.
The performance of ANDE. whichi was the only structure with some national technical expertise in the
implementationi of previous projects, is rated Highly Unsatisfactory. The Agency has now become too
much of a parastatal. with permanent government interference for appointments of senior staff. and
excessive top-dov\n management. When young professionals presently undergoing long-term  training
return, pressure will increase for a real privatization of veterinary and advisory services.  ANDE's
technical support for range management and animal husbandry advice will have to be transferred to local
private consultant, the establishment of which will be encouraged. This could not be addressed under the
- 13-



current project.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
The performance of the Borrower was excellent during preparation and appraisal, but deteriorated
thereafter along with the general political situation. Recommendations from the MTR were implemented
belatedly, some to such an extent (reimbursement of SA funds), that they became useless in preventing
closure of the project. The increasing politicization of the Government became a growing handicap. FIDE,
as one of the last funds with resources outside Government, attracted increasingly unsolicited interest. The
overall performance of Borrower is rated Unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The Government and stakeholders were closely associated with the process of identification, preparation
and appraisal of the project, and consultations with grassroots beneficiaries were held during the appraisal
mission in 15 locations for an estimated 1,500 persons. Such wide contact ensured a relevant project design
that addressed concerns of potential beneficiaries, and disseminated information on project objectives and
purpose. This approach explains the continued support of the Project by the herder community and the
resilience of project institutions despite a very chaotic political situation. This early participatory approach
was key to the quality of project identification, preparation, and appraisal.
Until FIDE was established, users fees were collected by FNEC and were supposed to be in part
transferred to the former LDF, but this system didn't operate in a satisfactory manner because (a) FNEC
was reluctant and always behind schedule in transfering funds, and (b) FDE was an element of the national
budget, and mobilization was a cumbersome process, contingent upon the availability of cash in the
treasury, a very rare occurrence. Thus, the successful establishment of FIDE, after some initial difficulties
with FNEC's field representatives, can be considered a success and a Best Practice. The Fund subsequently
operated in an autonomous manner and Government attempts at appointing unplanned paid supervisors or
requesting FIDE to finance operations outside its mandate were successfully repelled with intervention from
Donors (who have a status of observers at CIC meetings). FIDE provided the continuous financial support
to essential project activities (support to herders associations, training, audits, maintenance of cattle
marketing facilities), when no other source of funds was available, particularly during suspensions of IDA
and IFAD disbursements. Its weakness has been a tendency to overpay its staff, and constant attempts from
CIC members to try and increase their attendance fees. FIDE and FNEC, two institutions ouotside
Government, fared better than ANDE, the only parastatal implementing agency.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower comments (from FIDE's Director) were received belatedly. They can be summarized as follows:
*    The initial design of the project was extremely satisfactory and promising, particularly because of
the consensus among Donors and Government. If Project components had been implemented as
designed, they would have had a major impact on the livestock sector, but unforeseen events
completely jeopardized project implementation -- the three successive mutinies of 1996 and 1997,
and the lack of security that coused herders to move from one area to another.
*   The end of IDA and IFAD support after 15 years is considered a grave blow to the livestock sector
at a time when it is more in need than ever of external support and guidance.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 14 -



1. Objectives. IFAD's main objective in cofinancing the PDEGP was to contribute to poverty
alleviation and to the empowerment of grassroots organizations in CAR. The successful collaboration
with IDA and other partners in the past, in particular during the National Livestock Project (IFAD
Loan 186 CA), provided a good basis for further effort to strengthen the country's livestock sector and
its institutions. IFAD put particular emphasis on lifting the constraints faced by small-scale herders
and women and on strengthening herder organizations and their management capacity at local and
regional levels.
2. Project Design and Implementation. The project designed and approved by IFAD's EB in 1994
included all activities needed to attain the objectives, and provided policy and administrative reforms
and development support activities (rangeland management, animal health, grassroots capacity
development, financial assistance including herd reconstitution, technical support, and institutional
support). Project implementation, however, was not up to expectations and a number of crucial
activities were realized only in part or not at all (such as the herd reconstitution sub-component). While
there has not been an evaluation mission thus far, it has become obvious from supervision visits and the
Mid-term Review that projects impact on IFAD's target group has been negligible, and moreover, that
positive results of the earlier livestock projects have not been sustained.
3. IFAD cofinancing through a loan of SDR 3.4 million on highly concessional.terms was provided on
a pari passu basis with IDA. Disbursements at project closing, i.e. after four years of activity,
amounted to SDR 1,304,544 or 38.4% of the loan amount. While this percentage is well below
appraisal estimates, it must be considered high in view of the frequent periods (altogether over 13
months) during which disbursements were suspended, mainly due to non-payment of service charges on
this and other loans granted by IFAD. Expenditures were particularly high on Category I (equipment
and vehicles) and Category 4 (operating costs), with the livestock institutions FIDE and ANDE as the
main beneficiaries.  Comparatively smaller amounts were disbursed for activities more directly
benefiting IFAD's target group (grassroots development, literacy training) and for consultant services
and overseas training.
4. Factors affecting project implementation. The main factors in the disappointing implementation were
(a) political interference, (b) internal unrest and insecurity in the country, and (c) inadequate
performance by implementing agencies. Among the implementing agencies, only FIDE seems to have
complied with its terms of reference and executed its part of the project according to rules and agreed
upon procedures. Financial and other mismanagement was registered at the level of other agencies
involved, worsened by outside interference and the destruction of project property, accounts and
records due to the general country situation. Insecurity in most parts of the country further impeded
project implementation, including the restocking sub-component that could have particularly benefited
IFAD's target group.
5. Performance of the Cooperating Institution (CI). Supervision activities were hampered by the
country's political and security situation, in particular for field supervision. In view of the basic
"institution building" character of the project, technical aspects seem to have been somewhat neglected,
both by project implementers and supervisors. While management problems were tackled thoroughly
by the CI at the project staff level, policy issues were not addressed in an adequate manner. More open
consultations between Government and Donors might have yielded better results and led the Borrower
to respond more positively to the recommendations made by the CI.
6. Lessons. The main lesson to be drawn from IFAD's perspective deals with project impact on the
target group of rural poor/small livestock holders. Project activities will have to be geared more
-15-



directly toward the target group by not channeling assistance through apex or public organizations and
by working with the grassroots organizations and their members. A more general lesson is the need for
Donors to act quickly, forcefully, and in a concerted manner in cases were political interference and
financial mismanagement threaten successful project implementation. Immediate and complete
suspension by all Donors could have a better impact than pieceiieal action by single agencies. Such
concerted action could accelerate a positive response from the Borrower and thus minimize the negative
impact that a suspension can have on the grassroots participants. Moreover, in certain cases it may be
advisable to introduce stricter special account (including a lower authorized amount) and financial
reporting rules when the project begins. A third lesson is based on the experience of all three livestock
projects and relates to the sustainability of project investments. It has become obvious that public
maintenance services cannot be relied upon. It would, therefore, be preferable to entrust
project-financed buildings, equipment etc. to the extent possible to private organizations and agencies,
which for this purpose, would have to be involved from the beginning in the financing and O&M of
these investments.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No other comments have been received.
10. Additional Information
It is clear from the record of events that the project has not and will never achieve its objectives. The four
years of implementation have only led to the establishment of FIDE and its managerial body CIC as a
functional financial system. FIDE has operated albeit with increasing difficulties and under growing
pressures, as was expected. Through the collection of users fees it has been able to keep minimal activities
going even during the long suspensions of disbursements. The persistent civil unrest is encouraging fiscal
disobedience and FIDE is. increasingly confronted with misappropriation of the fees it collects, with a
resulting reluctance of herders to continue paying those fees. Audits have never found any reportable
mismanagement at FIDE's level. The fundamentals of the sub sector's financial organization appear as
sound as could be expected. Inside CIC, the power struggle between the only government, representative
and members elected from FNEC remains, always renewed by constant turn-over of government
appointees, and the need to educate the newcomers in their actual duties.
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:                             .__                                    _
1. Amount of fees collected by FIDE    (SAR target: increase from 240 million/year  Actual: 194.439 million CFAF in 1996
to 400 in PY 4)                                   243.697 million CFAF in 1997.
232.963 million CFAF in 1998
179.828 million CFAF in 1999
Total:    850.927 million CFAF (1.772 M$)
2. Sales of veterinary pharmaceuticals by    SAR target: none since CAR consumption   Fell to ca. CFAF 100/head/year in 1997 due
FNEC                                   of 400 CFAFlhead/ year in 1995 was already to shortage of stocks at FNEC following nots
above regional average                 and looting
3. Number of operational herder associations SAR target increase from 238 in 1994 to 358 Reduced to 209 in 1997 due to insecurity
in PY 4                                and shortage of pharmaceuticals.
4. Training of Project professionals   SAR target: 12 veterinarians, 11 DAM staff, Training of Project professionals. 1997
27 medium level staff, 10 scholarships for   figures: 9 veterinary students and 3 animal
herder children                        production engineers enrolled in Senegal
schools, all other programs on-going
including 4 herder children trained in France.
There was no logframe exercise during the preparation, appraisal, or implementation of this project. The
indicators are those identified in the SAR and the actual figures available at the time of this ICR
preparation.
Output Indicators:
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Cotn onent (in US$ million equivalent)
1. Rangeland management                                          7.74
2. Animal health                                                 3.19
3. Grassroots capacity development                               3.22
4. Financial assistance                                          3.17
5. Technical support                                             2.39
6. Institutional support                                         5.33
Total Baseline Cost                                             25.04              0.00
Physical Contingencies                                          2.99
Price Contingencies                                             4.41                   .
Total Project Costs                     32.44              0.00
Total Financing Required                      32.44              0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (APpraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                                         6.60                           0.40            7.00
()___ __ ___ __ _ _  o(6.60)   0            (0.00)          (6.60)
2. Goods                                          0.50           0.50           4.30            5.30
o)           (0.30)          (0.25)         (0.95)          (1.50)
3. Services                                                      9.30           3.80            13.10
o)             0)            (5.10)         (0.00)         (5.10)
4. Miscellaneous                                                 5.30            1.90           7.20
o)             ()            (3.50)         (0.00)          (3.50)
S. Miscellaneous                                                                                0.00
()________________________ _  o  0)  0)       ()            (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                                0.00
o)             0)             .0              ()            (0.00)
Total                          0.00            7.10           15.10          10.40           32.60
(0.00)         (6.90)          (8.85)         (0.95)         (16.70)
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         IC                                                        Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
o              0 ()  ()0X ()                 ()           (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.50           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.50
(0.27)           0              0              0            (0.27)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.00           0.15            0.15
o)           _()              0)           (0.09)         (0.09)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
o)             ()            ()              0 ()         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
()             0)            0)              0)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
()____________________ _  o)   ) 0)0                      (0.00)
Total                         0.50           0.00           0.00           0.15            0.65
(0.27)         (O 0)          (0.00)         (0.09)         (0.36)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Financing Plan
Million US$                     PerentN
IDA                                       16.63                         51.2
IFAD                                      4.92                          15.2
French Aid                                3.75                          11.6
EDF                                       5.10                          15.7
Beneficiaries                             0.43                           1.3
FIDE                                      1.62                          5.0
Total                                 32.45                         100.0
- 19 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Due to the losses of data during the mutinies and riots, it is impossible to perform an analysis of economic
costs and benefits for this project.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a)   M issions:              __._....______________________________.._.__
Stage of Project Cycle  -             No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists. I PMS, etc.)      Implementation       Development:
Month/Year    Count   3  Specialty                   -        Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation           4    I LV, I AG, I AREC, I AH              S                  S
10/924                         IL,A,AE,ASS
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/95                   11    1 LV, IAREC, I EX, I INF,              S                  S
I NRM, 1 MCR, I AH, I
RGM, I FA, I LL, IIM
Supervision
6/95                      3   I LV, 1 RGM, I AG                      S                  S
12/95                     3   1 LV, 1 RGM, I AG                      S                  S
11/96                     2   1 LV, I PO                             U                  U
ICR
AG     - agricultural specialist
AH     - animal health and training
AREC  - administrative reform and economic analysis
EX     - extension
FA     - financial analysis
IM     - institutional matters
INF    - infrastructure specialist
LL     - land legislation
LV     - livestock specialist
MCR   - mutual credit
NRM   - natural resources management
PO     - project officer
RGM   - rangeland management
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                 .   Actual/Latest Estimate
._______________________ _ :No. Staff  weeks        -         US$  (000)
Identification/Preparation                   59                          186
Appraisal/Negotiation                      97.1                        284.6
Supervision                                50.7                         142.1
ICR                                           0                            0
Total                                     206.8                         612.7
-21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          OH  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Sector Policies                         OH  OSU*M  ON  O NA
Z Physical                                OH  OSUOM  * N  O NA
 Financial                              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
 Institutional Development              0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
X Gender                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
i Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Ol Lending                                           * HS O'S  O U  O HU
El Supervision                                       O HS * S  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS Os   * U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                        * HS OS  O U  O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS OS  O U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                OHS OS  * U  O HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  * U  O HU
-23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. The World Bank: CAR Livestock Development and Rangelands Management Project. Staff Appraisal
Report, December 1, 1994, Report No. 13075-CA.
2. Republique Centrafricaine; Projet de Developpement de l'Elevage et de Gestion des parcours - Mission
d'Evaluation a Mi-Parcours Rapport de Mission (October 1996).
3. FNEC Secretariat General Rapport d'Activites 1996, 1997.
4. ANDE Rapport Annuel de l'Agence Nationale de Developpement de l'Elevage 1996, 1997.
5. FIDE Rapport d'Activites de l'Ann6e 1996, 1997.
6. FIDE Situation actuelle du PDEGP (August 1998).
-24 -



-25 -






MAP SECTION






NIGER  I                                                                                               /                  24                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 2565~
N I GE R                                                                                                                                         ~'            ~CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
CHAD  SUDAN                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJET NATIONAL D'ELEVAGE
NIGERIA                                                                                                 V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   A ~~~~~~~PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AREA
N I G E I, I A                                                                                                            BIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO                        LOCATION OF ZAGROPS &
/   )  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~s  ~~~~~~~MNAGEMENT AREA
,-  'N    ~~~~~~~~-                                                        '~~~~~S                                                           ES   AGRO-PASTORAL DEVELOPMENT AREAS (ZAGROPS)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  ARORATOALDEELPMNTARAS(ZGRPS
TRAL         2                                                                                                                                                        VA~S2.ILDURE MAANLAGEM.ENT AREA 1270,000 K.D 'I
f  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~(' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  ZONE DINTERET CYNErETIQUE ZtC. 270,000kLIE)
)CAMEROGN  AFRICAN REP BLIC ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               -                                                               S~~~~~1  VETTEINARY POSTS~~~~~ETRIAR PST
)                                                        8~~~~~~~~~~~~OE'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i             ' ,%ANJA',     \                                                  EXISTIRG INFRASTRUCTURE,
0T..   ~~~~~~~  ZAIRE                                                                           VIRRAE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~~~~                                     INFRASTRUCTURE PALS CANCEl~~~~~~~~~IFRSTUCUR EISANE.
ZAiRE   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SadoLIoID.,j                                                                      A    VETERINARY CENTERS BUILT OR RESTORED
LTATORIALI  ~                                                                                                                                                  UNdR~4,                                       CENTRES VEYVRPAARE CONSTRUES OU REFECTDONNES
GUINEA                                            J/UG~~~~~~~                                                                                  ~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~ANDA                   -'  *'jLRIs DETIQDEORS
,~~~  U, ~~~~CONGO                                                                                                                                                    0                                          STATION T'EIEVAOE DES RYRPANO-TOLERANYS
16'    )%N'Di                              NDELE                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COUtOIRA DE VACCINATION
I"" k            o3   FNEC DRAG DEPOTS
'I       \           ~~~~~~~~~~DEPOTS PHAAWAECIES PNEC
OARUdd.                                                   R-FE-TVO PROPOSEE DES PISTES
CAMIEROONb
SUDAN
LATA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I B~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  I'   
t3~~~~~~~~~~~~~OD                                                           ~~~E~D4
.Aw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- "A.                                                                                               '5
ASS                                   MAIN ROADSN2~p
_                U    IT.,~~~~~~~~~~OUE PPN7AE
RASCALS S    of~~~~~~sO0  ~SECNDRYOAD AS
"WULA                   u I                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROUTESPNPAE
BERBERATI  I   B.d.                                                  AV                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER ROADS
AUTRES ROUTES
B                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
WARAIS
I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN7ERNATIONAl AIRPORT
AEROPRT SNTERNA DONAL
SECTOR  DISTRIC HEADQIUARTERS)
-g...b. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oCREEELEU DES SECTEUR REGION
PROSINCIAL I PRERECTURE CAPITALS
o    CREYE DES PROVINCESI /RTRECTORTS
NTRASTONAL BOOUNDARIES
-   -CIETES INTERNATIONALES
HaOMTRS
2CR0                                                                            24'10 20 25  0
CONGO                                                                                       Th. b .. d-i.,    d--m.ti- -d -fT.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY99



