Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13075-CA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND RANGELAND
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 1, 1994
Agriculture and EnvironLent Operations
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unt     _   CFAF Franc ICFAF)
US$1.00          =   CFAF 590
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
F18CAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
UST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACCB        -      CAR Association of Uvestock Traders
(Association centrefriceine des commarcants en b6tai/)
ACDA        -      CAR Agricultural Development Agency
(Agence centrafricaine de d4voloppemrnt egricole)
AEA         -      Herders and Farmers Association
(Association d'6leveurs et agriculteurs)
ANBC        -      National Association of Central African Butchers
(Association netionele des bouchers centrefricains)
ANDE        -      National Uvestock Development Agency
(Agence Nationale pour /a diveloppement de /'s/evage)
CIC         -      Interprofessional Coordination Committee
(ComitJ interprofessionnal de coordination)
CICM        -      International Mutualistic Credit Center
(Centre international de crjdit mutuSa
DAM         -      Grassroots Capacity Development Department (FNEC)
(Departement d'animation mutualiste de /a FNEC)
DPA         -      Animal Production Directorate IANDE)
(Direction de /a production animal. de l'ANDE)
DSA         -      Animal Health Directorate (ANDE)
(Direction de la sant6 animale de I'ANDE)
FDE         -      Uvestock Development Fund
(Fonds de d4veloppament de l'ilevaga)
FELGIP      -      Local Federation of Herding Interest Groups
(FEdiration locale de groupements d'int6rdts pastoraux)
FIDE        -      Inter-Professional Uvestock Development Fund
IFonds interprofessionel de dAveloppement de l'6evavge)
FNEC        -      CAR National Herders Federation
(Fediration nationala des eleveurs cantrafricains)
GIAP        -      Mixed Farming Interest Group
(Groupement d'intfrdt agro-pastoral
GIP         -      Herding Interest Group
(Groupament d'intirdt pastoral)
ICRA        -      CAR Agronomic Research Institute
(Institut cantrafricain de recherch aogronomique)
MAE         -      Ministry of Agriculture and Uvestock
(Ministkre d /'agricu/ture at de '/a41vage
MEF         -      Ministry of Water, Forestry, Hunting, Fishing and Tourism,
with responsibility for the environment
(Ministere des eaux, for6ts, chassa, piche at tourism.,
chargiA de l/'nvironnament)
NLP         -      National Uvestock Project
PAIA        -      Agricultural Services Development Project
(Projet d'assistance aux institutions agricoles)
PARC        -      Pan African Rinderpest Campaign
PARN        -      Natural Resources Management Project
(Projet d'amdnagamant des rassourcas natural/es)
PETF        -      Technical and Financial Implementation Program
(Programme d'ix6cution technique at financiere)
PNDE        -      National Uvestock Development Project
(Projpt national do diveloppament de P'6/evege)
UCF         -      Financial Coordination Unit of MAE
(Uniti de coordinstion financiire du MAE)
ZAGROP      -      Agro-Pastoral Action Area
(Zone d'actions agro-pastorales)
ZIC         -      Wildlife Management Area
(Zone d'intirdt cyngtitique



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND RANGELAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT'
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                                              iii
I.  BACKGROUND                                                                                          1
Country Background                                                                          1
The Livestock Sector                                                                        2
Animal Health Situation                                                                     3
Natural Resources and Wildlife Management Area                                              4
Professional Organizations of the Livestock Sector in the CAR                               5
Agro-Pastoral Action Areas                                                                  7
Rural Credit Experience                                                                     7
Results and Lessons of Previous Projects                                                    8
Strategy of the World Bank and Other Donors in the CAR                                     10
II.    THE PROJECT                                                                                     11
Problems and Strategy                                                                      11
Target Group                                                                               12
Objectives                                                                                13
Summary Project Description                                                               13
Detailed Project Description                                                               15
A. Strengthening of the Institutional Framework                                            15
B. Development Support Activities                                                          17
Rangeland Management                                                            17
Animal Health                                                                   18
Grassroots Capacity Development                                                 18
Financing of Herding Activities                                                 19
Technical Support                                                               19
Institutional Support                                                          20
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                                            21
General Framework                                                                        21
The Inter-Professional Coordination Committee of FIDE                                    22
Financial Coordination Unit                                                              23
National Livestock Development Agency                                                    23
National Federation of Herders                                                           23
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal performed by Messrs Noel Chabouf (Mission Leader), Maurice
Asseo (administrative reform and economic analysis), Max Bordes (extension), Claude Brun (roads), Philippe
Chardonnet (natural resources), Pierre de Compraignac (mutual credit), Jean-Roch Gaillet (animal health and
training), Boubacar Hassane (rangeland management), Pierre Laluyaux (financial analysis), T. Mpoy-Kamulayi (land
legislation) and Jap Reijmerink (institutional matters). Mr. Cornelis de Haan is the chief advisor and Mr. Laurent
Msellati is the Peer Reviewer for this Credit. Messrs Th6odore Nkodo and Olivier Lafourcade are the Division Chief
and Department Director, respectively.



- jj -
Herding and Mixed Farming Interest Groups                                  24
Mutual Savings and Loan System; Herd Rebuilding                            24
Establishment of Agro-Pastoral Development Areas                           25
Animal Husbandry Extension Service                                         26
Action Studies                                                             26
Grassroots Capacity Development                                            27
Small Livestock Activities in Wildlife Management Area                     27
Project Monitoring and Evaluation                                          27
Implementation Schedule                                                    28
Technical Assistance                                                       28
IV.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING                                                        29
Cost Estimates                                                             29
Financing                                                                  30
Project Preparation Fund                                                   31
Procurement                                                                31
Disbursement                                                               33
Accounting and Auditing                                                    34
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                                                   34
Markets, Consumption and Prices                                            34
Economic and Financial Impact                                              35
Environmental Impact                                                       37
Social Impact                                                              38
Risks                                                                      38
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                                                     39
ANNEXES
1.    Target Group
2.    Livestock Development Policy Letter (in French)
3.    Project Organization
4.    The Interprofessional Development Fund
5.    Establishment of ZAGROPs (in French)
6.     Mutualistic Credit (in French)
7.     Organization of ANDE (in French)
8.    Project Costs
9.    Environmental Impact Assessment - Mitigation measures (in French)
MAP



- Ill -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND RANGELAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Central African Republic
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Amount:             SDR 11.5 million (US$ 16.6 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with 40 year maturity and a 10 year grace period
Financinu Plan:
US$ million
IDA                         16.63             51.2
IFAD                        4.92              15.2
French Aid                  3.75              11.6
EDF                         5.10              15.7
Beneficiaries               0.43              1.3
FIDE                        1.62              5.0
TOTAL                      32.45             100.0
Economic Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Poverty Category:    Program of Targeted Interventions. All of the members of the target group of
the project have a per capita income below the average of the country, and 40% of them have an income
below half that average. Many project components provide services and infrastructure particularly
targeted to the poorest herders, such as (a) assistance to rebuild depleted herds; (b) mutualistic credit to
meet short term needs (which is more useful for the poorer herders); (c) crop extension services for
herders forced to diversify into agriculture; (d) the reform of the FNEC which would give a greater say
to its grassroots members; and (e) increased land tenure security, the lack of which hurts mostly the
poore.' herders.
Memorandum of the President: Report No. P6355-CA
MM: No. IBRD 25650






CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND RANGELAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
Country Background
1.01   The Central African Republic (CAR) is a landlocked country of 623,000 km2, with a population
estimated at about 3.1 million. The CAR's per capita GDP averaged $350 during the period of 1990 to
1992, slightly above the average for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) ($331). The primary sector, including
agriculture, forestry and fisheries, is the mainstay of the economy, accounting for about 40 percent of
GDP and estimated to provide employment for about 80 of the active population. The devaluation of the
CFA franc in January 1994 has greatly reduced the dollar value of the GDP.' Mining, manufacturing
and utilities account for 16 percent, while services represent 44 percent of GDP. Labor productivity is
generally low as a result of a weak human capital base, particularly in agriculture, where it has not
improved over the last thirty years. Life expectancy at birth, 49 years, is about average for SSA. The
adult literacy rate (40 percent) primary and secondary school enrolment ratios (60 percent and 11 percent,
respectively) and health indicators are all below average for SSA. The CAR's economy declined severely
in the late 1970s and early 1980s as a result of inappropriate government policies. Agricultural
production suffered from falling domestic and world prices, excessive state intervention in virtually all
economic activities, an oversized civil service and inefficient rural development agencies, and rapidly
deterioratfing services and infrastructure. Efforts to promote economic recovery and restore macro-
economic balances began in 1982. They were supported by three IMF Stand-by arrangements and a three
year Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement agreed in 1987. The Bank has
supported the economic reform program with three structural adjustment credits and a cotton sector
adjustment credit, totaling $130 million. Other donors have also provided substantial financial assistance.
These programs did not lead, however, to a recovery of economic growth. GDP growth averaged 1.1
percent per year from 1986 to 1990 and dropped by an average 1.5 percent per year between 1990 and
1993. This poor economic performance is explained by the Government's weak implementation capacity,
bureaucratic inertia, external shocks, loss of competitiveness due to the overvaluation of the CFA Franc
and social and political tensions.
1.02  In October 1993, the CAR elected a new president and a new parliament through a democratic
process. This ended a long period of political and social difficulties which had been major factors behind
the CAR's poor economic performance. The new Government has stated that it is committed to
implementing the measures necessary for a resumption of growth. This will not be easy considering the
weak state of the health and education sectors and the substantial internal and external arrears which have
accumulated. As a first step, the Government, together with its partners in the West and Central Africa
Monetary Unions, agreed to the devaluation of the CFA Franc on January 12, 1994. The new incentive
framework provided by the devaluation, combined with the expected growth in savings and recovery in
investment, should lead over time to new job opportunities and real wage gains. To consolidate the gains
of the devaluation, the authorities have decided to prepare and introduce, in cooperation with the
International Monetary Fund and the Bank, a three-year program of structural and financial adjustmnent,
continuing and consolidating key structural measures already introduced under earlier adjustment
programs. Substantial progress has been made in civil service reform. Progress in preparing, financing
I     Concerning the other macroeconomic aspects, see 'Central African Republic Country Brief,' June 1993.



- 2 -
and carrying out a three-year rolling public investment program has been satisfactory. The Government
has enacted legislation liberalizing real estate transactions, trade and price regimes. It has also laid the
foundation for the reform of the health and education sectors and undertaken a program to increase its
capacity to protect and sustainably manage forest and wildlife resources. The orderly implementation of
these programs and the restoration of conditions for lasting economic growth will require major domestic
adjustments and stepped-up external assistance.
The Livestock Sector
1.03   The agricultural sector forms the base of the economy of the CAR. In marked contrast to the
rest of Western Africa and in particular of the Sahel, the CAR possesses relatively abundant natural
resources in a region that is still sparsely populated (2.9 million people in an area of 623,000 km2, giving
a density of less than 5 per km2, concentrated in the urban centers and along the few rural roads). With
a favorable climate and adequate soils, agriculture is based on small farm units of about 2 ha, usually
growing a wide variety of crops, but technology remains essentially underdeveloped, and yields are very
low. The country's landlocked position and high transport costs reduce CAR's competitiveness for crop
exports. Crop production, utilizing only one percent of the country's area, mostly along the few roads,
is complemented by the products of hunting, fishing and gathering, activities on which farmers spend a
lot of time. Food production is predominantly for subsistence, only 30 percent being exchanged or
marketed; barter is common between farmers and herders. Livestock production is generally not
integrated into crop farming systems, and is mostly in the hands of migratory herders. Livestock
contributes one third of agricultural value added--as much as food crops. It is a cornerstone of the
monetarized segment of the national economy and accounts for a large share of foreign exchange receipts.
The cattle herd is estimated at 2.4 million head, against 1.1 million in 1980 and 1.5 million in 1988.
This makes the livestock sector, which benefits from a good organization of the herders, a major focus
of hope for growth of the CAR's landlocked economy, despite a fall in regional and local meat demand
in recent years and a consequent sharp drop in prices, of some 20-40 percent, depending on the region,
a trend which appears to be on the reverse following the devaluation. Thanks to increasing control of
trypanosomiasis--the major constraint on livestock expansion--available grazing land is estimated at about
half the area of the country. Grazing pressure averages about 15 percent of the carrying capacity, with
wide differences between regions. Some areas on the Cameroon border have already been overgrazed
and abandoned. Elsewhere, animal density decreases as one moves eastward.
1.04   Cattle herding is carried on in the CAR mainly by some 25,000 families, of which about 20,000
are allochthonous (essentially Bororo Peuhl) transhumant herding families attracted to the region for the
past 30 years or so by its resources and for the past 10 years by the availability of veterinary services.
Most herds have between 50 and 200 heads, though some herders may own up to 1,000 animals.
Transhumance involves dry-season movements of 200 to 300 km south and east. Herders are found more
or less all over the CAR except in the main part of the Wildlife Management Area (Zone d'inttr&
cyn1g6tique--ZIC), which covers the eastern third of the country, and are especially concentrated in the
western quadrant and in major centers around Bossangoa and Bambari in the central region. Chadian and
Sudanese herders migrate during the dry season into the Birao region in the north-east. Like most
traditional African herders, those in the CAR possess large productive capital in the form of livestock,
and the numbers marketed generate significant monetary transactions.2 However, although the numerical
yield of the herds is relatively low, substantial levies, in kind or in cash, have been made on the cattle
2      About $200 net per capita per year ($150 for the poorest herders), prior to the January 1994 devaluation. These
figures exclude home consumption of milk and small-livestock meat. Other food items, which all have to be
bought, absorb about 60 percent of money income. Because of the strong correlation between family size and
herd size, per capita income varies less then herd size.



under legitimate or arbitrary pressure by the religious, traditional and administrative authorities. Recent
studies show that for these reasons, aggravated by the fall in meat prices and the rise in input prices and
the general cost of living, nearly half the herders are currently suffering capital depletion, with marked
repercussions on their way of life and standard of living. Among the poorest herders, this is leading
gradually to total depletion of their herds. More than half of all herder families engage in subsistence
farming; the proportion ranges from 79 percent of families with one to five head of cattle per family
member to 10 percent of those with over 300 head.
1.05   Until 1980, the Government had no clear livestock policy or strategy. Since then, and with IDA
involvement, policy has developed in favor of the traditional pastoralist sector rather than any ranching
operations, and CAR authorities have been supportive of earlier and ongoing activities funded by donors
in the livestock sector and the underlying principles and objectives. More recently, they have been
putting increased emphasis on the closer integration of herder and farmer populations and a closer
involvement of the latter in livestock production. Sedentary stock raising is developing, based not only
on former transhumant herders who have been led to diversify their income base by taking up farming
but also on autochthonous herders who are attracted by the financial security represented by the livestock,
who own trypanotolerant cattle herds introduced into the CAR more than 30 years ago or who use cattle
in draft cultivation. Settlement of transhumant herders is a slow and difficult social process. It involves
lifestyle changes that can only be introduced in stages and increasingly closer co-existence with the
sedentary farmer populations, with which the herders find themselves competing for use of local natural
resources. This evolution is still only in its beginnings in the CAR, though the transhumant herders'
average stay in a given locality is lengthening and is already over eight years. As the process of
settlement spreads, the herders' security, once based solely on the ownership of livestock, will
increasingly require that this be backed by guaranteed access to land. An immediate start needs to be
made on implementing the necessary administrative and social measures to accomplish this, with the
participation of the herding, farming and hunting populations concerned, before potential disputes between
these groups begin to materialize or the CAR's natural resources suffer irreversible deterioration.
1.06   The major constraints to be overcome in order to raise the sector's productivity concern animal
health and nutrition. The poorest herders also need help to enable them to settle and to familiarize
themselves with farming practices tailored to local conditions. The women, responsible for milk and
cheese production, also need help in the form of suitable equipment and technology. Finally, transhumant
and sedentary herders lack the capacity to participate in the management of their organizations and human
health services.3
Animal Health Situation
1.07   Thanks to activities financed in part by the Bank under previous projects, rinderpest and bovine
peripneumonia, which have ravaged the CAR in the past, have been eliminated with the exception of a
peripneumonia focus recently detected at Bambari. Annual vaccination, half the cost of which is paid
by the users, has been compulsory since 1983. The vaccines are imported from Cameroon and Chad
under a regional policy supported by the donors to allow the establishment of a small number of high
quality laboratories which could eventually be privatized. Improper livestock levies on the part of the
authorities during these campaigns have appreciably reduced the number of animals vaccinated. In 1990
the campaign reached only one fourth of the livestock, and only 60 percent of the animals have effectively
In the absence of any access to organized services or even drugs, human health expenditure is limited to $5 per
capita per annum. A very fragmentary network serving primary-care needs (notably anti-malaria drugs), part of
which receives American aid (USAID), is the only recourse available to the rural population, including herders; as a
rule, no skilled health-care assistance is available.



been immunized, even though the herders have been informed about the great risks of contagion they run.
The inflow of commercial or transhumant herds from Chad and Sudan constitutes a permanent risk which
calls for action to strengthen border controls. These measures are the subject of a project of the Pan
African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC II), currently being appraised with a view to regional financing by
the European Development Fund (EDF). The campaign would include inter alia biannual vaccination
of the herds located within a "cordon sanitaire" (or quarantine area). Small ruminants plague was
identified for the first time in 1989, then again in 1990, on imported animals. It seems to have been
brought under control by the vaccination campaigns. Bovine brucellosis affects an estimated eight to nine
percent of the herd. Prophylactic measures against this disease are included under the proposed project.
Bovine tuberculosis affects a large proportion of the animals; immediate eradication by means of a
slaughtering and compensation campaign is, however, out of the question under current economic
conditions.
1.08   Currently, the diseases causing the heaviest economic losses continue to be internal, blood and
digestive parasites, diseases for which means of prevention or treatment are available. Verminoses cause
the deaths of an estimated 20 percent of calves, lambs and young goats. Vermifuge sales following
awareness-arousing campaigns account for a significant percentage of the turnover of the drug depots
network set up by the National Herders Federation (FNEC) (para. 1.13). A wide network of dipping
tanks has been installed to combat blood diseases, particularly trypanosomiasis and the hematozooses
(diseases caused by blood parasites), transmitted by ticks, but the cost of the treatments, which is entirely
borne by the herders, is a major constraint on their use, especially since the fall in livestock prices.
Combating glossina with the help of traps placed near the watering points by the herders has been tested
successfully under the National Livestock Project (NLP, para. 1.23) and justifies optimism concerning
the use of economic and non-polluting methods resulting from applied research. This approach could be
usefully supplemented by the use of topical (pour on) insecticides. Added to these diseases, there is a
risk of introduction of East Coast fever, which is so far unknown in Central and Western Africa but could
penetrate there in the absence of effective border control.
Natural Resources and Wildlife Management Area
1.09   Herding areas.  The CAR's humid savannas represent the last potential grazing land still
unoccupied in Central Africa. Nevertheless, despite abundant high-quality rainy-season forage, the
animals' nutritional status is characterized by a protein deficit in the dry season which slows their growth.
The seasonal variations in nutritional value of the grazing in the moist tropical zone necessitate action
designed to maintain a botanic equilibrium favorable to herding by (a) stimulating regrowth of forage in
the dry season, and (b) keeping down brush encroachment. The tool used for this purpose is burning,
which also helps control parasite proliferation. Although the relevant rational management techniques
are now well established, their application under the previous projects has met with only moderate success
for lack of continuity, of adequate land tenure security and of in-depth consultation and agreement with
the other users of the land (farmers and hunters). Thanks to the rich orographic system, water resources
are not in short supply except, periodically, in the northern part of the country. Dams and bore-holes
will be built under the project to remedy the problem.
1.10   Eastern wildlife management area. The determination to conserve the resources of one of Central
Africa's last great natural savanna ecosystems still intact, and the need to set up a buffer zone against East
Coast fever, call for measures to keep herding activities in eastern CAR to the west of the forestry and
hunting zones (ZIC). The CAR's ZIC covers the eastern third of the country, along the Sudan border.
It includes not only significant remains of wildlife and their habitats but also autochthonous populations
whose farming and hunting way of life is bound up with their environment. The ZIC includes seven
wildlife reserves, three national parks (including a classified biosphere reserve), an "integral" reserve and



a "special" reserve. The remainder is divided into hunting sections which the Government rents to
hunting companies under conventional regulations which are relatively well applied. The number of these
companies is declining, and some of those still registered are now practically inactive owing partly to lack
of safety and to poaching. The zone is exposed to pressure from three directions: from foreign poachers
coming from the east, from transhumant herders migrating sporadically on its western boundaries, and
from commercial hunters supplying meat markets. This situation cannot continue without irremediable
damage to the region's fauna resources. Wildlife protection, the subject of EDF-financed projects, has
been limited so far to anti-poaching measures which have, however, failed to achieve the expected results
owing to lack of interest on the part of the local population or of support by the authorities and to poor
knowledge of the region's human and physical environment. French Aid proposes to launch a project
which will be aimed, with the support of the public forces, inter alia at limiting incursions by poachers
from neighboring countries. The departure of the transhumant herds and the general decline in the level
of living could boost hunting pressure on the fauna to make up for the meat deficit.
Professional Organizations of the Livestock Sector in the CAR
1.11   The CAR's livestock sector is organized around numerous grassroots groups and three
professional institutions, of herders, butchers and traders, established under private law but placed under
the supervisory jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE) (formerly the Ministry
of Rural Development). The Herders Federation (FNEC) is the oldest and largest of these institutions.
Administrative and technical support by the MAE is provided through the National Livestock
Development Agency (ANDE).
1.12   Under the previous project (NLP), grassroots structuring of the sector was undertaken by setting
up Herding Interest Groups (GIP) and Mixed Farming Interest Groups (GIAP). Between 1987 and 1992,
172 groups were set up with a total membership of 4,000, of which 45 were organized into 12 local
federations (FELGIP). All these groups are supplied with inputs through the FNEC. Despite the
statutory link between the groups and the FNEC, the two have evolved separately up to now. The
members of the grassroots groups are not necessarily all contributing members of the FNEC, and vice
versa.
1.13   FNEC. The FNEC is a non-profit private sector organization established nearly 20 years ago
with an economic purpose: to ensure the supply of veterinary and animal husbandry inputs to traditional
herders and, later, to set up and manage 58 livestock markets built with EDF financing. It was originally
based on the traditional structures of the transhumant populations. Since then its role has evolved toward
activities concerned with structuring of the herders community and professional representation at the
national level. The number of FNEC's contributing members varies from year to year around an average
of 6,000, comprising traditional cattle herders and representatives of other livestock systems (share
herders and small-ruminant and poultry raisers). The FNEC's strength lies in the fact that it has grown
out of the herders community that it serves and in the organization of input distribution, the first of its
kind in Western Africa. Its main weakness stems from the lack of grassroots representation in its
management, since many of its council's positions have been given ex officio to traditional chiefs and its
chairman was, until recently, the Minister of Agriculture. The FNEC's statutes have been under joint
discussion for the past two years by Federation officials, government representatives and donors with a
view to securing growing involvement of the GIPs and GIAPs in the running of the FNEC and
guaranteeing the latter's professional, economic and non-political character. A round of recent decisions,
not yet complete, has reduced the--often improper--role of government in the FNEC's Management
Board. The FNEC has a staff of 155, comprising 36 secretariat staff, 91 in Input Supply, and 28 in
Grassroots Capacity Development. In addition, the FNEC uses 80 local representatives appointed by its
Management Board to collect membership contributions and in some cases market fees, who are



- 6 -
remunerated by a bonus on the amounts collected. The number and remuneration of the FNEC's staff,
particularly of its General Secretariat and Management Board, appreciably exceed its normal needs. This
has sparked criticism by the donors as well as by its local partners.
1.14   Between 1987 and 1991 FNEC's receipts from (nonprofit) drug and feed sales rose from CFAF
404 million to 629 million (gross turnover), its contribution receipts from CFAF 53 to 70 million and
its market and inspection fees from about CFAF 100 million to 236 million. Input distribution, mainly
veterinary drugs, which has been privatized in the CAR since 1983, is based on a cooperative type of
approach, with a central import office supplying a network of 23 regional depots, suitably distributed in
the grazing areas. The FNEC does not have a monopoly in this field and is beginning to face competition
from a number of importers of veterinary products. FNEC's customers are the entire herding population.
The GIPs receive a rebate of about 15 percent on input purchases which is allocated to their own budget.
The prices charged are based on commercial charges except for depreciation of the buildings and vehicles
financed by the donors at the outset. The financial results, initially positive, have recently begun to
deteriorate owing to an increase in overheads without any matching increase in turnover (about CFAF
500 million in 1992): new sale points have been slow to reach an adequate volume of business while
FNEC's central office staff has been increasing.
1.15   Other professional organizations of the sector. The livestock professional organizations further
comprise the National Association of Butchers (ANBC), which dates from 1988, and the Association of
Livestock Traders (ACCB), established in 1991. Both of these result from the recent formal structuring,
under strong MAE supervision, of former corporate organizations. However, the ACCB and ANBC are
practically unknown outside Bangui: the ACCB's membership comprises only one fourth of the city's
licensed market traders and that of the ANBC only about 10 percent of its butchers. Bangui's two
slaughterhouses are currently run by a state enterprise, the Slaughterhouse Operation and Management
Company (Socigt6 d'Exploitation et de Gestion des Abattoirs--SEGA), which handles part of meat supply
to the retailers in the urban area. SEGA is also responsible, in theory, for supervising slaughterhouses
in the secondary cities. The ANBC's resources, of the order of CFAF 60 million a year, derive from
the fee charged for driving animals from the Bangui livestock market to the slaughterhouse. The ACCB's
resources derive entirely from membership contributions.
1.16   ANDE. Technical and administrative supervision of the livestock sector is in the hands of
ANDE, which is responsible for the inspection of animal products, quarantine, and animal husbandry
extension services. The Agency was set up in 1989 to replace a Ministry of Rural Development livestock
department whose inefficiency had hindered implementation of the first donor-financed livestock
development project. This reorganization was accompanied by a reduction in staff from 800 to 250,
mainly by attrition, redistribution of field agents and upgrading of their training. It also led to better
knowledge of the sector and more accurate targeting of research and animal health activities. Despite the
relatively large resources devoted to demonstration and extension operations in various parts of the
country, these have had only a limited impact. This is due partly to the priority given by the 150 field
agents to animal health and hygiene inspection activities over extension and partly to poor matching of
the extension topics to the herders' needs in some areas. ANDE's structure comprises a General
Directorate, three Regional Directorates (East, Center and West), and three Directorates: Animal
Production (DPA), Animal Health and Applied Research (DSARA), and Administration and Finance.
ANDE has furnished active support to FNEC in the areas of technical consultation, grassroots capacity
development, and training of herders in basic animal health. ANDE's main weakness stems from its lack
of adequate financial resources and the confusion observed between animal health and animal production
extension activities.



1.17   Livestock Development Fund. A Livestock Development Fund (FDE) was set up in 1989 to
finance durable continuation of essential animal husbandry and veterinary activities (epidemiological
monitoring, compulsory vaccination campaigns and assistance with management of the sector) and
ANDE's recurrent costs, excluding wages and salaries, covered by the budget, in view of the prospective
cessation of external financing. The FDE is unique in its kind in Africa, in so far as, contrary to most
development funds established for various sectors, it is (a) exclusively financed through user fees paid
by herders and traders rather than through fiscal or para-fiscal levies; and (b) collected by an organization
of the profession itself. So far, the FDE has been funded by the allocation of 50 percent of the cattle
market and ANDE quarantine inspection fees, both collected by FNEC agents, net of collection costs,
i.e. about CFAF 80 million a year, which have ensured the continuity of minimal ANDE activities when
donor funds were no longer available. The deterioration of the economic and social environment of the
CAR during the last few years has resulted in a gradual decrease in the share of fees actually transferred
and, thus, in the amounts transferred, as well as in longer delays in depositing the receipts into the fund.
Agro-Pastoral Action Areas
1.18   The Agro-Pastoral Action Areas (ZAGROP) were instituted by an ordinance of September 15,
1986, under which their establishment is subject to a decree by the Council of Ministers. Their purpose
was to eliminate the causes of rangeland deterioration and initiate a process of settlement of herders,
organized into GIPs, in clearly defined areas, where they would enjoy land-tenure security and
appropriate services. Two ZAGROPs, of about 40,000 ha each, have been officially set up so far and
a third is operating unofficially.  All three have resulted in protected access to and disciplined
management of land under a schedule of conditions, drawn up by the Administration, and budget specific
to each ZAGROP and, as a whole, in improved livestock productivity. They have also led to increased
trade flows and closer social relations between herders and farmers. The administrative framework of
the ZAGROPs is that of "herder communes," since converted into geographic communes. The procedure
for establishing a ZAGROP is cumbersome: study by the MAE, followed by inter-ministerial discussion
and agreement, examination by the National Commission and the Council of Ministers, and finally
signature by the President. The current legal instruments defining the rights and purposes of the
ZAGROPs limit them exclusively to herders. They thus do not allow extending these objectives to the
entire population of the area; as a result, the governmnent has been reluctant to proceed to set up the five
other ZAGROPS envisaged under the previous project, even though their technical documentation is
ready. In future the ZAGROPs will have to aim at meeting the needs of (a) peaceful co-existence and
expansion of trade relations between herders and farmers within a territory whose natural resources would
be subject to (i) a system of clearly defined zoning and assignment; (ii) land management discipline in
accordance with a pre-established schedule of conditions; and (iii) concerted development activities; and
(b) provision of social services and production assistance to both transhumant herders, for whom the
ZAGROPS would constitute a rear base, and sedentary farmers and mixed farmers (para. 2.16 and 2.17).
Rural Credit Experience
1.19   The great majority of the agricultural producers and traders of the vast and sparsely populated
rural areas have no access to bank credit. The CAR currently has three commercial banks in operation,
while four others are in liquidation. The first three together possess only two branch offices outside the
capital city, one in Bouar, the CAR's second largest city, and the other in the diamond-mining center of
Berberati. These two branches are said to be running at a loss and it is unlikely, in the short or medium
term, that they will expand their activities in the rural areas or that the Government, though it is aware
of the rural populations' financial services needs, will be in a position to remedy this deficiency. Outside
the cotton sector, which receives targeted financial support, the small farmers and herders are unable to
offer security acceptable to a bank. The other, more or less formal, financing systems are very small



- 8 -
and are implemented under development or NGO projects. The Food Crop Savanna Development Project
of IFAD, administered by the Bank, has revealed the excessive cost of setting up and managing small,
geographically dispersed loan units and the usefulness of eventually combining the management of various
rural credit operations under a single management agency. Three entities that could potentially operate
among CAR herders are American NGO Volunteers in Technical Assistance (VITA), which currently
operates in urban areas; the International Mutual Credit Center (Centre International de Credit Mutuel--
CICM), financed by French Aid, and the recently created Morocco-Central African People's Bank
(Banque Populaire Marocco-Centrafricaine), which has shown qualified interest in favor of lending to
the Peuhl herders, motivated by religious affinity and the relatively high volume of trade realized by this
community. This bank's interest would be limited to cattle trading and the large herders located near the
major centers, where the bank would open a branch office. In 1993, the CICM began implementing a
pilot project, financed by French Aid, to establish mutual savings banks (caisses mutuelles). The pilot
phase provides for the establishment of twelve mutual savings banks over a period of three years: six
in and around Bangui, three in the M'Baiki area and three in the Berberati area. The first was opened
early in February 1994 and met with a higher than expected response by savers. Five others are
scheduled to open very soon.
1.20   Saving is rare and discreet among herders. The average saving capacity of potential members
of a mutual savings bank was estimated, following a survey by ANDE in 1990, before the devaluation
of the CFA Franc, at about CFA franc 25,000 a year per member head of family. The average credit
requirements comprise (a) social-expenditure loans (day-to-day needs, consumption during transhumance
periods, health: CFA franc 20,000 over three months) or cash-flow needs (veterinary and agricultural
product purchases: CFA franc 20,000 over six months), i.e. about CFA franc 40,000 a year, for one
member out of two; and (b) individual investment loans, of the order of CFA franc 220,000 to 250,000
over a period of six to seven years, for 10 to 20 percent of members. These figures need to be increased
by about 40 percent to take account of the probable impact of devaluation.
Results and Lessons of Previous Proiects
1.21   A variety of livestock-sector activities have been undertaken in the CAR over the past 25 years.
Two of these were financed by IDA and other donors: the Western Livestock Development Project
(Credit 894-CA) and the National Livestock Development Project (PNDE) (Credit 1681-CA). Two other
projects were financed by EDF. The first, the North Region Development Project (NRDP), was
completed in 1993. The second, approved on December 15, 1993, has not yet been started. In addition,
since 1990 the Bank has been financing a Natural Resources Management Project (PARN) relating mainly
to the western part of the CAR, and an Agricultural Services Development Project (PAIA) which became
effective in August 1993.
1.22   Western Livestock Development Proiect. This project was approved in 1981 by the African
Development Fund, IFAD and IDA, and completed in 1986. It was effective in controlling rinderpest,
holding mortality to under one percent in the CAR, against 5 to 15 percent at the time in neighboring
countries. This project, like the first EDF project, financed a provincial diagnostic laboratory whose
usefulness fell sharply with the disappearance of the major epizootic diseases. In light of their mediocre
results in the areas of extension and curative care, the two projects were modified in 1982 and the
herders' association of that time took over responsibility for the distribution of veterinary drugs; the
project was unable, however, to tackle the livestock sector's structural weaknesses owing to lack of
training among herders and officials, policy shortcomings and absence of rangeland management. These



- 9 -
areas were dealt with in the following project. A recent Performance Audit Report4 of the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) of the Bank has confirmed these observations and called attention on
difficulties which arose from the joint financing of the project and the lack of preliminary sociological
studies. The audit concluded that herders could properly administer animal drugs, better even than field
agents, and estimated the project's internal rate of return at about 36 percent.
1.23   National Livestock Development Project. This project was implemented between 1988 and 1992
with the joint support of French Aid, EDF, IFAD and IDA. Its objectives were to: (a) boost FNEC's
capacity in the areas of input distribution and herder training and organization; (b) strengthen the
livestock research and extension services; (c) rehabilitate service and access tracks, and (d) strengthen
the capabilities of the project management unit. It was also to expand the activities previously undertaken
in the west by the previous project to the CAR's central region. The objectives of the PNDE were
largely accomplished, with an internal rate of return estimated at about 19 percent. Delays occurred in
setting up the ZAGROPs, only two of the intended seven being fully in place by the end of the project;
these did, however, demonstrate the ZAGROPs' potential viability (para. 1.18). Input distribution is
taking place efficiently, and grassroots organization through the setting up of 172 GIPs is proceeding
correctly, in line with the targets as revised during the mid-term review. The rural infrastructure
objectives (roads, stores, livestock watering facilities) were achieved; however, provision still needs to
be made for major maintenance needs. Experimentation and monitoring and surveillance systems were
set up, though with some delay. Some experience of rangeland and pasture management was acquired
which could be extended to larger areas. The PNDE also demonstrated the need for closer attention to
(i) small ruminant and poultry raising activities; (ii) farming-herding operations; (iii) education needs and
health problems of transhumant herders, and (iv) financial management of the private and public
livestock-sector entities.
1.24   The goals of reducing ANDE's labor force and training the remaining staff were duly achieved.
Gaps remain to be filled, however, with respect to the financial and accounting management capacity and
systems of ANDE and FNEC (especially of the Inputs Department). The performance of the management
staff was mediocre, particularly toward the end of the project, during a prolonged absence of ANDE's
Director General. ANDE's headquarters services, which had been intended to act in a support capacity,
took on considerable importance, to the detriment of the field services and of head office management
capability. FDE saw its cumulative reserves, of the order of CFA franc 400 million, drawn down partly
to make up for ANDE's FY 1992 deficit and partly to allow the main activities to be continued in 1993.
Ill feeling developed between FNEC's Management Board and the herders, the latter complaining they
had no say in the chapter and were subjected to ethnic and religious pressures (compulsory payment of
the religious tax or zakat).5 It is noted moreover that the situation of the richest herders has improved
slightly, while the incomes of the others have declined owing to the deterioration of the beef market.
Natural resource management was not mastered satisfactorily. Development of the sector therefore calls
for action to improve management capacities, concentrate ANDE's functions and strengthen the
professional organizations. Extension and grassroots development functions should not be entrusted to
the same unit in order to avoid any confusion between their respective objectives. Special attention needs
to be given to disadvantaged herders and natural resource management.
Joint Performance Audit Report of February 25, 1994. covering three livestock projects, in Niger (Credit 885-NIR), the
CAR (Credit 894-CAR) and Senegal (Credit 1406-SE).
A mission led by an Islamic lawyer, financed by French Aid, highlighted aspects of the procedures used to collect and
allocate zakat receipts in the CAR that conflict with Islamic social objectives. The lawyer informed the herders fully
about this at that time.



- 10-
1.25   The livestock projects carried out in the CAR have always been regarded as examples for the rest
of Africa. Drug distribution by the FNEC has proved to be superior to the parastatal arrangements set
up in Cameroon, Chad and Mauritania. The good results posted in the CAR in the organization of a
traditional livestock sector through the FNEC show an undeniable comparative advantage in relation to
the organization of ranches, the failure of which is now recognized, in Cameroon and Madagascar in
particular.
1.26   North Region Development Project (NRDP). This project, financed by the EDF, related to the
establishment of transit corridors for herds coming from the north, anti-poaching measures, and the
development of the pastoral area around Birao and N'dele, near the northern part of the ZIC. The main
lessons learned from the NRDP are that, in order to retain the populations' trust and active involvement,
(a) the installation of infrastructures and services must be preceded by thorough preparatory work, with
involvement of the local populations and the economic operators (safari companies, traditional hunters);
(b) the anti-poaching measures must be separated entirely from awareness-arousing activities, and (c) the
agreement of the local and central authorities concerning the project objectives and their active support
during implementation are indispensable. The EDF is incorporating these lessons into the design of the
second stage, planned to start towards the end of 1994, in order to secure the involvement of the
populations and administrations concerned.
1.27  IFAD activities in the CAR. IFAD has financed five projects in the CAR. These comprise two
livestock projects in collaboration with the World Bank (the first, for SDR 1.95 million, in 1979, and
the second, for SDR 3.3 million, in 1988), and three crop-farming and rural development projects (the
Ombella M'Poko Rural Development Project, for SDR 3.1 million, in 1984; the Bouca Rural
Development Project, for SDR 7.7 million, in 1989, and the Savanna Food Crops Development Project,
for SDR 8.45 million, in 1991), with total financing of some SDR 24.5 million.
Strategy of the World Bank and Other Donors in the CAR
1.28  In view of the principal macroeconomic constraints on the CAR's development (inadequate tax,
economic and land-tenure policies, human and institutional weaknesses affecting both the private and
public sectors, and unsuitable infrastructure) and the consequent decline in productivity, the objectives
of the Bank's assistance to the CAR, were limited in the Country Assistance Strategy Paper (CAS)
presented to the Board of IDA in May 1992 in conjunction with the Agricultural Services Project (2368-
CA) to a core program focusing on: (a) the development of human resources, with special attention to
the issues of health, education and the role of women; (b) assistance to the farming and livestock sectors,
and (c) strengthening urban infrastructures. These objectives are currently being updated and expanded
to: (i) restore the competitiveness and rekindle the growth of the CAR's private sector; (ii) strengthen the
administration's management capability; (iii) develop human resources and reduce poverty, and (iv)
conserve the environment.
1.29  In accordance with its specific mandate, the IFAD focuses on activities designed to help the most
disadvantaged producers, with particular emphasis on precise tailoring of its support and rural credit
services. Since the 1989 sectoral meeting on rural development between the CAR Government and the
donors recommended the establishment of autonomous producer groups such as the GIPs, IFAD's strategy
assigns special importance to this objective. French cooperation with the CAR has for the last twenty
years given priority to assisting animal production, developing professional organizations in the sector,
and conserving the country's bio-diversity. The EDF's activities in the CAR have focused mainly on
improving the land tenure of the rural populations and on measures to combat, at the regional level, the
major epizootic diseases.



- 11 -
H. THE PROJECT
Problems and Strategy
2.01   The CAR is one of the few countries of Africa that still possess exceptional livestock development
potential, subject to progress in controlling vector-transmitted animal and human diseases and measures
to make up for the dispersion of the population and the lack of qualified management. The potential for
improving the livestock sector in the CAR derives from (a) favorable agrostologic conditions (large
biomass, extensive grazing lands); (b) a largely homogeneous as well as energetic and disciplined herder
population; (c) three professional organizations created under the Government's deregulation and
privatization policy, one of which, the FNEC, has already proved its worth and is capable, given
supplementary support, of taking over wider responsibility from the governmeint for assistance to
productive or commercial activities; (d) the success in alleviating, to some degree, the animal health
constraints, and (e) a more recent development, adjustment of the parity of the CFA franc. These
conditions are not however sufficiently favorable to allow the development of livestock without outside
assistance: (i) the natural capital (forage and water resources, wildlife, forest land) needs to be protected;
(ii) the introduction of cattle from neighboring countries calls for a health control network which the
Government and the herders are currently unable to finance; (iii) the professional organizations are in
immediate need of assistance to enable them to widen their sphere of activity; (iv) the management
capacity of the public and private institutions needs to be strengthened in order to consolidate the process
of government withdrawal from and privatization of livestock services, and (v) the process of economic
and social integration of the migrant Bororo Peuhls into the national mainstream, which began with
independence, must be pursued harmoniously in the herding areas. This latter aspect calls for assistance
in developing stock raising (through incentive measures in the herding areas and deterrent measures in
the hunting areas) addressed to the entire rural population, including hunters and farmers for whom stock
raising is a supplementary activity.
2.02   Urban beef consumption has been fairly large until now, while livestock exports, for which
Nigeria constitutes a major outlet, have been limited by the exchange rate between the naira and the CFA
franc. The cumulative effects of the recent devaluation--lower domestic meat consumption, reduced
imports on the hoof from Sudan, and potential resumption of exports to Nigeria--could cancel each other
out. The current market constraints call for particular attention to the situation of the poorest herders.
The capital depletion they have suffered makes it necessary to provide financial resources to rebuild their
herds. The financial situation of the transhumant herders generally tends to fluctuate along their life
cycle, with the result that at any given moment some of them are short of cash while others have cash
available and do not turn it to good use. As a result, herders have to seek credit where they can,
generally from the GIPs, which supply them with inputs. This creates confusion between the GIPs'
commercial and social functions, to the detriment of stringent management. A mutual savings and loan
(mutual credit) system--even an embryonic one--set up under the proposed project would help the herders
and the women (performing milk processing or marketing activities) to cope with more or less temporary
difficulties and allow the GIPs to separate their commercial accounts from their financial or social
activities. Mutual credit would need to be supplemented in due course by assistance to support herd
replenishment and settlement of the most disadvantaged herders.
2.03   Although the available estimates refer to a potential to multiply by three the current number of
cattle, a start needs to be made now, having regard to the effects noted for more than half a century in
Cameroon and Cote d'Ivoire and more than 30 years in the western CAR, on phased application of the
principles of concerted management and conservation of the natural savannas by their various users



- 12 -
(herders, farmers and hunters), taking into account ecological6 and economic imperatives, in order to
avoid their degradation and obviate the development of disputes concerning their use. Protection and
optimum utilization of natural resources is essential to long-term maintenance of the CAR's forage and
fauna capital. It is to be feared that lack of land-tenure security will have a negative impact on rangeland
conservation since the use of farming techniques that conserve natural resources calls for investments by
the herders, notably in the form of labor, which they are not prepared to incur unless they are assured
that the long-term  fruits of their efforts will accrue to themselves and their descendants.  The
establishment of ZAGROPs, begun under the previous project, should be expanded. Agreements between
the local populations concerned, supported by better mastery of the land-tenure problem, could lead to:
(a) more rational savanna management, through better control of burning and improved grazing practices;
(b) bringing Laos grass under control; and (c) greater social cohesion among the three types of land users:
farmers, hunters and herders.7 There is a need also to establish similar pastoral areas on the edges of
the hunting and protected areas so as to offer an alternative to the straying of herds outside the area
assigned to them. The activities conducted under the project (extension, grassroots capacity development,
land-tenure legislation, institutional strengthening) will grow out of experience under the previous projects
and reflect the priorities identified in (i) the 1991 "White Paper on the Livestock Sector in the CAR";
(ii) the project preparation, entrusted by the Government to a consulting firm (BDPA-SCETAGRI) and
financed by a Project Preparation Fund (PPF); and (iii) the numerous meetings with the beneficiaries
during the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project. At the appraisal stage alone, some 1500
herders and villagers participated in some thirty village-level meetings to discuss the project's objectives
and details. The project would be national in scope; would be implemented under a shared-responsibility
arrangement between the Government and the professional organizations concerned; would give rise to
concerted financing by all the sector donors, supplementing the resources raised by the sector itself, and
finally, would reflect a sectoral policy, developed under the previous projects, which is the subject of an
up-front administrative and political reform component (paras. 2.12 through 2.18).
Target Group
2.04   The project would focus its support, through their professional organizations, on all herders and
agro-pastoralists who obtain the bulk of their income from herding,8 which together would include about
25,000 households. With an average household size of 10.8 persons, this would add up to about 270,000
persons, or about nine percent of the CAR population. The method of inheritance calls for the herd to
be shared out among all sons of a herder. The result is that all the households have incomes below the
average GDP per capita, and it can be reckoned that 40 percent of them are below a poverty level of 50
percent of theper capita GDP. Within the target group, special emphasis would be given to women and
to poor households. An ongoing program for women's activities would be continued and broadened in
Settlement of the herders with no change in the traditional grazing methods generally leads to bush encroachment
of the rangelands within five to ten years. While this development is unfavorable to the raising of domestic
herbivores, it leads to increased plant biomass, regeneration of botanic facies and, eventually, reforestation. While
the invasion of the ranges and inhabited areas by Laos grass (Chromola@na odorsta) due to settlement is causing
growing concern among CAR herders, its presence is welcomed by crop-farmers for its effect in restoring soil
fertility.
Burning is practiced by all three types of users, generally at different times: the herders for pasture regeneration,
the farmers for replanting, and the hunters to help them track game. The task of resolving the resulting problems
is an urgent one, since the lower the population density, the easier it is to do. It moreover calls for a high
education level. Capacity development services, which in the past have focused on FNEC supervisory staff, will
therefore now need to be targeted to the grassroots population groups.
Farmers who derive most of their income from crop production are already benefitting from other donor-financed
projects.



- 13 -
scope in accordance with the priority needs expressed by participating women. Poor households which
have been obliged to substantially reduce the number of their herds would be assisted in the reconstitution
of a productive herd (Annex 1).
Objectives
2.05   The five-year project's three major objectives will be (a) to raise livestock productivity, by
expanding animal health services; (b) to alleviate poverty among herders, by rebuilding herds of viable
size and broadening their activities to include crop farming; (c) to strengthen the livestock sector's
professional organizations, through the democratization of their operations and the decentralization of the
decision making process, and (d) to ensure the sustainable management of natural resources.
2.06   Raising productivity. Traditional transhumant herding uses mainly two resources, family labor
and the abundant savanna grazing, whose opportunity cost cannot be quantified. The project would aim
primarily at raising the herders' receipts by reducing unit production costs rather than significantly
boosting their livestock numbers. This would be accomplished by raising herd productivity (lowering
mortality and increasing cull rates) through (a) improved control of contagious and parasitic animal
diseases (dissemination of successful pilot operations concerning vermifuging of calves, introduction of
topical insecticides and maintenance of the buffer zone between East African and CAR herds); (b)
strengthened and expanded use of rational pasture management practices, and (c) introduction of feed
supplements such as cotton seed in, inter alia, milk and cheese production, activities essentially
performed by women. Incremental milk production is more difficult to measure, however, owing to the
informal nature of the marketing circuits.
2.07   Alleviating noverty. The project includes activities which would be especially beneficial to the
poorest herders, such as (a) herd rebuilding assistance to some 1,850 households owning less than five
cattle per household member; (b) mutual credit tied to the search for new borrower strategies; (c)
agricultural extension services to herders compelled to grow food crops, whose situation does not allow
them to return to subsistence agriculture based exclusively on livestock, and (d) assistance targeted more
particularly to women (see in particular paras. 2.24 and 3.10).
2.08   Stengthening the professsional organizations of the sector. The purpose of the creation of a
herder organization has been, from the beginning, to help this segment of the population to be better
integrated in the economic and political life of the country. The FNEC originally relied on the traditional
social structures of the herders and on the technical support of the administration. The education and
capacity-building efforts of previous projects now make it possible, within the wider context of
democratization of the country, to further empower the grassroots herders in the management of the
FNEC, concommitant with a withdrawal of the Ministry of Agriculture and of the traditional chiefs from
the decision-making process within the organization. New statutes approved in August 1994 reflect those
changes and ensure the decentralization of the executive structures of FNEC. The strengthening of
ACCB and ANBC, which are still at an early stage of their development would be ensured under the
project.
2.09   Protection of natural resources. The establishment of ZAGROPs, the main thrust of the project,
will eventually have a major impact on the CAR's natural resources by conserving the savannas and
promoting a gradual increase in rangeland occupation density. Protecting the eastern CAR's natural
resources will depend on supplementary measures within the competence of the MAE and the Ministry
of Water, Forestry, Hunting, Fisheries, Tourism and the Environment (MEF). The effects of MAE
assistance in maintaining the buffer zone would be (a) to discourage herders from settling in the zone and
thereby hinder the transmission of East Coast fever to the central and western African herds, and (b) to



- 14 -
develop, in a sustainable manner (i) sedentary small livestock activities providing an alternative source
of protein to hunting and transhumant herding, and (ii) traditional farming-hunting activities based on the
natural fauna and flora as well as on farming. For its part, the MEF's responsibilities, under a future
project, to be identified under the proposed project, would be to develop hunting-tourism activities as a
means of turning the natural environment to account without altering it and of providing the local people
with a source of income, thereby reducing poaching in one of Africa's last areas rich in wildlife. For
these measures to work it will be necessary to achieve a consensus among the local people to accept
responsibility and interest them in managing the activities (including hunting) authorized in the region.
Summary Project Descridtion
2.10   The proposed project is designed around two main countrywide lines of action:  (a)
implementation of up-front administrative and policy reforms that ratify the intent of the Government and
the parties concerned and provide them with the essential legislative framework and democratic
operational structures for the sector's development, and (b) financial support for a package of
development support activities. It would benefit from PAIA support to the agriculture sector and the
MAE, which it would supplement by helping to make the MAE's policy more coherent, simpler and more
comprehensive.
2.11 Strengthening of the Institutional Framework. The necessary administrative and policy reforms
for the development of the livestock sector are set forth in a "Livestock Development Policy Letter,"
based on the recommendations of the "White Paper," (Annex 2). The following actions have also been
undertaken:
(a)    the Borrower has (i) replaced the FDE by an Inter-Professional Livestock Development
Fund (FIDE), whose statutes define the nature of its resources and the methods and
objectives of their allocation (para. 2.13); (ii) called for services to manage the CAR
rural credit program and set up a durable mutual savings and loan scheme among the
rural population that can be integrated into the mutual financial system currently being
developed in the CAR (para. 2.15); (iii) simplified the land-tenure procedures so as to
facilitate establishment of the ZAGROPs, (amendments to the land use legislation will be
presented to the Parliament in due time) (para. 2.17), and (iv) ensured the peaceful
reorientation of the herders previously transiting through the ZIC to grazing areas west
of the Chinko River (para. 2.18);
(b)    the MAE is assisting in the creation of Herders and Farmers Associations (AEA) as a
prior step to their conversion into ZAGROPs as soon as the pertinent legislation has been
amended, and has prepared new model statutes for the ZAGROPs (para. 2.16); and
(c)    the FNEC has completed the reform of its statutes, which makes it more representative
of the grassroots population and ensures that its management is free from political
pressure (para. 2.19).
2.12   Development support activities. On the basis of the above commitments and reforms, six major
components would be financed:
(a)    rationalizing rangeland management by setting up and administering 21 ZAGROPs,
-preparing agro-pastoral development programs within a recognized land-tenure
framework and implementing methods of combating invasive plants (weed science) (para.
2.20);



- 15 -
(b)    strengthening the animal health services and setting up veterinary checkpoints at the
country's borders (para. 2.22);
(c)    a grassroots capacity development program among herders and their wives to help them
to organize themselves into GIPs or GIAPs and to participate more effectively in setting
FNEC policy (para. 2.23);
(d)    setting up and running a mutual savings and loan scheme (para. 2.24) and a line of
financial assistance for herd rebuilding (para. 2.25);
(e)   technical support to livestock activities, by (i) setting up an animal husbandry extension
service (para. 2.26), and animal production and health action studies (para. 2.27), and
(ii) providing assistance for the propagation of trypanotolerant cattle (para. 2.28) and for
small ruminant husbandry activities in villages within the ZIC (para. 2.29); and
(f)    in order to ensure proper administration of the above activities, (i) training supervisory
staff of the livestock-sector professional agencies and organizations (para. 2.30), and (ii)
direct project administration costs (needed means of transportation and related
incremental operating costs) (para. 2.32).
Detailed Project Description
A. Strengthening of the Institutional Framework
2.13   Inter-Professional Livestock Development Fund (FIDE). A regular and reliable flow of financial
resources is essential to the smooth functioning of the livestock sector institutions and the sustainability
of the proposed project. Management of these resources should involve all concerned organizations rather
than exclusively ANDE, as was the case for the FDE. The FIDE would be established to serve that
purpose (para. 3.02) (Annex 3, on Project Organization, and Annex 4 on FIDE). The FIDE would serve
to finance (a) grassroots capacity development; (b) extension services; (c) the investments in the
ZAGROPs; (d) the establishment and maintenance of livestock markets; (e) a reserve fund to be used for
emergency expenses such as the outbreak of an epizootic disease or to finance limited operations of a pilot
or experimental nature; (f) operating expenditures of ANDE (excluding salaries), and (g) a contribution
to the financing of the reconstitution of herds, in amounts no less than 10 percent of collected fees.
Points (d) and (e) are not among the project's cost components. The Borrower has replaced the FDE by
an Inter-Professional Livestock Development Fund (FIDE). FIDE's statutes and structures, the origin
of its resources (fees, Public Treasury, foreign financing), changes in the methods of collecting the fees
and the arrangements for allocating these resources are set forth in legal instruments agreed on with the
donors during the negotiations and officially enacted. Assurances have been obtained concerning
technical and financial monitoring of the FlIDE along the lines described in para. 3.02. The
appointment of FIDE's director, evidence that the balance of FDE accounts has been formally
transferred to FIDE and the signing of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Borrower
and FIDE would be conditions of Credit effectiveness.
2.14   The latest audit of the FDE has concluded that its funds accumulated during the last few years
have been totally used up, sometimes for expenditures other than operational costs (excluding salaries)
of ANDE. Out of this total, some 215 million CFA francs were used to repay a costly debt to local
banks with donor agreement, some 28 million CFA Francs (or $47,000 at the present exchange rate)
were, in theory, allocated to the construction of a road for which other sources of funding were to be



- 16 -
utilized, and some 4 million CFA Francs (or $6,800 at the present rate) were unduly paid into the State
Treasury. The Government will repay this latter amount to FIDE.
2.15   Mutual credit. A mutual savings and loan scheme would be set up, on a pilot basis, for herders
and mixed farmers (paras. 2.23 and 3.09). It would eventually be run by the beneficiaries themselves.
It could be expanded in stages to include the other rural groups in order to avoid social isolation. The
initial phase of installation of the mutual savings and loan system would comprise awareness-raising and
savings mobilization activities. During the first few years, the scheme would be based exclusively on
financial contributions of its members. These funds, lent at short term and necessarily small in amount,
would enable borrowers to meet unforeseen social or normal cash-flow needs without having to dispose
of part of their livestock under unfavorable selling conditions. The results of the first phase would be
evaluated midway through the project. In the second phase, in light of these results, the mutual credit
activities would be expanded to include medium-term loans to meet members' personal investment needs.
The need and feasibility of refinancing medium-term loans would also be assessed during the mid-term
review. The mutual savings and loan scheme would be set up and supervised by a specialized entity,
preferably one with rural experience in the CAR. This network, independent of but parallel to the GIPs
and FELGIPs, would be so designed as to strengthen the latter's economic function. Assurances have
ben obtained that the pilot mutual scheme would be established by December 31, 1995 and would
be managed by a competent and experienced entity under contractual arrangements satisfactory to
IDA.
2.16   Mana2ement of grazin2 resources. The sound and concerted management of the CAR's pasture
resources requires three prior policy changes: (a) the revision of the concept of the ZAGROPs in order
to allow that their establishment and rules be based on a mutual agreement among all inhabitants of the
area rather than, as was the case until now, on the attribution of exclusive grazing rights by the
Government to herder groups; (b) the simplification and acceleration of the procedures of agreement
among the local populations and of recognition of these agreements by the State in view of providing
targeted services and infrastructure; and (c) the implementation of measures strengthening the guarantee
of access of all users to the local resources. Both the Government and the populations concerned are
aware of the advantages provided by the ZAGROPs for all the categories of population found in their area
(para. 1.18) but have also expressed their keen interest in the proposed modifications to the concept of
the ZAGROPs. MAE has prepared an information document setting forth the new doctrine with respect
to the objectives and implementation of the ZAGROPs and circulated it among all interested herders and
farmers. The draft document was reviewed by the donors and found to be appropriate. In view of the
competition noted with respect to natural resources (salt licks, water points, fire management) between
herding, cropping and hunting, the farmer and hunter groups living in the zone would be formally
integrated into the management of the ZAGROPs. However, changing the law which defines the purpose
and the procedures of the ZAGROPs will require a lengthy field experimentation and monitoring followed
by a legal process leading to enactment by the CAR Parliament (Annex 5, on the Establishment of
ZAGROPs).  It has therefore been agreed among all parties concerned that the establishment of
ZAGROPs would be achieved in two distinct phases. First, the local populations, represented by their
respective interest groups (i.e., GIPs for the herders, GIAPs for the agro-pastoralists and rural interest
groups--GIR--for the farmers) would contractually establish themselves as Herder Farmer Associations
(AEA), this also in already existing ZAGROPs, for the purpose of recognizing their respective rights on
the use of the resources of their lands without privileging one socio-professional category with respect
to another, and of agreeing on management specifications and annual action plans according to which the
land of the AEA would be developed and managed and its resources preserved. The statutes of the AEAs,
recognized by the MAE, are along the lines of the statutes envisaged for future ZAGROPs. This allows
the proposed project investments and services to proceed as planned and in a timely manner and help
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed mode of collaboration between farmers and herders.



- 17 -
Second, once this effectiveness is demonstrated, and within two years after the Credit's effectiveness,
the Borrower would draft the new model statutes and regulations of the ZAGROPs and submit
amendments to the legislation concerning the ZAGROPs to Parliament defining the objectives of the
ZAGROPs and the procedures to be followed for their establishment. After the new legislation is
enacted by Parliament and with the agreement of their membership, the AEAs would be offcially
transformed into ZAGROPs. The new law would define the procedures to be followed by the MAE
and the role of the State Inspectorate in the event of disagreements between ministers and reflecting the
new objectives assigned to the ZAGROPs.
2.17   The official procedures for the establishment of AEAs, first, and ZAGROPs thereafter has at the
same time been made less cumbersome, by allowing these procedures to be carried out through a
ministerial 'arr&t' of the MAE rather than to a Presidential decree in order to shorten the time lapse
between expression of interest by the parties concerned and entry into operation of the ZAGROPs to less
than twelve months. A decree to that effect has been enacted. The land legislation of the CAR has long
been found in need of improvement to better guarantee the rights of the population to access the various
natural resources of the country. Opening the AEAs or ZAGROPs to all professional groups directly
involved in animal production (GIPs, GIAPs, hunters, dealers, women, young people, and so on) would
necessitate allocating rights to the various natural resources of the AEA/ZAGROP lands, including, in
the longer run, land-tenure rights, to the permanent users of those lands, herders as well as farmers and
hunters. The procedure would be simple: it would be based on local usages and give rise to little
expense and administration, limited to that necessary to guarantee possible loans, encourage investment
and promote durability of the activities, and allow the various rights to be passed on to the heirs of the
residents, of diverse socio-professional origins, of the ZAGROPs. The Government would carry out
a legal and sociological study with a view to streamline procedures required to create new
ZAGROPs and to provide land tenure security to herders and farmers established in these zones.
Assurances have been obtained that the study would be carried out by December 31, 1996 and
presented to IIDA for review and comments. The recommendations of the study would be promptly
implemented as agreed upon with the Association. The new regulations would have to resolve the
difficulty of collective management of grazing lands noted in the existing ZAGROPs by allowing a form
of individual ownership that would promote durable investment. The methods developed under the
previous project for identifying and demarcating the zones would be continued.
2.18   Fauna and flora mana2ement. In order to create appropriate conditions for the preservation of
natural resources in the ZIC and for the implementation of future projects focusing on fauna and flora
management, the government, through a specialized consultant, has informed the transhumant herders
currently migrating seasonally into the ZIC that their presence in the zone is illegal and will not be
permitted in the future. The mission has also advised the herders of the transhumance alternatives made
available to them in areas west of the Chinko river, to which the herders have since moved.
2.19   Restructuring of the FNEC. The FNEC's main responsibilities would be (a) input distribution;
(b) grassroots capacity development, and (c) management of livestock markets. Consideration would be
given later to transferring ANDE's extension activities to the FNEC. The initial amendments to the
FNEC's statutes have been amplified so as to (i) ensure majority grassroots representation through local
and regional groups rather than through members designated by FNEC, who are often traditional
authorities; (ii) allow the presence of a representative of the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock with
a veto right limited to decisions which run counter to FNEC's statutes; (iii) widen its sphere of activity
to include sedentary herding, draft cultivation and small livestock raising, and (iv) confirm the FNEC's
non-political character. The FNEC's revised statutes have been enacted after the donors had found them
acceptable. Assurances have been obtained that the FNEC's statutes may not be amended without
prior consultation with IDA.



- 18 -
B.    Development Support Activities
Rangeland management ($10.0 million, 31 percent)
2.20   Integrated management has already been introduced in two ZAGROPs. The prior technical
measures (studies, management plans, mapping, etc.) for setting up three others have also been taken
under the PNDE. The project would finance the establishment of these and an additional 16 ZAGROPs
of about 40,000 ha on average.9 Seven of these ZAGROPs would be located in areas already demarcated
in the western region, five in the eastern region and four in the northwest. Apart from the activities
already carried out in some of the original five ZAGROPs, the project activities would comprise, in all
21 zones: (a) identification, planning and demarcation studies, together with a study of livestock and
human water needs (based on data collected by the PNDE since 1988); (b) construction of three or four
livestock watering points, a small store and, where needed, a water point for human use, within each
perimeter, and the provision of various installations, such as milk storage, processing (cheese dairies) and
marketing facilities; (c) preparation of (i) land rights and land use maps based on satellite images, as the
basis for 1:50,000 working maps, and (ii) annual and multiannual plans for the use of savanna land and
for the corresponding technical services, and (d) pilot use of agronomic methods of combating pasture-
invading plants (for example, Laos grass). The project would finance (i) an air-conditioned forage seed
store; (ii) 15 small dams and their pumps; (iii) 40 bore holes for human use; (iv) the purchase and
processing of satellite images; (v) complementary work to be done on available maps, and acquisition of
cartographic, data processing and office equipment; (vi) six motor-driven and 30 manual sprayers; (vii)
five pick-ups, six motor cycles, six mopeds and 12 bicycles and their renewal; (viii) the corresponding
recurrent costs, and (ix) technical assistance comprising three years of animal production expertise and
two months a year of short-duration assistance.
2.21   The project would also finance the rehabilitation and maintenance of about 400 km of tracks to
open up access to the 21 ZAGROPs, usable by light vehicles and serving as (a) the starting point for the
interior secondary service tracks, and (b) main firebreaks. It would further finance the construction and
maintenance of some 800 km of secondary service tracks within the areas and periodic external
supervision of the works. ANDE would continue to be responsible for maintaining 700 km of roads
opened by the PNDE; the of firebreak trails would be financed directly by the beneficiaries (annex 5).
Animal health ($3.9 million, 12 percent)
2.22   The project would finance (a) training of ANDE staff in health regulatory and control duties and
in the provision of animal health services; (b) means of transportation (12 pick-ups, to be replaced, 55
motor cycles and 108 mopeds), and (c) the equipping of five new control posts on the borders with Chad
(at Moyenne Sido, Markounda, Bemal and Banga-Boumbe) and Cameroon (Ngaoundaye), which would
be set up following a revised subdivision of the area into sectors, which would be done by ANDE before
the works are started in light of the number of livestock in each geographic area.' The Director of
ANDE's Animal Health Department (DSA) would be assisted by a specialist consultant for a period of
five years. The cost of immunization by village vaccination agents against Small Ruminants Plague and
Newcastle disease in poultry would be borne by the owners.
c      The term ZAGROP also covers the areas initially organized into Herders and Farmers Associations lAEAs).
10     A sixth control post could be opened at Birao in addition to the five already planned.



- 19 -
Grassroots capacity development ($4.3 million, 13 percent)
2.23   This component would comprise action to strengthen FNEC's Grassroots Capacity Development
Department (DAM). The DAM would (a) help the existing GIPs to become independent institutions run
by their members, and 120 other groups to organize themselves in a similar way, bringing their total
membership to some 10,000 families, i.e. half the herders; (b) continue to provide adult literacy training
for GIP members, especially women, and train them to run the GIPs; (c) provide training in simple
financial management for GIP and FELGIP members appointed as delegates to FNEC general meetings,
and (d) provide grassroots development services for mutual savings and loan participants and herd
rebuilding beneficiaries. Basic literacy training would be provided at the herder campsites or at ZAGROP
headquarters. The project would finance (i) the salaries of 21 male and 12 female grassroots development
agents, all of them CAR nationals, to be contracted in addition to the existing nine agents (with 11
recruited during the first year), plus training, travel expenses and equipment for all of these; (ii) training,
and accommodation during such training, for the herders and women who are GIP members in
participation in the activities of their grassroots organizations, in the form of two-week sessions (their
transportation would be provided at the cost of the groups), and (iii) the costs of a senior local specialist
responsible for the grassroots development aspects of the mutual savings and loan scheme and of an
expatriate consultant in grassroots development techniques, both for a duration of three years.
Financing of Herding Activities
2.24   Mutual credit ($2.0 million, 6 percent). When fully established, the mutual savings and loan
network would comprise (a) a central office, responsible for training and supervision; (b) 12 regional
mutual savings and loan offices, and (c) up to 85 village funds. Since overall management would be
performed by a services provider already established in the CAR, the supplemental team would comprise
three regional capacity development agents (six at the end of the project), a training instructor and an
accounting inspector, supported by an expatriate volunteer with business or economics training (annex
6). The project would finance the costs of (i) setting up the network (vehicles, a desk-top computer,
furniture and office equipment); (ii) training the network personnel; (iii) the first two years of
operation," and (iv) after the mid-term review has confirmed that the project has got off to a sound
start, rediscount funds making it possible to raise the lending/savings ratio. Once it is clear that the
mutual savings and loan system is well established, an assistance fund to allow the most disadvantaged
herders to have access to credit, financed out of FIDE's local resources, would be set up within the
central savings and loan office.
2.25   Financial support for herd rebuilding ($2.5 million, 8 percent). Some 1,850 small herders who
would like to remain herders but whose herds are not currently of a viable size would need seed money
to acquire up to six 3-years old breeders at a cost of about $720, or a total financing need of $1.4
million. An analysis of the budget of these herders clearly shows that they are unable to pay interest on
any loan for the purchase of cattle. Repayment of principal on a no-interest loan would also be doubtful.
Taking cattle as collateral does not provide much security as animals may disappear because of all kinds
of diseases. For all these reasons, it is highly unlikely that any loan made to small herders would be
reimbursed. In these circumstances, a much simpler and cheaper mechanism is to provide a grant,
despite the moral hazard that may be involved. A system of "passing-on" breeding cattle to other
members of the community, after several years, may lower the moral hazard. An initial contribution by
the beneficiaries fitting the accepted criteria of poverty (para. 2.07), of the order of 10 percent of the cost
Management of the mutual credit system will have to be subsidized for the duration of the project. The
beneficiaries' ability to assume the cost gradually will be studied at the time of the mid-project evaluation.



- 20 -
of the animals to be purchased, would be matched, as proof of group solidarity, by an equivalent grant
by FIDE. The remainder would be provided by the Government on a grant basis and financed out of
Credit funds (para. 4.02).
Technical Support to the Herders
2.26   Extension ($1.7 million, 5 percent). The creation of an animal husbandry extension service
independent of the animal health services represents an innovation. The target group would comprise
herders facing capital depletion, compelled to diversify their activities, and sedentary mixed farmers. The
extension services would cover (a) the introduction of specialized technology for sedentary stock raising
and "technological packages," already tested at the pilot level, for feed supplementation, cattle fattening
and expansion of draft cultivation; (b) improved control of internal parasites of animals; (c) animal
product processing; (d) crop extension services for herders diversifying away from livestock, and (e)
training of FNEC staff in these activities. The project would finance (i) the purchase of simple means
of transportation (four double-cabin pick-up trucks and about 30 motor cycles) and office equipment; (ii)
the travel costs of three technicians made available by ACDA; the salaries and expenses of four subject
matter specialists, in transhumant herding, small ruminants, poultry raising and pasture management, and
of 36 basic extension agents; (iii) on-the-job training of the technical staff; (iv) training of mixed farmers
in the use of cattle traction (six two-day courses a year), and (v) short-duration assistance by specialist
consultants and studies to better identify the beneficiaries' true extension needs.
2.27   Action studies in support of extension ($0.4 million, I percent). The "action study" (a term
borrowed from the EDF, which would be financing this component) means a stage of technological
transfer intermediate between research and extension, conducted in the field under collaboration between
beneficiaries and subject matter specialists. The two major fields covered by these activities would be
animal production (Herding Systems Action Studies Unit--CEASP) and animal health (Animal Health
Action Studies Unit--CEASA). The project would finance agricultural (tractor and tools) and laboratory
equipment, the operational expenses of the action teams (excluding salaries) and short- and medium-
duration expert missions.
2.28   ProDaration of trypanotolerant cattle ($0.5 million, 2 percent). In view of the recognized value
of trypanotolerant cattle for animal production in the glossina-infested areas, the project would finance
(a) a continuous census and, as far as possible, the selection of trypanotolerant breeding stock available
for sale, and (b) technical support for purchasers of these animals in order to speed up their propagation,
both to be provided by ANDE's field staff.
2.29   Animal husbandry in the wildlife manaeement area ($0.6 million, 2 percent). With the object
of (a) alleviating the reduction in meat supply to local populations caused by the halting of transhumant
herding in the ZIC; (b) helping to reduce the pressure on hunting for food supply, and (c) diversifying
the local agricultural economy, ANDE would promote the development of small ruminants, poultry and
bee-keeping among the populations established in the ZIC. These activities would be assisted by the
participation of one or two French National Cooperation agents. Since rational hunting is the only
economic activity capable of sustaining the buffer-zone character of the CAR's eastern region, the project
would finance, possibly under the aegis of the MEF, a preparatory study, as the basis for any future
activities, of the ZIC's rational and durable exploitable economic potential (hunting, tourism, gathering,
etc.), the location and number of the population concerned, and the activities to be undertaken in order
to sustain the zone's wildlife character. This study would encompass, in particular, aerial census of the
wildlife present in the zone at the start of the project (and if necessary prior to the mid-term review).
It would be entrusted to local consulting firms, supported to the necessary extent by foreign experts. The



- 21 -
Borrower would carry out this study by June 30, 1996 and submit its results to IDA for review and
comments.
Institutional Support
2.30   Management staff training ($2.4 million, 7 percent). Since training of MAE staff is provided for
under the PAIA, this project will focus on more specialized training of the staff of the livestock sector
agencies. The training would include ad hoc seminars using local or foreign consultants and academic
or vocational training courses abroad, preferably in African institutions. Training needed abroad would
comprise (a) a long-term training for some twelve veterinarians to complete the small number currently
available in the country (32, some near retirement age); (b) a three-month training for 11 members of
the DAM in grassroots development methods developed by the Groupe de recherche et d'appui pour
I'auto-promotion paysanne (GRAAP) of Burkina Faso; (c) the training of four high level staff, and later
27 medium level staff of the DPA in the management of forage resources and rangelands; (d) two-month
training in applied data processing for two monitoring and evaluation agents; and (e) some 10 scholarships
of five years each for sons of herders capable of receiving secondary or college education. This last
component would follow on the efforts undertaken with some success by the previous projects. It would
be provided in France and aim at accelerating the democratization of sector organizations and the
integration of the herder community in the national community. The veterinarians could receive their
education at the Inter-States Veterinary Medicine School in Dakar. The DAM staff would be trained in
Burkina Faso unless the trainers could be brought to the CAR. DPA staff would be trained in Gabon,
Guinea and the Ivory Coast. The location of data processing training remains to be determined.
2.31   Training in the CAR would comprise (a) a five-week course followed by a refresher course of
three weeks for five data processing agents; (b) the training of DAM trainers; (c) five-day refresher
courses each year for twenty extension agents recruited among the herders in subjects identified by the
herders as being major constraints to the development of livestock; (c) 10 sessions of internal training
each year for DAM staff; (d) three seminars to boost the production of trypanotolerant cattle; and (e) the
training of 12 managers of regional mutualistic credit schemes and 85 village level managers. Further
training would be envisaged in areas related to health control, food hygiene and administration. The
Borrower has prepared a training program for the first year of the project. The training program would
be carried out according to terms of reference and under a timetable agreed upon with IDA. The
training program would be updated each year and submitted to IDA for review and comment by
October 31 of the preceding year. FNEC's Inputs Department is further planning to provide, at its own
expense (a) a program of training its staff in efficient management methods, avoiding confusion between
commercial, financial and social goals, possibly preparing them to take over responsibility from FNEC,
as private contractors, for input distribution in specific areas of the country; and (b) basic and refresher
training of input depot managers (three 3-day courses a year). Other technical training programs would
be provided, as needed, for the rest of the organization's staff, including training related to regional
livestock and meat trade, the latter being also made available to ACCB staff.
2.32   Project management ($3.1 million, 10 percent). The project would finance: (a) within the FIDE
director's office: (i) the contract employees' and adviser's remuneration; (ii) three vehicles, for liaison
or field travel purposes; (iii) two office computers and also office rental, equipment and operating costs,
and (iv) the annual audits and mid-term evaluation; (b) within FNEC: a volunteer financial manager for
the Inputs Department and missions in support of the General Secretariat, and (c) within ANDE: (i) a
pick-up and seven motor cycles, a computer and 10 consultant-months for the Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit, and (ii) two vehicles, 10 motorcycles, eight mopeds and a volunteer specialized in computerized
bookkeeping for one year for the Director General's office. The UCF's expenses would continue to be
financed under the PAIA.



- 22 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
General Framework
3.01   Pursuant to the policy undertaken by the Government of the CAR of deregulating the economy,
reducing government charges on the budget and democratizing institutions, the proposed project aims to
continue the process of strengthening the livestock sector professional organizations and to widen their
role in the sector's economic and social development. Execution of the various components of the project
would therefore be entrusted, under the aegis of the MAE's existing agencies, to both private and public
agencies. The management of the project would be ensured at three levels: (a) the Financial Coordination
Unit (UCF) already established in the MAE under the PAIA, for Borrower supervision of project finances
and disbursement liaison with the donors; (b) the Inter-Professional Coordination Committee (CIC) of
FIDE, which would help coordinate the funds allocated under the project to its member agencies, and (c)
FIDE's member institutions, remaining fully responsible for designing, planning and implementing their
respective activities within the framework of FIDE's resources, supplemented in certain cases by their
own resources (membership contributions, input sales, etc.). The funds mobilized by the donors would
supplement those deriving from the beneficiaries' contributions through FIDE, intended to ensure the
sustainability of the activities undertaken. Technical and financial supervision of the expenditures
incurred in FIDE operations would be performed by the FIDE director's office. All disbursement
requests addressed to the donors under the project would then be submitted to the UCF for approval and
transmission to the donors. FNEC being currently the only private sector organization to benefit from
the public funds made available to FIDE under the Credit, a Project Agreement between IDA and FNEC
defines the modalities pertaining to the use of such funds.
The Inter-Professional Coordination Committee of FIDE
3.02   The FIDE would be set up in the form of an institution with juridical personality. Financial
coordination of FIDE-financed activities would be the responsibility of its CIC comprising the major
institutions involved in the project. The CIC would be composed of representatives of MAE, ANDE,
FNEC and, later, other livestock-sector professional entities once these have shown themselves to be fully
representative of their respective occupations at the national level, to be independent of government
supervision and to possess adequate technical and administrative competence. FIDE would have a small
executive secretariat responsible for administering the funds and preparing for the (proposed semi-annual)
meetings of the CIC. This secretariat will include a manager with technical and financial training that
fits him to provide sound advisory assistance to the CIC. He would be assisted by a qualified accountant,
two secretaries and a technical adviser, funded by French Aid, with power of co-signature for all FIDE
commitments (allocations and any placements). The advantages of the FIDE compared to the former
FDE would be that an interprofessional body rather than a single agency of the sector would be
collecting, allocating and supervising the use of the fees perceived by the sector and thus ensuring their
timely availability, their equitable distribution and the transparency of their end use. While FIDE is
expected to coordinate the funding of most project investments and operations, only funds related to
current expenditures will actually be handled by FIDE, payments for most investments being made
directly by the MAE through its UCF.
3.03   FIDE would be financed permanently by two types of fees charged on cattle transactions in return
for the services rendered to the people involved: (a) a health inspection charge of about (up to now) CFA
Francs 1,500/head on the occasion of health inspection by ANDE agents, either at the border in the case



- 23 -
of imported animals or at the first market where a transaction concerning the animal takes place,"2 and
(b) a market fee, currently of the order of CFA Francs 500. The method of collecting the fees would
be simplified to reduce collection cost. FIDE would commission private collectors to collect the fees;
these would purchase the fee receipts from FIDE in advance, at a rate allowing them to set themselves
up in the markets alongside the ANDE inspectors and remunerate their efforts out of the price margin.
ANDE would monitor collection of the two types of fees in order to avoid cheating. The receipts from
both fees, net of collection costs, would be paid into the FIDE in full. The fund resources, currently
estimated at about CFA Francs 400 million/year but bound to grow, would be allocated in priority to the
development activities provided for under the project. Since FIDE would be advancing the first set of
fee receipts to its collectors, a preliminary working fund would need to be set up, of the order of one
month of expenditures. This amount would be advanced from project funds. The various organizations
would be required to familiarize their members with the benefits the FIDE would bring them, in order
to maximize the use of health inspection services and official markets. Funds provided by the donors
would complement those proceeding from the beneficiaries through FIDE and would ensure the
sustainability of the activities undertaken. MAE would delegate responsibility to FIDE for managing the
project funds allocated to activities implemented by sectoral agencies. These funds would be managed
in accordance with a clearly defined annual on-lending, allocation and utilization scheme approved by the
CIC and satisfactory to the sector's various grassroots beneficiaries. Although FIDE would be a new
institution with no previous track record, it would benefit from the management experience developed
by the FNEC, ANDE and the MAE. Project expenditures would be subject to continuous technical and
financial monitoring by the executing agencies and FIDE respectively, and to periodic auditing under the
aegis of the UCF.
Financial Coordination Unit
3.04   UCF would monitor the financial correctness of all IDA-assisted projects of which the MAE is
the executing agency. The UCF would (a) supervise and monitor use of the project funds, each
organization being responsible for its own accounting, and (b) administer disbursement requests and
special accounts in accordance with the donors' specific procedures. All disbursement requests addressed
to the project donors would be presented to the UCF for approval and transmittal to the donors. The
UCF would also supervise proper application of the contracting procedures. The UCF possesses a
competent staff of three professionals and the necessary logistical resources. A financial controller,
already recruited internationally under the on going PAIA, provides additional safeguards.
National Livestock Development Agency
3.05   ANDE's responsibilities would continue to extend to the regulatory, supervisory, natural resource
and environmental protection, epidemiological surveillance and research/development activities normally
incumbent on the public authorities (annex 7, on the Organization of ANDE). It would also be
responsible for setting up the proposed health cordon to be financed by the European Community under
the PARC.  It would undertake a pilot brucellosis control project. It would also provide extension
services on technical themes through a specialized department which could later be attached to the FNEC.
MAE and its agencies would be responsible for conducting the action studies, formulating sectoral
policies and applying the pertinent regulations, and for statistical monitoring, veterinary surveillance,
product hygiene, input quality and border controls.
12    To avoid imported herds bypassing border health control posts or encroaching on wildlife or protected zones in
order to escape high taxation, they should not additionally be liable to customs duties.



- 24 -
National Federation of Herders
3.06   Following the latest reorganisation, FNEC's structures include a body representing its members
and an executive organ with regional branches. Grassroots representation is ensured by the herders'
membership in GIPs or GIAPs, organized into FELGIPs, whose representatives, appointed by the elected
Board of each FELGIP, make up the majority of FNEC's Management Board. The other members,
comprising not more than one third of the Council, are elected by their peers from among the members
by right under the old statutes. The FNEC's executive organ comprises (a) a Chairman; (b) a General
Secretary assisted by three headquarters departments (Inputs, Grassroots Capacity Development, and
Markets Management) and three regional delegates. These regional delegates would be assigned to the
locations of ANDE's regional directorates (Bouar, Bambari and Bossembele). They would work in
permanent liaison with the chairmen of the FELGIPs, and also with ANDE's regional directors. They
would monitor the regional grassroots capacity development, input supply and marketing activities. They
would be assisted in this work for three years by volunteer experts recruited by French Aid. The
incremental expenses arising out of the new FNEC structure would be covered by savings on budget
items at the upper echelon of FNEC in accordance with proposals presented by its Management Board
to the donors during the Credit negotiations and currently being implemented bu the new Secretary
General of FNEC.
3.07   FNEC's revenues would consist of (a) sales of membership cards, and (b) allocations from the
FIDE. Sales of membership cards have fallen by some 30 percent since 1991, for the same reasons that
explain the fall in number of vaccinations (para. 1.07). To reverse this trend, the cost of the card
(currently CFA Francs 10,000 per member owning more than 30 cattle) should be geared to herd size.
The growth in the GIPs' and GIAPs' responsibilities in the running of the FNEC, together with
redistribution of the latter's financial resources toward the grassroots level, allowing them to be used for
local collective interests, should help membership to recover. The members' contributions would be
distributed among FNEC's central office (60 percent), GIPs and GIAPs (30 percent) and FELGIPs (10
percent).  This should not produce a fall in the Central Directorate's receipts if the increase in
membership materializes.
Herding and Mixed Farming Interest Groups
3.08   The GIPs and GIAPs, each comprising at least five members, would provide a channel for greater
involvement of the beneficiaries in the design and implementation of the project. The production
strengthening activities will be built around the GIPs, which will systematically be asked to contribute
in cash, labor or kind to execution of the field upgrading works. The GIPs and GIAPs will be able to
look to the FNEC for commercial or social services (drug and input supply and grassroots capacity
development).
Mutual Savings and Loan System: Herd Rebuilding
3.09   The mutual savings and loan system would be managed, at least during the initial years, by a
specialized provider of services, preferably with past experience in the CAR's rural sector. In case CICM
would not be directly involved, harmonization between approaches and close collaboration between
operators would have to be ensured. The provider would be responsible for (a) setting up the savings and
loan network agencies in a manner allowing for its own gradual disengagement from their management;
(b) training the managers of these agencies; (c) setting up a system of supervision of the agencies and
their operation, and (d) in due course, integrating the agencies into a national rural credit system whose
headquarters echelon would prospectively be converted into a financial institution in the medium or longer
term. Each savings and loan unit would be funded by the savings deposited by its members. The interest



- 25 -
rates would be the savings and loan rates in effect in the CAR: deposit interest 4 percent, loan interest
24 percent. Loans would require prior savings by the borrowers equivalent to 30 percent of the expense
to be financed. The rules of access to the mutual savings and loan scheme would be similar to those in
effect in Guinea, Congo and Benin.
3.10   Financial management of rebuilding of the herds of the poorest herders would be shared among
FIDE (allocation of funds), FNEC (identification of eligible beneficiaries on the basis of GIP
recommendations)"3 and ANDE (monitoring of proper utilization of the funds earmarked for this
purpose). These three organizations would benefit from the experience and the technical know-how of
the managers of the mutual credit activities. The conditions of access to herd-rebuilding grants by FIDE
and the Borrower (out of donor financing) and the procedures for allocating the funds and monitoring
their utilization would be the subject of a prior study performed by specialist consultants under the
supervision of ANDE and FNEC. The study would, in particular, review the feasibility and opportunity
of introducing the "passing-on the gift" approach successfully implemented in some other African
countries, which requires that the beneficiary extend similar assistance to others, once his financial
situation has improved. Evidence satisfactory to IDA that the herd rebuilding scheme has been
developed in accordance with this study would be a condition of disbursement of the component.
Establishment of Agro-Pastoral Development Areas
3.11   The DPA, in close collaboration with local government authorities and beneficiaries, would fix
the boundaries of the future ZAGROPs, the general locations of which have already been defined (see
map). The herders, sedentary farmers and hunters will all need to be involved in this procedure since
consultation and agreement among them is essential. The design of the ZAGROPs will be revised to
include the concept of "grazing unit," a geographic entity within the ZAGROP corresponding to the
grazing territory used by the herds of a unit of herders based on kinship (a sakik6) grouped around a
single chief (ardo). Land allocations to the different sakikes within a ZAGROP would be decided on by
a general meeting of members.  Each ZAGROP would be run by a committee composed of
representatives of the herding units and of the other villagers. The committee would be assisted by the
DPA or by consulting firms, preferably local. The consultants would be responsible for drawing up the
ZAGROPs' annual and multiannual operating programs and monitoring their execution. They would
perform their services under multiannual (or renewable annual) contracts under which they would bear
technical responsibility. In return for the assistance received, the ZAGROPs would undertake to avoid
degrading the natural environment and to maintain the infrastructure made available to them. The herders
would also play a major role in defining the technical extension themes. The initial planning would
encompass the physical boundaries, objectives and methods of operation of the ZAGROPs over an initial
period of five years. Annual consultation would take place at the end of the rainy season in order to
decide on the places and dates for bringing land under cultivation and for fire operations (crop
preparation, grazing and hunting fires), with due allowance for periodic resting of the vegetation, for the
ensuing 12 months. The annual development plans of the ZAGROPs would be presented to IDA by
October 31 of each year.
3.12   Each ZAGROP would have constantly available a layout plan based on satellite imagery marked
to show the perimeters assigned to the various socio-professional groups and also the locations of the
various activities under the project and its implementation status. DPA staff who wished to set up on
their own account in order to assist the ZAGROPs in drawing up and implementing the annual plans
13    The FNEC, reorganized within more democratic structures, will be best in a position to identify potential beneficiaries
and most accountable to them.



- 26 -
would, after leaving the public service, receive training financed by the Credit in the management of
small enterprises and would be provided with physical resources by ANDE to help them set up in
business as private consulting firms. In view of the modest amount and scattered locations of the road
works financed by the project, the possibility will be studied of having the construction and rehabilitation
(using village labor) of rural dirt roads done either by small and medium scale enterprises (SME)
registered with the Public Works Department's SME Unit or on force account by ANDE's Civil
Engineering Department. The arrangements for construction of the network of tracks and access roads
of the ZAGROPs have been defined to the satisfaction of IDA.
Animal Husbandry Extension Service
3.13   Herding in Africa's moist tropical zone is characterized by constant interaction between three
kinds of factors: natural environmental factors (climate, feed resources, presence of vectors), animal
husbandry factors (animal genotype, herding system) and pathological factors (presence or absence of
parasites and infectious germs). It is consequently necessary to deal jointly with the veterinary and
animal husbandry aspects. Since animal husbandry extension has to be based on research findings, it will
initially be set up within ANDE, where such findings have been accumulated under the previous projects.
Assurances have been obtained during the negotiations that ACDA will make the services of three
food-crop farming experts available to ANDE.
3.14   ANDE's field staff currently combine advisory assistance (extension) with regulation and
inspection authority. This mixture of functions limits the trust the herders place in the extension agents
and creates confusion in the receipt of messages. The project will provide for setting up a service limited
to extension functions. Animal husbandry extension would take four different forms, depending on the
production system: (a) integrated village sedentary mixed farming, supported by ACDA using its usual
methods and ANDE's technical specialists; (b) herding systems enclosed within the ZAGROPs, based
mainly on development plans drawn up by the consulting firms or the DPA; (c) transhumant herding
systems organized into GIPs, whose members' extension needs would be identified and monitored by
ANDE management staff, and (d) herders remaining outside the GIPs and GIAPs, who would receive
advisory assistance through the radio broadcasts system already set up under the PNDE, which would
be reorganized. The extension services under the GIPs and GIAPs would later be transferred to the
FNEC in view of the advantage it offers in terms of access to the herders.
Action Studies
3.15   The purpose of the action studies scheme would be to evaluate solutions to animal traction,
production or health problems which have been identified by the herders and transfer them to the field.
In view of the separation noted in the CAR between animal and plant production systems, the action
studies would be entrusted to ANDE so as to take advantage of its network of field agents. In preparation
for the animal-traction development activities entrusted to FNEC in liaison with ACDA, ANDE will need
to draw up the lessons of draft cultivation in the CAR, identify the basic constraints on its development,
and propose necessary measures to remove them. ANDE's animal nutrition action studies would focus
on (a) ways of improving ruminant and monogastric nutrition, with a view to utilizing locally available
resources, especially legume forage and cotton seed, for which there is now increasing demand, and (b)
grazing and forage crop management (CEASP). The animal health action studies would concern (i)
epidemiology of the most threatening diseases in the CAR (rinderpest, peripneumonia); (ii) reproductive
diseases (brucellosis); (iii) causes of mortality in young animals, and (iv) vector conditions connected with
the moist tropical climate (trypanosomiasis and tick-borne diseases) (CEASA). These tasks would be
performed mainly in the Bangui laboratory, which is served by three regional mobile action teams. The
Bouar and Bambari regional laboratories, whose volume of activity is inadequate, would be closed. Pilot



- 27 -
regional tse-tse fly and tick control adaptation projects using the "pour on" method would be implemented
jointly by ANDE and MAE. If this project yielded conclusive results, FNEC would adopt the method on
a commercial basis.
3.16   A framework agreement would be concluded between ANDE and the Central African Agronomic
Research Institute (ICRA) concerning basic, applied and adaptive veterinary and animal husbandry
research, upstream of the action studies, taking advantage of the many advances in regional and
international research.
Grassroots Capacity Development
3.17   Grassroots capacity development would encompass consolidating the social and financial
management of the existing GIPs, GIAPs and FELGIPs and creating additional groups, training their
members and identifying future professional leaders. These outreach services would be conducted in the
foulfoulde and sango languages. They would necessitate recruiting and training additional grassroots
development agents in order to maintain the ratio of one agent to every seven groups. The development
outreach teams would help provide leadership assistance to the herders in setting up ZAGROPs and
drawing up grazing utilization plans and annual operating programs. They would also assist the ACCB
and the ANBC and would include management, credit, marketing and, where appropriate, food
technology specialists. They would moreover help to train the members of the village mutual funds. For
that purpose the outreach agents would hold two- or three-day training courses for each encampment,
assisted by the credit services specialists, followed by a one-day stock-taking session every three months.
Women would receive this training in the same way as men. A special program would be set up under
which female grassroots development agents would be assigned to each region to provide capacity
development assistance to herders' wives, for example in processing milk products. Support for FNEC's
Grassroots Capacity Development Directorate is already being financed by FAC. The activities under
the project would supplement those already started and would be financed out of French Aid's
contribution to the project.
Activities in the Wildlife Management Area
3.18   The Borrower shall carry out by June 30, 1996, a study to identify and assess traditional
subsistence and commercial hunting patterns with a view to improving the sustainability of
traditional hunting.  The villagers living in the ZIC would participate in the designing and
implementation of a small livestock development program, defining the subsistence hunting zones and
organizing safari and sightseeing tourism and would share in the profits earned by these activities.
Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation
3.19   Monitoring of the project would be performed by the institutions involved, with coordination by
the UCF and the FIDE director's office. The project would be evaluated by a consultant firm specialized
in evaluation and having experience in animal technology, recruited by international bidding.
Appointment of the institution responsible for developing the monitoring and evaluation system
would be made on the basis of bidding documents agreed at negotiations. The institution would
immediately undertake a study of the initial situation, including a demographic and socio-economic
analysis of the poorer herders and their cattle, and develop a procedure for continuous monitoring of the
project. Monitoring would encompass the impact of the activities financed by the project on (a) the
incomes of the herders targeted by the various project activities, especially the most disadvantaged
herders, women and farmer-herders; (b) rangeland forage and water resources; (c) wildlife protection and
management; (d) animal health, especially in terms of success in controlling the transmission of East



- 28 -
Coast fever, and (e) technical and financial management of the professional organizations, including FIDE
and the savings and loan scheme. By April 30 of each year, the Borrower shall prepare and submit
to IDA a report detailing how the training program and the ZAGROP development action plan were
executed during the previous year (including the results achieved, the difficulties encountered and
the measures taken to resolve them). A mid-term review of the project would be implemented not
later than December 31, 1997.
3.20   The chief impact indicators likely to develop during implementation of the project would be
observed for a restricted sample. They would comprise (a) herd growth and birth, morbidity and
mortality rates; (b) increased use of draft animals; (c) development of rangeland carrying capacity in the
ZAGROPs, along the transhumant herding corridors and around watering points; (d) estimated poaching
trends, and (e) the financial situation of the professional organizations, FIDE and the mutual savings and
loan scheme. The monitoring data would be gathered by means of simple reference sampling, tailored
to the transhumant nature of the herds and allowing clinical monitoring of them. A specific approach to
the problems noted, similar to that instituted under the first livestock project, would be encouraged. The
savings and loan monitoring indicators would comprise (i) number of village and regional schemes and
number of members; (ii) total amount of savings captured and average amount per member; (iii) number
and amount of loans made over a given period; (iv) outstanding loan balances and trend of the
lending/saving ratio, and (v) the schemes' annual financial results. At the end of the third year the
evaluating institution would present a mid-project assessment to the Government, the professional
organizations and the donors, highlighting the difficulties encountered and the means to be deployed
during the rest of the project in order to correct them. Special attention would be given to setting up
ZAGROPs, assistance to the poorest groups and to women, and mutual savings and loan management.
Project supervision would be performed by semi-annual missions by teams comprising representatives
of all the donors, comprising livestock, financial management and wildlife protection specialists. The
epidemiological surveillance provided for under the PARC would help supervise the prophylaxis
operations conducted by the private sector and avoid propagation of the major diseases. Mobile teams,
in collaboration with local ANDE agents, would collect samples in the field for forwarding to the Bangui
laboratory, which would at the same time provide support for the action studies.
1mplementation Schedule
3.21   The institutions responsible for implementing the project are already familiar with the donors'
procedures and participated in the preparation of the project. The field investments are spread over a
series of stages which will be firmed up in the annual technical and financial implementation programs
(PETFs) providing detailed implementation schedules; the Project Implementation Plan, agreed upon
during negotiations, is therefore limited to setting forth standards, methods and detailed procedures to be
complied with in selecting and executing the various investments and managing the various credit,
training and extension components. The PETFs will be prepared by local consulting firms with active
involvement of the beneficiaries and the executing agencies. The first year's PETF would be prepared
soon after the signing of the Credit Agrement. The draft PETFs of the different agencies will be
consolidated by the CIC and then by the UCF with an eye to budget coherence and will be submitted to
the donors for approval.
Technical Assistance
3.22   The CAR Government has already concluded technical cooperation agreements with the EDF and
French Aid to meet the expected needs of the project. These agreements provide for: (a) expert
assistance to senior CAR officials (FIDE Directorate and DSA Technical and Scientific Officer for five
years, two DPA officials and one FNEC grassroots capacity development official for three years), in



- 29 -
support of the installation of new structures and procedures; (b) assistance by three experienced French
volunteers, at the regional level, for three years who would start up implementation of the project while
the officials who are to replace them are being trained, and (c) eight young volunteers, chiefly French
National Cooperation Service and Volunteers for Progress agents, who would serve in the field in direct
contact with the herders and their wives, assisting them in carrying out project activities. In view of the
decentralized nature of the management of project activities by already existing organizations and within
their regular mandate, the staff with whom foreign experts would be working are already on duty. In
addition to this assistance and that already furnished to the UCF under the PAIA, IDA would finance
short expert consultant missions (totaling about six man-years) to take part in technical and legal studies,
training courses, ZAGROP planning, infrastructure works supervision, and evaluation of the project.
Terms of reference for these consultants have been reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. Many
of these would be local consultants. A specialized provider of management services recruited by
international bidding would assist in running the mutual savings and loan system.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
% of
Local  Foreign Total base cost
(US$ million)
Rangeland Management                       3.55   4.19          7.74    31
Anirnal Health                             0.81   2.38          3.19    13
Grassroots Capacity Development            1.38   1.84          3.22    13
Financial Assistance
Mutual Savings and Loan Mgt        0.73   0.65           1.39    6
Herd Rebuilding                     1.78                 1.78    7
Technical Support
Extension                          0.66   0.50           1.16    5
Action Studies                      0.09   0.23          0.32    1
Trypanotolerant Cattle             0.11   0.33           0.44    2
Animal Husbandry in ZIC             0.04   0.43          0.47    2
Institutional Support
Training                            0.16   1.74          1.90    8
Project Administration              0.39   2.15          2.54    10
Project Preparation Fund             0.27 0                89
Total Base Cost                            9.97- 15.07         25.04   100
Physical contingencies                     1.22   1.77          2.99    12
Price contingencies                        3.37   1.04          .41 
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        14.56  17.88         32.45   130
4.01   The total cost of the project is estimated at about CFA Francs 19.0 billion (US$32.4 million),
including a foreign exchange component of CFA Francs 10.4 billion (US$ 17.9 million) or 55 percent.
The estimates are based on November 1993 prices and the dollar exchange rate of mid-February 1994,
i.e., after the devaluation of the CFA franc. They include US$3.0 million for physical contingencies and
US$4.4 million for price contingencies. These costs are recapitulated in Annex 8. All costs are net of



- 30 -
taxes. Physical contingencies comprise 15 percent for training, civil engineering and non-salary operating
expenses and 10 percent for all other items except herd rebuilding and the PPF. The price contingency
figures for foreign exchange costs are based on the World Bank's international price increase projections
(2.4 percent a year from 1994 to 1999). The price contingency figures for the local currency cost
components are based on the CAR domestic inflation rate expected by the Bank following the devaluation
of the CFA franc."
Financing
FINANCING PLAN
US$ million                %
IDA                              16.63                 51.2
IFAD                              4.92                 15.2
French Aid                        3.75                 11.6
EDF                               5.10                 15.7
Beneficiaries                     0.43                  1.3
FIDE                              1.62                  5.0
TOTAL                            32.45                 100.0
4.02    The IDA Credit of SDR 11.5 million (US$16.6 million) would finance 42.5 percent of foreign
exchange and 62.0 percent of local currency costs. The shares of the other donors would amount to the
equivalent of US$4.92 million by IFAD, US$3.75 million (in the form of a grant) by French Aid and
US$5.10 million (grant) by the EDF, giving a total of US$30.4 million of foreign financing. The
government would make part of the credit proceeds available to FIDE under the subsidiary financial
agreement (as a grant) established under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 2.13),
including the maintenance of a separate accounting system to record and justify the use of all funds
received by FIDE under the subsidiary agreement. The beneficiaries would contribute to the field
works execution and maintenance costs and herd rebuilding costs in kind, in labor or in cash for a total
amount of US$430,000 equivalent." Local FIDE resources would finance US$1.62 million equivalent,
i.e., part of the operating expenses and herd rebuilding cost and the small assistance fund to provide
access to the mutual savings and loan system to the poorest herders. The Goverrnment would pay the
Following devaluation, inflation in the CAR is expected to average 40% in 1994, taking into account the foreign
exchange share of household and business purchases. The increase in civil service pay is expected to hold steady
at 10% for that year. The program costs calculation is based on the hypothesis that the domestic share of these
costs will evolve at the same rate as civil service pay, while the salaries of contract Iprivate status) employees--the
only ones financed under the program--will rise pro rata to average domestic inflation. Inflation is expected to
reach 6% in 1995, 5% in 1996 and 4% in subsequent years.
15      The ZAGROP infrastructures and small collective equipment would be financed directly by the program under a
matching grant formula calling for a contribution by the beneficiaries in kind or cash of about 10% (track
rehabilitation and small dam construction), 20% (interior roads) and 50% (track maintenance). Beneficieries of the
herd rebuilding component would contribute out of their pocket for about 10% of the cost of the animals.



- 31 -
salaries of ANDE's civil service staff out of its regular budget (non-project). Similarly, FNEC would
pay the salaries of its employees, except extension and grassroots development agents, out of its own
funds.  IDA (60 percent) and IFAD (40 percent) would jointly finance the grassroots capacity
development, mutual savings and loan management, herd rebuilding assistance, extension, trypanotolerant
cattle expansion and training components.  Compliance vith all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement will be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit
Agreement. IDA would also help finance the rangeland management component. This financing would
include vehicles, civil engineering works, equipment, consultants and studies, training expenses, operating
expenses and herd rebuilding funds. French Aid would finance the necessary technical support for
institutional strengthening of project coordination, the grassroots capacity development activities and the
zoo-technical activities undertaken in the ZIC. The EDF would finance the activities of ANDE's action
studies unit and the animal health and rangeland management activities covered by PARC II.
Project Preparation Facility
4.03   A US$350,000 fund was approved on February 24, 1992 to finance (a) the contract for preparing
the proposed project by BDPA-SCETAGRI; (b) local consultants who helped prepare the environmental
impact study, and (c) the rural grassroots development activities. The PPF resources were supplemented
in an amount of US$140,000 equivalent by French Aid, on a shared expenses basis in the design and
preparation of the proposed project. A second IDA allocation of US$400,000 was made to the PPF to
finance preparation of the land-tenure regulatory procedures for establishment of the ZAGROPs, the
information campaign among transhumant herders in the ZIC, and other activities preparatory to
presentation of the Credit to the Association's Board of Directors.
Procurement
4.04   The table below summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed methods
of procurement. The MAE is the agency responsible for carrying out all major procurement and
supervising minor procurement entrusted to the various project execution agencies. The ministry has past
experience for procurement of goods under IDA- and other donor-financed projects, and while its
procedures were initially deficient, resulting in some delays, corrective measures have since been taken,
mainly in the form of MAE staff training. There has been no Country Procurement Assessment made
yet. However, the Borrower's procurement regulations and procedures have proven in earlier projects
to be acceptable for all methods of procurement proposed under the project.
4.05   All the goods and services financed out of the IDA Credit will have to be procured in accordance
with IDA guidelines. The civil engineering contracts (US$6.6 million, about 40 percent of the Credit
amount), intended for short access roads and relatively small rural structures, which are of little interest
for foreign bidders, would be awarded following local competitive bidding (LCB). Past experience in
the CAR having shown that calls for international competitive bidding for cars have not been answered
by anyone else than the three local representatives, and this at prices substantially above those observed
in other countries of the region, contracts for cars ($0.7 million at the beginning of the project plus $0.8
million for their renewal three years later, totalling about nine percent of the Credit amount) would be
awarded, in view of past favorable experience, through the United Nations specialized agency. Contracts
for smaller vehicles ($350,000), such as mopeds, would be procured through LCB. There is adequate
local competition, and only locally represented makes offer appropriate maintenance services. Office and
field equipment (US$480,000) would be procured through LCB or local shopping, computers ($80,000)
being acquired through International Shopping. Contracts awarded by LCB would generally be for
amnounts above $50,000 and would be awarded in accordance with CAR government procedures, deemed
acceptable by IDA. All LCB would be open to foreign bidders, would provide clearly defined evaluation



- 32 -
PROCUREMENT
(US$ million)
Project Component                         UN      Non       Total
LCB       Other    Agency   Bank        Cost
Civil engincering     6.6                            0.4      7.0
(6.6)                                  (6.6)
Equipment and         0.5        0.5       1.5       2.8      5.2
vehicles             (0.3)      (0.25)    (0.95)             (1.5)
TA, studies                      0.6                 3.6f     4.2
(0.4)                        (0.4)
Training                         2.4                          2.4
(1.5)                        (1.4)
Herd financing                   2.S'                         2.5
(1.2)                        (1.2)
Contract. salaries               3.8                          4.0
and per diems                   (2.0)                0.2     (1.8)
Operation                        4.4                          6.3
(2.7)               1.9      (2.0)
PPF                             0.9                           0.9
(0.8)                        (0.8)
TOTAL                  7.1       15.0      1.5      8.9       32.5
. (IDA share)      | (6.9)       (8.75)   (0.95)      _      (16.6)
Note:   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by th IDA Credit.
a. Finsnced by French aid in accordance with an agreement already signed with the Borrower.
b. Direct arrangements with appropriat inxtitutiorn and consultant contracting.
c. Funds provided as grant through the FIDE to herdcr identified by FNEC.
criteria and would be awarded to the lowest bidder. Bids would be opened in the presence of bidders'
representatives who decided to attend. The training services contracts (US$1.8 million) would be
awarded by mutual agreement between the Borrower and the institutions considered best able to furnish
them, following IDA review and approval. Contracts for goods under US$50,000 (up to an aggregate
amount of $500,000) would be awarded after consulting at least three suppliers. In so far as the proposed
study recommends assistance in kind, cattle for herd reconstitution purposes ($1.2 million, or about seven
percent of the Credit amount) would be purchased from local merchants on the animal markets around
the country. Operating expenditures eligible for financing out of the Credit (contractual salaries, vehicle
and equipment operating and maintenance expenses and office supplies, totaling US$2.9 million) would
be subject to local government procedures. Short term consultants' and studies contracts under IDA
financing are for relatively small amounts ($680,000). They would be awarded in accordance with IDA
guidelines on the use of consultants, giving opportunity for the participation of local consulting firms.
A few CAR consultant firms are deemed capable of bidding for such contracts.
4.06    In order to accelerate procurement, draft bidding documents for management support services to
the mutual savings and loan system and for the recruitment of a firm to implement the evaluation of the
project have been reviewed at negotiations. Contracts for goods and works estimated to cost $50,000 or
more will be subject to IDA's prior review. For consultants' contracts, the prior review limit will be
$50,000 for firms and $25,000 for individuals.



- 33 -
4.07   Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows: (a) prompt reporting of
contract award information by the Borrower; .(b) comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank by the
Borrower (assisted by the consultant available at the UCF) indicating revised cost estimates for contracts
exceeding $50,000 and revised timing of major procurement actions; (c) audit reports by independent
auditors confirming that adequate procedures were followed in procurement actions; and (d) a completion
report by the Borrower within three months of the Credit's closing date.
Disbursement
DISBURSEMENT OF THE IDA CREDIT
Amount                  * financed
Category              (US$ million)            by IDA*
Civil works                    5.7                    100
Equipment and vehicles**       1.4                     60
Consultant services            0.3                     60
Training                       1.3                     60
Operating costs**              4.2                     50
Herd rebuilding                1.1                     50
Refinancing of PPF             0.7
Unallocated                    1.9
TOTAL                          16.6
IDA 60%/IFAD 40% co-financing in the grassroots capacity dovelopment, mutuat
savings and loan management, herd acquisition, oxtension. trypanotolorant cattis,
training and project administration components.
> *   Partiy reallocated by the Borrower to FNEC undor the Subsidiery Flnerning Agmont with
FIDE.
4.08   The Credit will be disbursed at the rate of (a) 100 percent for civil engineering; (b) 60 percent
for equipment and vehicle contracts relating to grassroots capacity development, mutual savings and loan
management, extension and trypanotolerant cattle development, all training contracts, as well as for short-
term consultant services and studies; and (c) 50 percent for herd financing and project operating costs.
Joint co-financing by IFAD would cover the remainder of point (b) above, and 30 percent of herd
financing. The beneficiaries would bear, either individually or collectively, through FIDE funds, 20
percent of operating costs and herd rebuilding costs and the labor component of rural infrastructure
works. The Government would only disburse against civil servant salaries, not included in project costs
since they are not incremental in nature.
4.09   The MAE would open an account, at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, to receive the initial
deposit of the Special Account. When payments under contracts have to be made using the Special
Account, two copies of the contract will be furnished to IDA before the first withdrawal of funds from
the Special Account under the contract takes place. After effectiveness of the Credit, IDA, at the
Borrower's written request, would deposit the equivalent of US$500,000 in CFA franc into the Special



- 34 -
Account, corresponding to about three months of IDA-financed expenditures. An advance equivalent to
the average expenditures of one month of FIDE under the project (equivalent to US$50,000) will be made
available to FIDE to enable it to carry out its part of project activities. FIDE will open an account in
a commercial bank for that purpose and will present replenishment requests to UCF on a monthly basis.
4.10   Disbursements would be made against presentation of supporting documentation with the
exception of those made on the basis of statements of expenditure, which would be used for expenditures
under the equivalent of US$20,000. The expenditure statements would show the description of the goods,
country of origin, payment date and currency, commercial banks used, and beneficiaries.  The
expenditure statements would be certified, under two signatures, by the UCF. They would be subject
to specific examination by the auditors. The UCF would retain the supporting documentation (invoice,
customs declaration, payment receipt) and make them available to visiting IDA supervision missions and
external auditors for examination.
Accounting and Auditing
4.11   FIDE, ANDE, FNEC and the institution responsible for managing the mutual savings and loan
system would keep separate accounts, in accordance with international accounting practice. Each entity
would prepare its own budget and annual program of activities. UCF's administrative controller would
be responsible for consolidating the accounts, financial statements and work programs and would submit
them to IDA for examination. The controller would also be responsible for monitoring the budget and
preparing disbursement requests.
4.12   The project accounts would be audited by competent independent external auditors. The audited
accounts and the audit report would be presented to IDA and the other donors for examination not later
than six months after the end of the fiscal year. The audit report would include examination of the
expenditure vouching documents and verification that (a) goods and services acquired using IDA funds
were supplied by countries approved by IDA as suppliers; (b) the goods were duly delivered and the
works carried out; (c) the payments were made; (d) all the expenditures were legitimate and for the
purposes provided for in the Credit agreements; (e) the mutual savings and loan system was managed
transparently and in conformity with its objectives, and (f) the special account was used for its purposes.
The audit report would further include an opinion concerning the reliability of the procedures followed
in preparing the expenditure statements.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01   The proposed project is justified from the economic, social and environmental standpoints. The
project is expected to reach eight percent of the population, who contribute 12 percent of GNP. Its cost,
spread over its duration of five years, is equivalent--subject to any budget changes resulting from the
devaluation of the CFA franc--to less than 10 percent of the CAR's low national budget. Its expected
benefits will stem chiefly from improved livestock health coverage and rangeland management.
Markets, Consumption and Prices
5.02   The CAR's total cattle population was estimated in 1992 at 2.4 million head, the growth of the
large herds having more than offset the capital depletion suffered by the smallest herds over the past five
years. The cull rate was about 10.5 percent and the marketing rate 8.5 percent; the difference was
accounted for by home consumption, taxes, levies in kind and compensation to farmers for crop damage.
Some 170,000 animals were marketed, of which 20,000 were sold by the herders locally and 150,000



- 35 -
went into the traditional commercial circuit. Of the latter, supplemented by the importation of some
50,000 head (including 40,000 in official imports), some from Chad but most from Sudan, 130,000 (two
thirds) were subjected to controls and fee collection. About 10,000 were exported to Cameroon and
Congo.
5.03   Meat prices in West Africa rose sharply between 1975 and 1982, particularly in the sphere of
influence of Nigeria, then fell appreciably, as a consequence of (a) the slowdown of the economies of the
coastal countries and the accompanying civil service pay freeze; (b) the depreciation of the Nigerian and
Zairian currencies, and (c) competition from meat imports from Europe subsidized at the point of origin.
Added to this, in the CAR, were imports of low-quality cattle on the hoof from Sudan. Maintenance of
the overall meat consumption level during the last few years in the CAR was accompanied by a price fall
of about 20 percent between 1985 and 1990 (the last year for which statistics are available). At the
beginning of 1991 the retail price of beef averaged about CFA francs 500/kg (bone in). The producer
price was estimated in 1990 at CFA francs 170/kg live weight. This gives a total domestic turnover of
the order of CFA francs 11 billion (including home consumption) for cattle production of some 240,000
head with an average live weight of 280 kg. In addition, internal livestock growth probably generated
capital formation of some CFA francs 1 billion. Domestic consumption, constant over the last few years,
was estimated, based on calculated overall availabilities, at 45,700 tons equivalent of meat in 1990,
including 36,300 tons of beef, 4,700 tons of goat meat and 4,500 tons of pork, mutton and poultry.
Consumption remained high in Bangui compared with the other West African capitals: about 30
kg/capita/year (28 kg in the form of beef). Domestic milk production (35 percent of females, with two
thirds lactating, producing 700 grams/day for 250 days a year after feeding the calves) is estimated at
100,000 tons a year.
5.04   The recent devaluation of the CFA franc has already had a strong positive impact on West
African export trade. Expenditures on veterinary inputs, all imported, represent no more than one or two
percent of the market value of the animals produced. The impact of the devaluation on their level of
consumption would be limited, interviews with herders showing that they are more concerned with the
inputs' availability than with their price. Exports from the European Union to Africa, cyclical in nature,
reached the CAR market in only very small amounts but competed with CAR production on the markets
of neighboring UDEAC members. These exports have noticeably shrunk following the devaluation of
the CFA franc, UDEAC agreements and the reduction in European export subsidies. The negative impact
of devaluation on the urban level of living and consequently on meat demand could be offset by the
reduction observed in imports from Sudan, some 40,000 heads in the past years, which are now being
diverted to the more profitable Nigerian market. In the long run, regional demand for livestock meat
should rise with the growth of the population, particularly the urban population, while the wildlife stocks
that once served to feed the rural population, are disappearing. Animal production in Africa's arid and
sub-arid zones has been leveling off or declining for some time. The effect of this would probably be
twofold: to boost the CAR's potential markets, and at the same time stimulate continued flows of
Sahelian herders into the CAR. Part of the growth in demand would be met by increased poultry
production in the villages or by small units around the cities.
Economic and Financial Impact
5.05   The economic and financial benefits of the project will comprise: (a) for the whole of the herders
and their wives organized under the new GIPs: increases in both assets and income, thanks to the animal
health and extension services to be provided under the project; (b) for those herders established within
the ZAGROPs, thanks to improved access to inputs and markets; (c) in the case of herders who do not
currently possess a herd of financially viable size, an additional benefit deriving from: (i) the mutual
savings and loan system, which will.enable them to cope with financial contingencies without needing to



- 36 -
reduce their livestock; (ii) enlargement of their herds through targeted grants, and (iii) for those who do
not possess a nucleus of at least 20 head, strengthened and diversified crop production through increased
use of manure and animal traction (improving the security and stability of their production systems), and
(d) higher FIDE receipts, owing to increased use of markets and inspection services and to reduced
collecting costs. The distribution of the benefits accruing to the herders between increases in immediate
income and in livestock capital will depend on their individual strategies. The partial settlement of the
herders around the ZAGROPs should facilitate marketing and thereby boost their sales. Reduced calf
mortality and the use of cotton seed as feed--still practiced very little, if at all--should also help raise milk
production, to the benefit mainly of women.
5.06   Economic considerations. The two main components of the project comprise action to: (a)
improve rangeland management, through development of the ZAGROPs, and (b) upgrade animal health,
including the related extension and grassroots capacity development services. The first component would
have a measurable impact in helping preserve the country's natural productive capital, while the second
would g-reatly improve the herders' financial situation. These two components account for about 33 and
45 percent, respectively, of total project investment expenditures. The nature of their benefits makes it
impracticable to calculate an internal rate of return.  The benefits of the rangeland management
component (preservation of natural resource capital) are not recurrent. Those of the animal health
component materialize very rapidly after the pertinent expenditures are made (fruition period under two
years) and would produce an internal rate of return which, while very high, would have no valid
significance for decision-taking. Economic analysis will therefore be limited to a simple receipts/costs
comparison, omitting the time concept.
5.07   Development of the ZAGROPs would be addressed to keeping in permanent production about 20
zones of 40,000 ha each, i.e. a total of 800,000 ha (one percent of the total area of the country or six
percent of the rangeland currently used). Experience shows that without the project the herders would
abandon these rangelands after seven years of use. The low farming population density means that these
lands would find no alternative use within 30-50 years. Even though a large segment of the country's
land is technically suitable for livestock production and much remains currently unused, the overgrazing
observed in the rangelands near the potential markets, i.e., the border with Cameroon and the areas near
Bangui, demonstrates a clear preference of herders for these lands and a beginning of rangeland scarcity.
In fact, the very concept of the ZAGROP was born of the widespread concern of the herders with
overgrazing. In the absence of a commercial market for land, this observation does not allow the
attribution of a definite value to these lands. Some comparisons can however be made, for purely
indicative purposes. The value of land, under conditions of scarcity, can be estimated by capitalizing its
optimum production capacity: 3.5 ha per head of cattle with a yield of about 16 percent a year, i.e. 1.6
marketable animals for every 35 ha of grazing rangeland, at US$120/head, giving an income of about
US$5.5/ha and hence a land capital value of US$55-65/ha, depending on the discounting rate used. The
lower figure of US$55, obtained using a discounting rate of 10 percent and representing the loss of land
capital that would be incurred at the end of seven years, discounted at the same rate, would represent a
discounted loss of about US$27/ha. This figure is to be compared with the cost of the component, or
about US$9.5/ha (US$7.8 million for 800,000 ha). Thus, even if the relative preference for lands near
the major markets implies only a fraction of the absolute value, the ZAGROP investments, otherwise
justified by their numerous social effects (para. 5.11), would also be acceptable on economic grounds.
5.08   The animal health activities started under the previous projects currently reach one third of the
CAR's cattle population. The project proposes to double this number, reaching about 7,000 traditional
herders owning an average of 100 head, by setting up 180 new GIPs over a period of five years. To
judge from the results of previous projects, these measures can be expected to reduce calf mortality by
one third and raise fertility by 10 percent, thereby boosting herd yield by three percent (from 13 to 16



- 37 -
percent). This would generate incremental production by the end of the project of 21,000 head of cattle
with a market value, at the herder level, of about US$120 per animal,"6 equivalent to a total annual
value added of US$2.5 million. In addition, the 10 percent rise in fertility should yield an equivalent
increase in milk production, i.e. 2 to 3,000 tons a year under optimum conditions, with a retail value of
about US$1 million. Added to this is a possible increase due to use of cotton by-products or conversion
of the milk to cheese. A good part of this incremental production would go to improving family
nutrition. The remainder would be sold on local markets and a small part, difficult to quantify, would
be converted to cheese, for which, however, local demand remains limited. This brings total incremental
production value to US$3.5 million. This figure compares with an initial investment of the order of
US$10 million spread over five years, resulting very rapidly in a positive cash flow, and a capital-output
ratio of about 3.0. Even if the number of animals reached by the health services were 25 percent below
the initial projections, the capital-output ratio would still be 4, comparable to that for the best rural
projects, and the cash flow would still be rapidly positive.
5.09   Financial considerations. The incomes of the 7,000 herder families reached by the project's
health component would rise in step with the increase in herd yields, i.e. for an average herd of 100 head
by US$510/year, equal to about US$50/person. In addition, the mutual savings and loan measures to
assist the most disadvantaged herders would enable them to avoid the current capital depletion of some
two percent of their stock a year. Given success, that would represent an improvement in the financial
situation of a herder owning 50 head of about US$425/year. In view, however, of the negative
experience with rural credit in Africa, there is a serious risk that success in this area will be lower (or
will materialize later). If successful, the component would boost the value of milk production, to the
benefit of the women, by the equivalent of about US$150/year, subject to a favorable evolution of the
domestic market.
Environmental Impact
5.10   A complete study of the impact of the project on the environment has been conducted under the
aegis of the Borrower (Annex 9 provides the chapter on mitigating measures). This study confirmed the
assumptions concerning the project's positive environmental impact postulated when it was first identified.
In its final form, the project takes the study's recommendations into consideration. If successful, the
project would have an appreciable favorable impact on the protection of the country's natural resources.
It would do so by promoting (a) training of professional groups and development of livestock activities
in the most suitable areas; (b) introduction of more rational forage and water resources management in
those areas, and (c) the preservation of a buffer zone which, while avoiding the transmission of East
Coast fever to western Africa, would enable the MEF to institute sound wildlife management. If
successful, the project would have a significant positive impact on the preservation of natural resources
in the country. The Government has taken measures to peacefully discourage herders from entering
seasonally into the ZIC. The project would address the various negative impact risks through measures
designed to (i) provide special assistance to the poorest herders so as to avoid the overgrazing their
situation could cause and train them in environmentally suitable techniques in developing alternative
farming activities; (ii) provide training for staff of the livestock sector agencies and institutions in
environmental management techniques; (iii) ensure that the alignments adopted for the ZAGROP access
roads do not promote a rush to occupy zones that have been protected up to now by their isolation, and
(iv) ensure appropriate management of the brushfire timetable, accompanied by deferment measures to
The animals were sold at an average price of US$170 before the devaluation of the CFA franc. On the local
market, the impact of the devaluation would be an initial reduction of 50 percent, followed by an increase of 40
percent due to expected inflation before the start of the program, giving a final price per animal sold of about
US$120.



- 38 -
reduce possible adverse consequences of uncontrolled fires. The available studies demonstrate the
positive overall impact of livestock activities in the sub-humid zone on the biomass, even if the latter is
not of a kind that lends itself to immediate economic utilization. The growing use of draft cultivation will
need to be monitored closely to ensure that, by increasing productivity of labor (currently the scarcest
productive resource), it does not trigger the expansion of crop farming into unsuitable areas with poor
soil resources. Finally, the environmental study stressed the need to institute human health preventive
measures, which would be addressed by specific activities under other financing operations of the donors.
Social Impact
5.11   The social justification for the proposed actions derives from (a) the various project activities
which would most benefit the most disadvantaged herders and give them greater stability in the occupation
and way of life best suited to them; (b) the attention given to development of women; and (c) the reduced
risk of land-tenure disputes between herders and villagers. Project activities with a poverty focus
comprise (i) the herd rebuilding grants (para. 2.25); (ii) the mutualistic savings and loan system, which
would be most relevant for the poorer herders as it would allow them to face emergency situations
without further depleting their small herds (para. 2.24); (iii) crop extension services, which would help
them diversify into agricultural production (para. 2.26); (iv) the reform of FNEC statutes, giving a
greater say than in the past to the grassroots herders (para. 2.19); and (v) greater land tenure security in
the ZAGROP areas (para. 2.17). The stronger role of the grassroots population, trained and organized
into GIPs and GIAPs, in managing the sector, should permit more equitable distribution of the benefits
generated by the proposed activities and by herding in general while allowing better allocation of public
resources to the services desired by the target population, such as education and health. The financing
and resulting increase of milk production would benefit mainly women, through the provision of storage,
processing and transportation facilities. Women would benefit in the same way as men from the
grassroots capacity development facilities. The establishment of the ZAGROPs would make it possible
to define clearly the respective rights of herders, farmers and hunters to the natural resources of their
region, to stabilize rural land use and, in consequence, to reduce the scope for potential disputes. It
would also, in the longer run, reduce movement by herders and thereby simplify the women's lives, allow
the children to attend school and facilitate access by larger numbers to public health services.
Risks
5.12   Generally speaking, the risks the proposed project involves are primarily political in nature. Its
success depends on a smooth transition to decentralized livestock management and phased transfer of
support services to the professional organizations and the private sector. In order to minimize these risks,
the political and administrative measures required for the development of the sector have already been
taken. Moreover, the grassroots capacity development service financed by the Credit would seek to
strengthen grassroots management and negotiating capacity. The timely implementation of the ZAGROP
component of the project depends on the Government's active support for the establishment of the AEAs
and their transformation at a later stage into ZAGROPs. During the preliminary years, the concept of
AEAs relying on contractual agreements between private entities, identifying and recognizing each other's
rights to local resources and agreeing on their joint management, would satisfactorily substitute for full-
fledged ZAGROPs. The co-financing of the project by the CAR's major donors and the supervisory role
they would exercise, in close collaboration with the Borrower, can be expected to foster efficient
implementation of the supportive political measures and transparent financial management of the sector.
The project calls for increased cooperation between the MAE and MEF, responsible for the environment,
with respect to the activities affecting the ZIC. The project will moreover have to take due account of
the climatic, social, institutional and commercial risks.



- 39 -
5.13   A prolonged drought in CAR's neighboring countries could trigger an additional inflow of grazers
and herds, with the consequent negative impact on animal and human health, civil safety, the economy
of the sector, and natural resource utilization. The proposed remedies comprise strengthened border
health controls, better dissemination of information through strengthening of the professional
organizations, and better services provided to the herders.
5.14   The social risks, such as that of deterioration of relations between autochthonous and allogenous
populations, are catered for through measures to (a) diversify the ethnic base of the professional
organizations; and (b) seek prior agreements between grassroots beneficiaries, based on a proper
understanding of their mutual interests stemming from (i) a stabilization of land-use rights; (ii) the
creation of trade flows between specialist producers, and (iii) equitable sharing of the benefits of the
improvements and services provided by the project. Any slowness in setting up the ZAGROPs--which
would require prior modification of the current law, would be compensated by proceeding with the
AEAs. The process of democratizing the professional entities could be hindered by reluctance on the part
of the traditional authorities already in place. The risk of failure by the professional organizations would
be reduced by a phasing-in of their responsibilities, accompanied by training and technical assistance
during the reorganization period, with special attention to financial management; the changes made in the
organizations' statutes so as to ensure equitable grassroots representation, and installing FIDE as the
organ of financial coordination of livestock-sector development activities. The measures designed to cope
with protracted weakness of the meat market comprise technological improvements aimed at reducing
production costs and special support for the most disadvantaged herders.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01   Conditions of effectiveness of the Credit. The effectiveness of the Credit would be subject to the
requirements that:
(a)   the director of FIDE be appointed, the balance of FDE accounts be transferred to FIDE
and the Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Borrower and FIDE be signed
(para. 2.13); and
(b)    conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan agreement will have been
complied with (para. 4.02).
6.02   Assurances obtained during the negotiations. The following assurances have been obtained during
the negotiations:
(a)   technical and financial monitoring of FIDE would be performed in accordance with
arrangements agreed on with the Association (para. 2.13);
(b)   the mutual savings and loan scheme would be established by December 31, 1995 and the
scheme would be managed by a competent and experienced entity under contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Association (para. 2.15);
(c)    within two years after the Credit's effectiveness, the Borrower would (i) draft model
statutes and regulations for the ZAGROPs, and (ii) submit amendments to the legislation
governing the ZAGROPs to Parliament, defining the new objectives of the ZAGROPs
and the procedures for their establishment (para. 2.16);



- 40 -
(d)   the Borrower shall carry out a legal and sociological study aimed at streamlining the
current procedure for establishing new ZAGROPs and providing land tenure security to
the herders and farmers established in the zone and submit its results before December
31, 1996 to IDA for review and comments (para. 2.17);
(e)   the statutes of FNEC would not be amended without prior consultation with the
Association (para. 2.19);
(f)   the Borrower would carry out a study of traditional subsistence and commercial hunting
patterns with a view to improve the sustainability of traditional hunting in the ZIC, and
submit by June 30, 1996 its results to IDA (para 2.28);
(g)   the annual training plans would be updated and submitted to the Association for
agreement by October 31 of the previous year (para. 2.31);
(h)   the annual development plans of the ZAGROPs would be presented to the Association
by October 31 of each year (para. 3.11);
(i)    ACDA would make three food crop specialists available to ANDE (para. 3.13);
(j)    by April 30 of each year, the Borrower would prepare and submit to IDA a report
detailing how the training program and the ZAGROP development action plan were
executed, the results achieved, the difficulties encountered and the measures taken to
resolve them; a mid-term review would be implemented not later than December 31,
1997 (para. 3.19); and
(k)   the Borrower would make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to FIDE under the
Subsidiary Financial Agreement entered between the Borrower and FIDE under terms and
conditions approved by IDA (para. 4.02).
6.03   Condition of disbursement. Evidence satisfactory to IDA that the herd rebuilding scheme has
been developed in accordance with a prior study of the conditions of access and procedures for allocating
herd rebuilding funds and monitoring their use would be a condition of disbursement of the component
(para. 3.10).
6.04   Recommendation. Subject to the foregoing assurances and conditions, the project would qualify
for an IDA Credit of US$16.6 million.



- 41 -
Annex no. 1
page 1 of 3
ANNEX 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND RANGELAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TARGET GROUP
Socio-Economic Conditions
1.    In 1990, the basic family unit of transhumant herders, including the male head of the unit, his
spouse(s) and their children, averaged 10.8 persons. Families have been classified according to the
number of animals in their herds, and a strong correlation has been found between herd size and several
socio-economic indicators. Families with less than 100 cattle, category 1, make up 53% of all household
units. Based on a total estimate of 20,000 households of transhumant herders, this would thus correspond
to some 10,600 families. Those with more than 100 but less than 200 cattle, category 2, include 31%
of all households, or a total number of 6,200, while families with more than 200 cattle, category 3,
account for 16% of the total households, or 3,200 units.
2.    Family size differs by category. It is 8.8 persons for category 1, 12.0 persons for category 2,
and 14.5 persons for category 3. A refinement in these indicators can be made according to whether the
household is solely engaged in livestock production or if it also practices crop production. The degree
of polygamy also varies with the size of the herd. While 34% of the household heads in category 1 have
more than 1 spouse, this reaches 65% in category 2 and 80% in category 3. These statistics reflect the
cyclical nature of the poverty status of herders through their life, the ones with the fewest cattle often
being young men who have just started a family, and therefore have only one spouse. There is a clear
division of labor between the male members of the household and the women. The latter are practically
all involved in milking the cows and processing the milk. The men perform all the other tasks, such as
herding or removing the ticks and the general care of the animals.
Table 1. Average household size (number of family members)
Pure herders         Agro-pastoralists           Average
Owning less than 100 cattle         6.3                        10.3                  8.8
Owning from 100 to 200 cattle       9.2                        13.4                 12.0
Owning more than 200 cattle        12.3                        17.1                 14.5
Production and Income
3.    A significant difference in production and income exists between household categories. Category
1 households have on average a herd of 56 heads, in category 2 of 133 heads, and in category 3 of 311
heads. Taking into account the differences in household size, this works out to 6.4 heads per capita in
category 1, 11,2 in category 2 and 21.5 in category 3. In the present market conditions, it is reckoned
that at least 10 to 11 cattle per person are necessary to ensure sustainability and a minimum income for



- 42 -
Annex no. 1
page 2 of 3
the family. It thus appears that in the smallest herd category, with an average of 56 cattle for an average
family of 8.8, or 6.3 cattleper capita, sustainability cannot be achieved if the household were to depend
solely on livestock as their source of income. This can also be demonstrated by the offtake rates
observed.
Table 2. Offtake and marketing rates by herd size
(% of total herd)
less than 100 heads    100 to 200 heads    more than 200 heads
Marketing rate 1985          14.6                  7.7                   5.8
Marketing rate 1990          15.1                  11.2                  6.8
Offtake rate 1990            17.4                  13.6                 10.1
4.     Table 2 shows that marketing rates have increased from 1985 to 1990. This is due to a decline
of about 10% in the market price as a result of falling regional demand and the competition of cheap
imports reaching neighboring countries from the EEC. The offtake rates comprises the marketed animals,
taxes and gifts in kind and limited family consumption, and result in a figure some 20% higher than
marketing rates. Of the difference between the two, the religious tax imposed by the traditional chiefs
(zakat) represents 54%, administrative levies, 15%, and fines, 10%. The average productivity of a herd
has been estimated at 13% per year. Table 2 thus shows that category 1 and 2 herders are in a process
of decrease of assets. Results from earlier studies show similar offtake rates, which seem to confirm that
this is a chronic process of asset dilution.
Crop Production
5.     As a result of these trends, an increasing tendency to diversify the economic activities of the
traditional herder households into crop production has been observed. The two main reasons given by
the herders for this are the rising prices of consumption goods and livestock inputs and the lack of a
sufficient number of animals to sell. The latter factor arises out of (a) a small per capita herd size; or
(b) the need to save animals to ensure a sustainable herd size for the heirs of the family. As can be
expected, the importance of agriculture in a herder's household is a function of the household's herd size
and the family size. Thus, an overall 54% of all households are engaged in crop production, but this
varies between 79% for households with I to 5 cattle per member to 10% of households with more than
30 cattle per member. The average area cultivated is of 0.7 ha, which yields a production of 2.5 tons
of cassava and a reduction of per capita food expenditure of 32% on average, or 11,850 CFA Francs
before devaluation. Engagement in crop production has a noticeable effect on the settlement pattern of
the household during the dry season, but the overall mobility has not been affected, as households move
their camps every 6.4 years.
Agro-pastoralists
6.     Agro-pastoralists are crop farmers who gradually engage in a mixed farming system including
livestock in it. They thus represent the opposite trend to the herders gradually engaging in crop
production. A partial survey in the North-West indicates an average cattle herd size of 20, with 41 % of



- 43 -
Annex no. 1
page 3 of 3
the households owning 6.3 animals. The average family size is 10.2 persons. Cattle is mostly bought
at a relatively young age, less than three years, using the proceeds from crop production (41 % of the
cattle owning households grew a cash crop) and from trade. The handling and care of the cattle is largely
done by the head of the household and his sons. However, only a small fraction (22%) of these
households milk their cows, which is then done by the women. About 80% of the households obtain the
required veterinary medicines from the pharmacies of the GIPs or from the FNEC depots. The marketing
rate is of about 10%. In the absence of detailed household income estimates, their per capita income is
believed to be in the range of 40,000 to 60,000 CFA Francs.
Income and Poverty
7.    The monetary income of herder households varies with the size of the herd. The per capita
figures show that there is practically no income difference between the Category 1 and 2 populations, and
that the difference with Category 3 households is of only 35 %, where the offtake rate is, however, much
lower. In all categories, the overwhelming share of income (92 or 93%) is generated by the sale of
animals. Milk sales add another 3% to the total income, and small stock yields another 1 %. The rest
is earned from small trade, handicrafts and crop production. The Bank estimates the per capita GDP in
the CAR at around $410, or FCFA 120,000. The income of categories 1 and 2 thus represent about 50%
of the average GDP of the country. As these two types of population make up 84% of all herding
households, it can be assumed that at least half of them, or about 40% of all herders are below the
poverty line of half the national per capita GDP.
Table 3. Family Income
(Category 1         Category 2    _       Category 3
('000 FCFA)  (US $) ('000 FCFA)  (US$) ('000 FCFA)  (US $)
Family income         550          2.2     750          3.0     1,240               5.0
Individual income      62.7                 62.9                  85.7
Target GrouD
8.    The project would focus its support on all herders and agro-pastoralists, which, together, would
include about 25,000 households. With an average household size of 10.8 persons, this would include
about 270,000 people. All these households have incomes below the average per capita GDP and it can
be reckoned that 40% of them are below a poverty level of 50% the per capita GDP. As herd
accumulation is an essential element for the sustainability of a family livestock production system, where
the assets are divided among the inheriting sons, the income levels of even the better endowed households
are still about 20% below the average of the country. Within this wider target group, the project would
give special emphasis to women along with the poorest households.






- 45 -
Annex no. 2
page 1 of 7
ANNEX 2
REPUBLIOUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROJET DE LETTRE DE DECLARATION DE POLITIOUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE
L'ELEVAGE
I. Objectifs de la politigue du secteur de l'elevage
1.    L'elevage pastoral fournit l'une des principales richesses de la Republique Centrafricaine (RCA),
engendrant une forte activite commerciale monetarisee repondant I la demande locale ainsi qu'aux
marches d'exportation. Le gouvernement centrafricain entend poursuivre et intensifier les efforts humains,
techniques et financiers en faveur du secteur de l'elevage. Les actions futures du gouvernement reposeront
sur les acquis politiques et techniques de la derniere decennie. Elles s'inscrivent dans le cadre de la
politique de liberalisation, de privatisation et de decentralisation adoptee par l'Etat.
2.    Les activites anterieures du gouvernement centrafricain ont conduit, avec l'appui de ses principaux
bailleurs de fonds, (a) a la creation et a la structuration de l'Agence Nationale pour le Developpement
de l'Elevage (ANDE) avec un effort de professionnalisation et de formation de ses agents ; et (b) au
developpement de la Feddration Nationale des Eleveurs Centrafricains (FNEC), structure professionnelle
originale qui a pour acquis principaux la creation de 179 groupements de base (GIP) et la mise en place
de 25 depots regionaux de distribution d'intrants d'elevage. Ainsi, la RCA a ete le premier pays de la
region oti les eleveurs ont dispose de fa&on reguliere des produits pharmaceutiques veterinaires et autres
intrants indispensables a leur profession sans intervention ou monopole de l'Etat. II en a resulte une
augmentation sensible de la production animale et du nombre d'eleveurs utilisant l'espace national.
3 .    Ces resultats ont ete obtenus malgre un environnement economique defavorable au niveau de toute
la region. Certains objectifs exigent, pour etre pleinement atteints, la poursuite d'un effort important.
Leur realisation entrainera, entre autres, une evolution de la conception initiale majoritairement pastorale,
vers une collaboration accrue entre eleveurs transhumants et sedentaires d'une part et les agriculteurs et
chasseurs d'autre part, sans pour autant diminuer l'effort en faveur de l'elevage pastoral. II s'agit,
notamnment:
-     d'un developpement accru des systemes d'elevage sedentaires de gros et de petits
animaux;
-     de la securisation fonciere des populations des zones pastorales;
-     de l'amelioration de la gestion des ressources pastorales;
-     du renflouement des exploitations pastorales fragilisees par la crise ou d'une assistance
a leur reconversion I des activites agricoles sedentaires;
-     de la politique d'amelioration genetique, en particulier dans l'espece bovine; et
-     du developpement du concept d'association agriculture/elevage (petit elevage a la ferme,
traction animale,...).
4.    Ces objectifs seront poursuivis par le biais d'une collaboration accrue entre les organisations du
secteur public, principalement I'ANDE, mais aussi d'autres agences dependant du Ministere de
l'agriculture et de l'elevage (MAE) et celles du secteur prive, telles que la FNEC. II est prevu, k terme,



- 46 -
Annex no. 2
page 2 of 7
d'y faire participer les organisations d'autres professions du secteur de l'elevage (I'Association
centrafricaine des commercants de bdtail--ACCB--et l'Association nationale des bouchers centrafricains--
ANBC) une fois celles-ci suffisamment representatives de leur profession, techniquement et
financierement solides et degagees de la tutelle initiale de l'Etat. Le gouvernement veillera au
renforcement technique et financier et a la democratisation de ces organisations professionnelles afin que
les services essentiels au secteur puissent etre assures sans pour cela augmenter le volume de la fonction
publique ou le recours a des ressources budgetaires complementaires. L'encouragement au developpement
d'une distribution privee des intrants d'elevage a travers le reseau de la FNEC sera maintenu, sans
exclusive d'autres systemes prives d'importation et de distribution, notammnent a l'attention des eleveurs
peri-urbains.
5.     Les objectifs de meilleure gestion des ressources pastorales, de s6curisation fonciere, de meilleure
integration de l'elevage dans l'espace rural centrafricain en vue d'une collaboration economique et sociale
entre eleveurs et agriculteurs seront facilites par la mise en place d'Associations d'eleveurs et agriculteurs
(AEA), de nature contractuelle et reconnues formellement par l'Etat, dans des zones qui ont ete deja
identifiees avec leur participation, ceci en vue de la creation ulterieure de Zones d'action agro-pastorale
(ZAGROP). La formalisation du Fonds de developpement de l'elevage instaure dans le cadre du pr6cedent
projet finance par les bailleurs de fonds sous forme d'un Fonds interprofessionnel de developpement de
l'elevage (FIDE), reconnu d'interet public, dote de la personnalite juridique et regroupant l'ensemble des
organisations du secteur, permettra de mieux percevoir, canaliser et coordonner l'usage des redevances
perSues localement ou de fonds mis a la disposition du FIDE par l'Etat sur financement des bailleurs de
fonds.
6.     Afin d'eviter d'une part la confusion qui existe actuellement entre les activites commerciales des
GIP et de la FNEC et le role social que ceux-ci ont ete amends a jouer par la fourniture de certains
intrants a credit et afin de repondre d'autre part aux besoins de financement identifies, un systeme de
credit mutuel sera mis en place, avec l'appui d'une organisation specialisee. Par ailleurs, une partie des
fonds du FIDE sera affectee temporairement au financement de la reconstitution des troupeaux des
eleveurs en cours de decapitalisation. Une etude preliminaire sera entreprise pour determiner les modalites
de cette assistance et l'interat de l'adoption du systeme de "passing on the gift" en cette matiere. D'une
maniere generale, les dispositions seront prises pour limiter les ingerences de l'Etat dans la gestion des
organismes professionnels, tout en prenant les garanties necessaires pour assurer la regularite de l'emploi
des fonds publics de diverses origines et en apportant aux organisations professionnelles le soutien
technique dont elles ont encore besoin. Ces mesures garantissent le maintien et l'accroissement des acquis
des precedents projets, en tenant compte des difficultes et des risques identifies et de l'evolution socio-
politique recente du pays.
II. Actions specifiques
Mise en place du FIDE
7.     En application de la politique de desengagement de l'Etat et de renforcement des organisations
professionnelles, et en vue d'assurer la perennite des mecanismes de financement du secteur de l'levage,
un Fonds interprofessionnel de developpement de l'elevage (FIDE) sera etabli formellement et doud de
la personnalite juridique et de l'autonomie financiere. En raison du caractere sectoriel et professionnel
des redevances constituant les seules ressources perennes du FIDE, ce fonds sera gere par un comite



- 47 -
Annex no. 2
page 3 of 7
constitue majoritairement de representants des organisations professionnelles et agences de l'Etat
intervenant dans le secteur de l'elevage. Toutefois, en raison du caractere public des apports financiers
effectues par l'Etat I partir du budget national ou de credits et de dons des bailleurs de fonds, et pendant
la duree de ces apports, I'Etat disposerait d'un droit de regard sur la gestion de ces fonds. Les bailleurs
de fonds et le Ministere du Plan auraient un role d'observateur aupres du FIDE aussi longtemps qu'ils
contribueraient I son financement.
8.     Le FIDE, en tant qu'institution financiere, se verra deleguer (a) la collecte des redevances et taxes
sectorielles ; (b) la gestion financiere de ces ressource ; (c) leur affectation concertee a des operations
d'investissement et de developpement de l'elevage dont l'execution est confiee aux institutions membres
du FIDE, ceci sur la base d'une evaluation des propositions formulees par les institutions membres ; et
(d) le suivi financier de ces operations. Les operations financees par le FIDE concerneraient:
-      la mise en place des infrastructures et equipements necessaires au developpement du
secteur;
-      I'animation mutualiste et la formation des membres et des cadres des groupements
d'eleveurs et d'agro-pasteurs;
-      la vulgarisation visant a l'amelioration de la gestion des ressources naturelles et au
developpement de l'association de l'agriculture et de I'elevage ; et
-      sur ses ressources propres et I titre de solidarite sociale:
-      la constitution, pendant une periode limitee dans le temps, d'un fonds de
garantie du credit mutuel fourni aux eleveurs les plus demunis ; et
-      un apport complementaire de l'apport personnel des beneficiaires dans le
cadre du programme de financement de la reconstitution des troupeaux.
9.    L'administration du FIDE sera assuree par un Comite interprofessionnel de coordination (CIC)
appuye par une Unite de coordination technique et financiere (UCTF). Le CIC sera constitue de
repr6sentants de la FNEC, de l'ANDE, des autres organisations professionnelles du secteur (ACCB et
ANBC) lorsqu'elles auront rempli les conditions d'admission, et d'un representant du MAE avec droit
de veto. Son president sera designe par un vote de ses membres. L'UCTF sera une structure legere
comprenant un directeur, cadre national de haut niveau, propose par le MAE a l'approbation du CIC et
des bailleurs de fonds, ayant une competence etendue en matiere de l'elevage et de gestion de projet. II
sera assiste par un conseiller technique recrute au plan international et disposant de son visa sur tous les
engagements du FIDE pendant la duree des financements exterieurs. Le directeur de l'UCTF sera appuye
par un responsable administratif et financier assiste d'un secretariat et d'un comptable caissier.
L'ANDE
10.    L'ANDE est chargee d'assurer les fonctions perennes de l'Etat dans les domaines relevant de sa
competence. L'encadrement technique et administratif de l'elevage est donc confie a l'ANDE, responsable
de la lutte contre les maladies contagieuses, du controle de qualite des produits animaux et, jusqu'a
reprise de cette fonction par la FNEC, de la vulgarisation zootechnique en vue d'une meilleure gestion
des ressources pastorales.
11.    Sante animale. Dans ce domaine, le role de l'Etat est essentiellement preventif, en assurant la
protection du cheptel contre les epidemies majeures qui mettraient son existence en peril. Il revient a
l'ANDE:



- 48 -
Annex no, 2
page 4 of 7
-      de mettre en place un reseau de postes frontaliers capables de controler les mouvements
du betail d'elevage ou de commerce;
-      d'organiser la logistique des campagnes de vaccinations contre la peste bovine,
obligatoires et payantes, et d'assurer une surveillance continue de leur efficacite par la
realisation d'enquetes serologiques;
-      d'ameliorer les connaissances sur les autres maladies contagieuses et les enzooties et, si
necessaire, de mener des campagnes specifiques de lutte soit nationale soit ponctuelle;
et
-      d'evaluer l'efficacite des interventions faites par et sous la responsabilite des eleveurs,
d'en mesurer l'impact et, si necessaire, de proposer des methodes ou produits plus
appropries.
12.    Sante publigue. L'inspection des produits d'origine animale est une fonction perenne qui, dans
la majorite des cas, sera assuree par des agents de I'ANDE.
13.    Gestion des ressources pastorales. L'ANDE aura pour responsabilite majeure de participer a la
mise au point et d'assurer la vulgarisation des themes les mieux adaptes a la preservation de la
productivite des savanes. Dans ce but, elle sollicitera la collaboration active des beneficiaires potentiels
dans l'identification des themes et la realisation des essais correspondants sur le terrain, celle de l'Institut
centrafricain de recherche agricole (ICRA) dans le domaine de la recherche adaptative reposant sur les
travaux dejb realises dans les centres internationaux de recherche et celle de l'Agence centrafricaine pour
le developpement agricole (ACDA) pour la diversification des activites des eleveurs sedentarises. II s'agit
en la matiare d'une part d'aider les eleveurs ne disposant pas d'un troupeau suffisant pour en vivre, a
developper leurs competences en matiere de productions vivrieres pour subvenir a leur besoins, et d'autre
part, d'aider les agriculteurs desireux de diversifier leurs activites, a entreprendre ou developper des
dlevages de petits ruminants et de bovins. Le soutien technique aux agro-eleveurs pour les productions
vegetales sera assure en collaboration avec I'ACDA, qui affectera a l'ANDE trois techniciens specialises
en cultures vivribres. Reciproquement, les zootechniciens de I'ANDE bases au niveau regional
apporteront leur soutien au reseau de vulgarisation de 1'ACDA en matiere de petit elevage et de culture
attelee.
14.    Mise en place des ZAGROP. La decentralisation des decisions en matiere de gestion des
ressources naturelles s'effectuera au niveau administratif par delegation au MAE des competences
reglementaires. Au niveau du terrain, seront mises en place de procedures d'affectation de droits d'usage
reposant sur I'analyse prealable des droits reconnus par les beneficiaires eux-mames, et leur officialisation
par l'Administration. L'experience acquise a montre que le concept de gestion conservatoire et concert6e
des ressources naturelles etait bien percu par les agro-pasteurs, mais que les procedures mises en oeuvre
n'impliquaient pas suffisamment les autres utilisateurs du terroir, presentaient une lourdeur administrative
excessive, et etaient d'une dimension geographique excessive par rapport aux structures sociales des
beneficiaires. Une reforme de la legislation foncibre fera l'objet d'ici au 31 decembre 1996 d'une etude
juridique et sociologique visant a simplifier la procedure actuelle de creation de ZAGROP et a donner
la securite foncicre aux agriculteurs et eleveurs etablis dans ces zones. En attendant, et dans le cadre
reglementaire existant, la concertation entre occupants des terroirs agro-pastoraux sera encouragee, pour
conduire a des accords prives d'association pour la gestion des ressources naturelles entre les differents
ayant-droit. Les AEA ainsi constituees pourront beneficier d'une aide aux equipements I caractere social
(points d'eau villageois, infrastructures diverses), ou economique (voies d'accds, equipements pastoraux).
L'unite de base sera a la mesure des besoins de collectivites a caractere familial. La methodologie



- 49 -
Annex no. 2
page 5 of 7
d'approche pour la reconnaissance des droits traditionnels et l'organisation de la gestion des terroirs
s'inspirera de celle appliquee avec succes en Cote d'Ivoire.
15.    La ZAGROP etant un ensemble geographiquement important, de l'ordre de 40.000 ha en
moyenne, et les groupements humains qui l'occupent etant relativement disperses, les experiences menees
depuis 1991 amenent a promouvoir la notion d'Unite pastorale (UP), de dimension de 10 a 20 fois plus
reduite (3.000 a 5.000 ha) confide, en matiere d'elevage a un groupe restreint et homogene, celui du
sakike, qui apparait susceptible de s'imposer la discipline indispensable a la mise en application des
themes essentiels:
-      mise en defens au moment de la saison des pluies, les parcelles n'etant exploitees qu'une
ann6e sur deux;
-      pratique rationnelle des differents feux pastoraux (precoces, courants et tardifs) ; et
-      respect des capacites de charge, le tout selon la specificite des differents domaines
climatiques et agronomiques.
Les organisations professionnelles du secteur
16.    Dans le cadre de sa politique de liberalisation, de privatisation et de desengagement, l'Etat
apportera son soutien a l'emergence et au renforcement des organisations professionnelles d'eleveurs et
d'operateurs du secteur et leur confiera au fur et a mesure de l'accroissement de leur capacite les activites
a caractere productif ou commercial qu'il a dG assumer jusque la par carence du secteur prive. Il pourra
egalement leur deleguer la maitrise d'interventions a caractere public pour lesquelles elles jouiront d'un
avantage comparatif et leur affecter en consequence les ressources necessaires. L'Etat apportera par
ailleurs un appui a ces organisations pour la mise en place de structures democratiques, transparentes et
efficaces.
17.    Concernant la FNEC, I'Etat poursuivra l'effort entrepris pour aider la Federation a moderniser
ses structures. La FNEC est une organisation professionnelle independante et cette independance doit etre
garantie par l'Etat. Cependant, il incombe a ce dernier de veiller a ce que la politique et le
fonctionnement de la FNEC restent conformes a ses objectifs initiaux, qui sont de contribuer au bien-etre
de ses membres en favorisant le developpement de leur activite principale, l'elevage. Par ailleurs, il est
necessaire que la FNEC s'ouvre plus largement aux autres producteurs que ceux rattaches au systeme
pastoral, dans la mesure ou ceux-ci tirent le principal de leur revenu de leurs activites de production
animale. L'Etat encouragera l'adoption des statuts ayant fait l'objet d'un accord de principe avec les
bailleurs de fonds, ceci en prealable a la presentation du Credit pour le developpement de I'elevage et
la gestion des parcours au Conseil d'Administration de l'IDA. Ces statuts refletent les principes ci-dessus
par (a) une representation majoritaire des structures de base du secteur ; (b) la prise en compte, avec une
importance plus limitee, des autorites traditionnelles, tout en eliminant les membres de droits ou les
membres "designes" de son Conseil ; (c) le maintien du MAE en tant que conseiller technique; et (d)
la restructuration de l'organisation pour distinguer entre les structures de representativite et les structures
d'execution. Les fonctions d'animation mutualiste, remplies de par le passe par I'ANDE, ont ddja ete
transferees a la FNEC. II est prevu que dans les annees qui viennent, celles de vulgarisation zootechnique
lui soient aussi confides.



- 50 -
Annex no, 2
page 6 of 7
18.    Concernant l'ACCB et l'ANBC, I'Etat leur apportera son soutien et les encouragera I acquerir
des statuts, des competences et la maturite juridique necessaires pour prendre part plus activement I la
restructuration du secteur et au fonctionnement du FIDE.
Le credit mutuel et l'assistance aux eleveurs demunis
19.    Le credit mutuel. Compte tenu de I'absence de structures bancaires ou de credit en milieu rural,
sauf en ce qui concerne les cultures de rente et des interventions ponctuelles de certains projets, I'Etat
apportera son soutien a la mise en place d'un systeme de credit mutuel au benefice des groupements
d'eleveurs et agro-eleveurs mais geres independamment de ces groupements par une institution
specialis6e. L'Etat aura recours aux financements exterieurs pour prendre en charge l'intervention des
prestataires charg6s de mettre en place le systeme. II s'abstiendra par contre de toute intervention
susceptible de compromettre la viabilite et la perennite du systeme, telle que la fixation arbitraire de
parametres bancaires (taux d'interet, plafond, duree, apports exterieurs au capital du systeme,...).
20.    L'aide a la reconstitution des troupeaux. Les contraintes actuelles de marche necessitent qu'une
attention particuliere soit portee a la situation des eleveurs les plus pauvres. La decapitalisation qu'ils ont
connue necessite la mise en place de moyens financiers pour la reconstitution de leurs troupeaux. Dans
ses debuts, I'epargne locale ne disposera pas, surtout les premieres annees, des ressources financieres et
de gestion necessaires pour financer la reconstitution de ces troupeaux. Afin de sauvegarder la rigueur
du systeme de credit mutuel et de ne pas remettre en cause les principes visant I garantir sa perennite,
la reconstitution des troupeaux, d'une importance particuliere dans la lutte contre la pauvrete et le
maintien d'un mode de vie traditionnel, fera l'objet de modalites particulieres et d'une gestion separee.
Un apport initial des beneficiaires repondant aux criteres retenus, de l'ordre de 10% du coOt des animaux
a acheter, serait complete par un don equivalent du FIDE. L'Etat s'engage a fournir le reste sous forme
de don, pour lequel il sollicite un financement des bailleurs de fonds. La gestion du financement de la
reconstitution des troupeaux serait assuree par le FIDE en ce qui concerne I'affectation des fonds, la
FNEC, sur recommandation des GIP, pour l'identification des beneficiaires bona fide et I'ANDE pour
le suivi de la bonne utilisation des fonds reserves a cet usage. Les conditions d'acces a des dons consentis
pour la reconstitution du cheptel et les modalites d'affectation et de suivi de l'utilisation des fonds feront
l'objet d'une etude prealable realis6e par des consultants specialises sous la supervision de I'ANDE et de
la FNEC. L'etude portera en particulier sur la factibilite et l'utilite d'introduire l'approche ayant fait ses
preuves ailleurs en Afrique de "passing on the gift", exigeant que le beneficiaire du don, une fois sa
situation financiere amelioree, en fasse beneficier d'autres eleveurs en position difficile.
21.    Les prelevements abusifs de betail. Les prelevements abusifs de betail, effectues sous couvert
d'imperatifs religieux ou autres par les autorit6s coutumieres et administratives, ont largement contribue
a l'appauvrissement d'une importante proportion d'eleveurs, mettant en peril la survie de nombreuses
exploitations. Les abus d'ordre confessionnel ayant e  en principe supprimes I la suite de l'intervention
d'un expert en la matiere, I'Etat interviendra chaque fois que necessaire pour sanctionner tout prdl6vement
injustifie et encouragera la diffusion des informations relatives aux droits et devoirs reels des eleveurs.
La protection des zones d'interet cynegetigue
22.    Pour eviter le renouvellement d'incursions de troupeaux dans la zone cynegetique couvrant l'est
du pays et apres le succes de la mission d'explication confiee A un consultant au mois de juin 1994, I'Etat
veillera, en s'appuyant sur I'ANDE et la FNEC, I ce que les eleveurs restent avertis de ce que leur



- 51 -
Annex no, 2
page 7 of 7
presence dans la zone cynegetique est illdgale. Des mesures eventuelles, telles que l'ouverture de depots
de medicaments ou de postes veterinaires pourront etre mises en oeuvre pour les encourager I rester dans
la zone banale.
23.   L'Etat s'engage par ailleurs a effectuer avant le 30 juin 1996 une etude permettant d'identifier
et evaluer les pratiques de chasse commerciale dans la zone cynegetique afin d'ameliorer la perennite de
la chasse traditionnelle. Les villageois de la zone participeront a la conception et a l'execution d'un
programme de developpement du petit elevage dans la region, a la delimitation des zones de chasse et
a l'organisation de safaris visuels ou de chasse et seront interesses aux benefices decoulant de ces
activites.
Fait a Washington
le 26 juillet 1994
pour le Gouvernement
le Ministrede I'agricultureet del'elevage
Gabriel Dotte Badekara






- 53 -
Anex No. 3
Page 1 of 8
ANNEX 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND RANGELAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
1.    The major institutions of the livestock sector of the Central African Republic (CAR) comprise
(a) grassroots groups, the Groupements d'inter&t pastoral (GIP) and their federations (FELGIP); (b)
professional organizations, i.e., mainly the Federation nationale des eleveurs centrafricains (FNEC) and,
more recently the livestock traders (ACCB) and butchers associations (ANBC); and (c) the National
Livestock Agency of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (ANDE). The changing socio-economic
environment of the CAR requires that adjustments be made in the institutional framework of the sector.
2.    Public support to the livestock sector was initiated in 1933 through an animal health service which
supported Bororo herders who had started to move into the country from 1920 onwards, mainly from
Chad, Sudan and Cameroun. The objective of the service, apart from improving the health standard of
the herds, was to gain the herders' trust and help them integrate in the rural society. In 1957, the
introduction of a small number of trypano-tolerant Baoule cattle was undertaken, also with the purpose
of creating a potential for the use of animal traction in crop production. After the Reforme agraire in
1970, the capabilities of the Livestock Service were severely reduced, and the initiative was taken to
create the National Association of Central African Herders (ANEC), which was formally established in
July 1973. Membership was open to all herders who regularly paid their fees. The main activity of the
ANEC was the provision of veterinary inputs.
I. GRASSROOTS GROUPS (GIP and FELGIP)
Background
3.    The first GIPs were set up with the support of the Western Livestock Development Project in
1983. Group activities focused on the distribution of veterinary drugs through the establishment of a local
pharmacy by their members. This met an immediate and effective demand of most herders. The
provision of supplies was organized within the project structures. Group development in a social
environment characterized by a strong sense of hierarchy and by an effective traditional authority is a
notoriously difficult undertaking. Thus, most of the functioning of the GIPs has not been group related:
there is, for example, no price discrimination in the sale of drugs to non-members. The crucial reason
for group action was the initial mobilization of the resources to start the proposed activities. The interest
for group formation was also enhanced by the provision to their members of training in simple diagnostic
and treatment. This training, which has mostly dealt with the operational aspects of veterinary pharmacy,
should be extended to train the groups to expand into other activities.
4.    By November 1993, some 172 GIPs were active with a total membership of about 4,350, or 17%
of the estimated number of 25,000 transhumant and sedentary herder households. Membership of the
GIPs is rather heterogeneous according to summary data from a sample of 18 GIPs in 1990. Seven
percent of the members are large traders. Three quarters of the herders have herds smaller than 100



- 54 -
Annex No. 3
Page 2 of 8
heads. The average household size is of 10.4 persons. Some 55% of the members are literate in Arabic
script. More recently, a few Groupements d'interets agro-pastoraux (GIAP) were created, bringing
together herders and farmers engaged in livestock production (mostly small livestock or poultry). The
GIAPs do not currently have formal statutes, but could adopt those of the GIPs. Insofar as the GIAPs
share common interests with the GIPs and would be integrated within the FNEC alongside them, there
would be no further need for distinguishing between the two types of groups.
5.    The second most important input in livestock production is salt and "natron." Groups of four to
five GIPs have established themselves into FELGIPs, which they have provided with a revolving fund
for the purpose of grouped procurement of livestock inputs and, where required, consumer goods. So
far 12 FELGIP have been established, regrouping 45 GIPs.
Objectives
6.    The objectives of the GIPs are "lI'entraide entre tleveurs," by all operations which could improve
their living standards, defend their interests and promote the development of livestock. Specific fields
of operations include the supply of veterinary drugs, extension and marketing. They also have the
possibility of attributing an exclusive right of pasture areas against a cahier de charges (specifications)
established by the Administration.
Legal status of the GIPs and FELGIPs
7.    The legal status of a GIP is defined as that of a non-profit organization, governed by the Law
61.233 of May 1961. This law allows the association to carry out commercial operations and cover all
costs. A remuneration on capital, not exceeding equivalent market interest rates, can be distributed to
the members. This limit has not proven to be a constraint until now. The association has a legal
personality if its founding members declare it to the local authorities and it is approved by the Ministry
of Interior. Associations recognized of "public utility" (after having existed for two years and its
activities being recognized of interest for the whole country) can receive funds from the State budget.
The GIPs do not currently meet the requirements to establish themselves as Cooperative Societies, in
particular the requirement for commercial bookkeeping according to the plan comptable. They are thus
considered as pre-cooperative groups, but could at a later stage become full-fledged cooperatives.
8.    On the other hand, there is some confusion as to whether the conditions of Law 61.233 have been
met by the GIPs, to make them a non-profit association. Their statutes were officially published under
a decree of the then Ministry of Rural Development, whereas the law requires their recognition by the
Ministry of Interior. Furthermore, the preamble of their statutes refers only to laws on cooperatives,
which need approval by the Ministry of Cooperatives, even though the decree by the Ministry of Rural
Development refers to an association status. Finally, the decree states that herders who become members
of a GIP are placed under the authority of the mayors of the Livestock Communities. This confers an
authority on these mayors, which they should not have, on the commercial operations of an association.
There is thus a need to make official the statutes of the GIPs through the proper procedures, i.e., through
the Ministry of Interior, and to remove Art. 3 of these statutes, which confers special rights on the
mayors.
9.     Similar considerations apply to the FELGIPs, whose statutes are currently being drafted. Art.
3 of these statutes states that the FELGIP constitutes the local representation of the FNEC and coordinates



- 55 -
Annex No. 3
Page 3 of 8
the activities undertaken by herder groups. This formulation reflects a top-down approach whereby the
FNEC unilaterally designates FELGIPs as its local representatives. Rather, the responsibilities of the
FELGIP in the FNEC structure should only follow a voluntary request by the FELGIP to become a
member of the FNEC. Only then, could they, as stated in the draft statutes, delegate two representatives
to the General Assembly of the FNEC, sell FNEC membership cards and ensure the management of the
local structures of the FNEC. The termination of a FELGIP should not be linked to that of the FNEC.
The public utility character of the FELGIP should be stated to allow it to receive funds from the national
budget. GIPs should independently decide on whether they want to become members of a FELGIP or
withdraw from it, and not be forced to do so through statements included in the statutes of the FELGIP.
All sanctions envisaged in the statutes against groups leaving the FELGIP have no legal ground. The
FELGIPs, like the GIPs, should, furthermore, be authorized to distribute, when feasible, returns on
capital.
10.   The proposed statutes of the FELGIPs include several membres de droit in their committees, such
as sector chiefs, mayors and the Sub-Prefect. These members do not have the right to vote but represent
a powerful group, which can "orient" the decisions of the committee. If FELGIPs are seen, as their
name implies, as a federation of GIPs, constituted to meet a need felt by the GIPs, there is no reason for
having ex officio members from the administration or the FNEC. External expertise should be brought
in only at the specific request of the president of the Board of the FELGIP. This Board should include
two elected participants from each member GIP, a single president (with no separate "Bureau"), a
secretary and a treasurer, elected without local authorities being present.
Relations with the FNEC
11.   Since the FNEC, as a national federation, existed before the GIPs were developed, there have
been some issues as to how to integrate the grassroots groups into a national structure. While the FNEC
formally recognizes the GIPs as its base units, the statutes of the GIPs do not specify their relation with
the FNEC. There are in fact arguments in favor of integrating a GIP into the FNEC only after the
former has made a specific request, supported by its General Assembly, in that sense. The provision of
services by the FNEC, mainly through the sale of veterinary inputs or training and extension, would
depend on whether a GIP has been recognized, and GIPs which decide not to become part of the FNEC
structure would not have access to these services. However, the FNEC should in any case provide
grassroots development services and inputs to these GIPs, during an initial period of up to one year, to
sensitize them to the advantages of the federation.
12.   At present, membership of the GIP and of the FNEC are two separate things, and one does not
automatically imply the other. A herder becomes a member of a GIP by contributing to its capital. The
decision to pay the FNEC for an annual membership card (10,000 CFA Francs until now) is completely
independent, and particularly small farmers have had difficulties affording the card. Membership in the
other organizations (ANCB and ACCB) is incompatible with FNEC membership, and this creates an issue
with respect to the large traders who are currently members of some GIPs.
13.   The GIPs can, according to available studies, continue operating under their current status. There
is a need, however, that the Borrower, within a reasonable lapse of time, ensure that the GIPs and
FELGIPs modify their statutes taking into consideration the above comments on their formal status, their
voluntary nature and their statutory relations with the FNEC.



- 56 -
Annex No. 3
Page 4 of 8
II. THE HERDERS FEDERATION (FNEC)
Background
14.   Initially, the distribution of veterinary drugs was undertaken by some 15 de'positaires, who sold
on behalf of ANEC stocks provided by it. Beginning in 1983, five mobile pharmacies, moving according
to a fixed calendar, replaced this system. With the establishment of GIPs, the system was again changed
in favor of regional depots from which the GIPs supplied their village pharmacies. The ANEC was
managed by a Committee including several Livestock Commune mayors and Inspectors from the
Livestock Service. The General Assembly included all the Livestock Commune mayors, with voting
rights proportional to the number of herders in their respective communes. With the creation of the
GIPs, the FNEC was established in November 1985 as a federation, and ANEC was dissolved. The
statutes of FNEC have been modified a number of times, the latest amendments dating from February
1993.
15.   The FNEC's General Assembly appoints a Conseil d'administration which is assisted by a
Technical Committee. A General Secretariat includes three departments, of finance, inputs and grassroots
development. The field structures include three regional directorates, 30 regional depots and about 80
representatives, spread through all sous-prefectures where herders are found. They are to represent local
herder interests, sensitize herders to form GIPs and collect membership, market and sanitary inspection
fees. The FNEC sells some 6,000 membership cards each year. Its total staff, in September 1993,
amounted to 155, of whom 36 at the Secretariat, 91 in the Inputs Department and 28 in the Grassroots
Development Department (DAM). They include nine civil servants, 141 contractual staff and five
technical assistants. Financial resources of the FNEC come from membership fees (60 to 65 million CFA
Francs) and the various market and inspection fees (220 to 230 million CFA Francs, shared equally with
ANDE). Inputs turnover is of the order of 500 to 600 million CFA Francs, but net results have recently
been negative and drained FNEC resources. External support to the FNEC has included technical
assistance, equipment and vehicles, and recurrent costs, excluding salaries, for the DAM.  The
Secretariat's 1993 budget was estimated at 155 million CFA Francs, of which 14.2 million CFA Francs
were used for investments.
Legal status of the FNEC
16.   The successive statutes of the FNEC have defined it as a national organization, a concept which
has no legal recognition. A legally more appropriate definition remains to be found, a fact which
demonstrates that the FNEC is a unique institution of its kind in the CAR. There is some ambiguity
concerning the nature of its membership: Art. 1 defines the FNEC as a national organization of herder
groups, while Art. 7 specifies that individual herders can be members of the FNEC (though they would
not be represented at its General Assembly if they are not members of a GIP). The recommendation for
the future would be to allow individuals to be members of the FNEC, but they would need to become
members of GIPs to participate in the FNEC's governing bodies. Thus Art. 1 and 6 should state that the
FNEC is a federation of herders.
17.   The FNEC has been under the tutelle (or trusteeship) of the Ministry of Rural Development since
its inception. The justification for this was that the FNEC had to implement programs funded by the
Government with external donor support. The tutelle is, however, too restrictive an instrument since it
takes away from the FNEC the final responsibility for all its decisions, whereas the role of the FNEC



- 57 -
Annex No. 3
Page 5 of 8
is to defend the interests of its members. A simple agreement between the FNEC and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MAE), specifying the modalities of the programs to be implemented and the
conditions of control to be exercised by the MAE, is sufficient for this purpose and leaves the
responsibility for the management of the institution to its General Assembly. The statutes designate the
Minister as the president of FNEC's General Assembly, even though the organization is defined as non-
political. The current Minister has already taken steps to modify this point.
Structures of the FNEC
18.   Currently, the membership of FNEC is defined as GIPs or any other legally constituted groups
having as their objective the promotion of livestock production. Groups can constitute federations
(comprising each at least two GIPs) at the level of a sous-prefecture, the FELGIPs, which send two
representatives each to the General Assembly of the FNEC. These representatives need not be the
presidents of the groups. In return, FNEC has no representational structures at the regional level. It is
intended that the Secretariat General appoint in each of the three regions a regional delegate, in structures
parallel to those of ANDE. The need to clarify the precise relationships between FNEC, GIP, FELGIP
and individual herders remains. The definition of who constitutes a herder is also open to discussion.
A herder should be viewed as any person producing animals and deriving the majority of his income from
that production, whether transhumant, sedentary, agro-pastoralist or poultry producer. Membership in
the FNEC should be incompatible with membership in other professional associations of the sector, such
as ACCB or ANBC. Honorary memberships or membres de droit should be eliminated. It has been
proposed that FNEC membership fees be differentiated in terms of the size of the member's herd, to
accommodate the poorer herders. In order to motivate and involve GIPs and FELGIPs in the collection
of FNEC membership fees, it has also been proposed that the receipts from these fees be divided between
the FNEC itself (60%), the GIPs (30%) and the FELGIPs (10%).
19.   The General Assembly is the highest authority of the FNEC. Its president should be elected by
the Assembly. The Administrative Council should be elected by the Assembly among its members. The
Council could invite persons with specific technical experience as observers to some of its meetings. The
statutes should also provide for external audits. Amendments to the statutes of the FNEC should thus
cover the representational aspects of the organization, the definition of membership, the recognition of
the constituting groups such as GIPs and FELGIPs, and the role and composition of the bodies of
authority within the FNEC. Adoption of the new statutes by an Extraordinary General Assembly of the
FNEC reflecting all the above considerations is to have taken place prior to proceeding with the proposed
project.
III. THE NATIONAL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (ANDE)
Background
20.   ANDE is a successor to the earlier Livestock Service. It was established by a decree of July
1989, following the 1988 reorganization of the Ministry of Rural Development. As such, it took over
all the responsibilities of the National Livestock Development Project funded by IDA, IFAD, the EDF
and the African Development Bank, thus bringing the animal health and extension programs to the whole
territory of the CAR, while ANEC, which later became the FNEC, was left with the input distribution
function.



- 58 -
Annex No. 3
Page 6 of 8
Present Structure
21.   Currently, ANDE comprises, under a General Directorate (which directly oversees monitoring
and statistics (SSES), marketing and promotion (SCPIA) and Civil Works and Equipment (SMGC)
services) three Directorates for (a) Animal Production (DPA), including the zootechnology and agro-
pastoralism services; (b) Animal Health and Applied Research (DSARA), including the prophylaxy,
epidemiology and diagnostics, entomology and malherbologie services; and (c) Administration and
Finance (DAF), with personnel and accounting services. A separate cellule (CFCV) is responsible for
training and the coordination of extension. The College technique de l'elevage in Bouar is also attached
to the CFCV. A management Committee, chaired by a representative of the MAE and including
representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the ACDA, the FNEC, the ANBC and the Chamber of
Agriculture, approves the annual budgets and programs, and has authority over the appointment and
remuneration of the personnel.
22.   Field staff is organized in three regional directorates (West, Center and East). Under each
regional director there is an animal health service and an animal production service. Contact with the
herders is established by the 149 Chefs de poste veterinaire (CPV), supervised and provided support by
some 30 Sector Chiefs. Almost all of this staff are civil servants.
Legal status
23.   The four major objectives of ANDE in the years ahead will be to (a) ensure a decentralization
of its activities and develop its conceptual capability to provide site-specific extension, through the
creation of "action studies" cells; (b) coordinate and collaborate with regional agricultural programs to
provide support in small livestock development and the introduction of animal traction; (c) provide public
sector services such as inspection, health control, prophylactic treatment, monitoring and statistics; and
(d) increase the level of competence at the regional level to reduce the need for referral to Headquarters.
All of these objectives can be adequately pursued within the existing structures of ANDE, especially now
that a third regional directorate has been created to cover the "Central" region. The headquarters of that
directorate, currently at Bangui, are to be moved to Bossambele under the project. The eventual transfer
of extension activities to the FNEC towards the end of the project would not either require any changes
to the statutes of the ANDE, though the status of the civil servants transferred at that time would be
modified. Transitional measures to help them shift out of the civil service would have to be devised for
these staff members.
IV. MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK
24.   The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE) (formerly Rural Development) was reorganized
in 1989 to reflect the objectives of (a) decentralization and regionalization of the economy and related
field activities; (b) a focus on production systems rather than individual commodities; (c) the active
promotion of grassroots involvement in their own development; and (d) the improvement of rural
infrastructure to promote accessibility and marketing. The MAE comprises two main departments, with
policy being formulated at the cabinet level. The Department for Planning, Studies and Monitoring
(DGPES), assisted by technical assistance from various sources, is in charge of the preparation of the
sector's public investment program, the implementation of policy studies and monitoring the
implementation of the policies and programs. The Department of Administrative and Agricultural



- 59 -
Annex No. 3
Page 7 of 8
Support (DGAAA) is responsible for financial and personnel matters and of the coordination between
various projects, programs and agencies under the supervision of the ministry. Field level coordination
with other entities is ensured by Regional Delegates under the DGAAA. Under the ongoing Agricultural
Services Project financed by IDA and other donors, a Financial Coordination Unit (UCF) has been
established within MAE for the purpose of processing and channeling donor funding. The UCF would
be in a position as well to provide the financial supervision of MAE on the funding of the livestock
project.
V. OTHER PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
The Livestock Herders Association (ACCB)
25.   The ACCB was created in August 1991, but the first meeting of its general assembly was held
in Bangui in February 1993. The ACCB brings together some 55 cattle traders, two-thirds of whom are
located in Bangui. Admission to membership is preceded by a time consuming enquete de moralite of
the trader by the Ministry of Public Security and the payment of a license tax equal, before the
devaluation, to 9,000 CFA Francs per buyer employed by the trader. Membership fees were of 15,000
CFA Francs in 1991 and 50,000 CFA Francs in 1992. Receipts were of the order of 6.4 million CFA
Francs in 1992 but dropped substantially in 1993. Half of the expenditures were in the form of loans to
members, interest due, gifts and contributions and "representation," and had difficulty being met in 1993.
The ACCB claims the right to manage the Bangui livestock market.
26.   Issues faced by the traders include the high risks attached to traveling with large sums of money,
the lack of protection of the profession, since many buyers operate without paying license or other taxes,
and the location of the Bangui market, which is increasingly surrounded by residential constructions. The
ACCB, which should be an independent organization to defend the interests of its members, remains
under the tutelle of the MAE. The concept of "Benefactor Member" and Membres de droit with voting
rights should also be eliminated from its statutes to avoid undesirable outside influences. Persons with
specific technical expertise could be invited to participate as observers in the General Assembly. The
latter should not be presided by a representative of the MAE, and the right to modify the statutes should
be entrusted to an Extraordinary Assembly.
27.   The ACCB is still in a very early phase of its development, and, unlike the FNEC in its initial
stage, it has not found a strong, unifying, single issue of direct interest to its members around which to
build a simple and effective institution. Instead, it finds itself with already significant overhead costs and
in search for members as a source of revenue. In addition, it has a heavy and confusing management
structure, which is not representative of its members. To become a truly representative and independent
professional association, the ACCB would have to increase substantially its membership, not through
administrative persuasion but around a common interest to livestock traders. It would also need to
modify its expenditure patterns and have annual audits undertaken. Its statutes would have to be
accordingly modified.
The National Butchers Association (ANBC)
28.   The ANBC was established in March 1988. It has some 160 members, out of some 780 butchers
in the country, paying an annual fee of 5,000 CFA Francs each. To compensate for low and declining



- 60 -
Annex No. 3
Page 8 of 8
income from membership fees, the ANBC has undertaken on its own commercial sales of meat, resulting
in a total income of about 33 million CFA Francs in the first nine months of 1993. ANBC thus has
ensured financial equilibrium, with expenses during the same period totalling 29 million CFA Francs,
4.2 million of which went to indemnities paid to its executive staff. The ANBC is thus in fact run as a
cooperative enterprise, with a limited membership which plays no role in its management. The ANBC
envisages to undertake a number of projects, including the establishment of shops and refrigeration
facilities on 10 markets, but has yet no funding for these activities. Its statutes are similar to those of
the ACCB, and thus call for similar comments concerning the tutelle of the MAE and special
memberships. Furthermore, article 13 of the statutes states that members should cede to the ANBC the
exclusive rights on wholesale deliveries of animal products to private and parastatal institutions for export,
thus depriving them from a potential source of income. Similar to the ACCB, the ANBC has not yet
found a convincing program on the basis of which to mobilize a significant membership, but it has
engaged in profitable commercial activities. The use of these resources do not appear to benefit its
members. It would have to increase its membership on the basis of a clear program and modify its
statutes if it is to become a truly representative and independent professional association.



- 61 -
Annex no. 4
Page 1 of 4
ANNEX 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND RANGELAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
THE INTERPROFESSIONAL LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT FUND
1.      The question of cost recovery and of financial sustainability in the livestock sector was first raised
during the appraisal of the Livestock Development Project in 1978 and the feasibility of introducing fees to
capture some of the increases in productivity in the sector was studied. At that time, only slaughter fees
and butchers' and traders' license fees were levied, yielding about FCFA 10 million or $45,500 per year.
2.       The subsequently established fees on the "on the hoof" part of the sector included by 1986 two
types of charges. The first is a quarantine fee (redevance sanitaire) against which a Laissez-passer sanitaire
is delivered on condition that the concerned cattle herd is vaccinated against Rinderpest and
Pleuropneumonia.  The document entitles herders to circulate in the country' or to direct their herds
towards recognized markets. The second is the national market fee to be paid when an animal is sold at one
of the recognized markets, organized by the Ministry of Rural Development and the FNEC. A communal
market tax is due on markets established by the Communes. An additional tax is to be paid for trade on the
Bangui market. Perception of the fees is the responsibility of the 80 Representatives of the FNEC, who are
appointed by the Secretary General and who receive a share (ristourne) of the amounts collected. The
communal taxes are collected under the responsibility of the Mayors of the Communes.
3.       During the appraisal and subsequent negotiations on the funding of the National Livestock
Development Project, in 1985, agreement was reached on the earmarking of the yield of these fees to a
Livestock Development Fund (FDE). From this, pilot tests of potentially valuable technologies and early
retirement and staff redundancy payments for personnel of the Livestock Service were to be financed. By
1989, these modalities were changed and the FNEC was authorized to retain 50% of the receipts it
collected, net of the costs of perception, to cover its recurrent costs and to transfer the remaining 50% in
the FDE. Disbursements from the FDE were to be for donor authorized programs of extension operations
and for recurrent costs of the ANDE with the exception of civil servant salaries.
4.       Accumulated receipts of the FDE  in the period 1987 to September 1993 amounted to
FCFA 471.5 million. The FDE has no legal status and consist of a number of deposit accounts under the
authority of the Director General of the ANDE.
5.       Organization. Under the project, the FDE would be formally established as an Interprofessional
Livestock Development Fund (FIDE or Fonds Interprofessionnel de Developpement de l'Elevage), which
would play the central role in financing development in the livestock sector. It would support activities
submitted to it by the different autonomous and independent institutions in the sector, who would retain the
full responsibility for the management and implementation for such activities. The FIDE would thus strictly
act as a funding agency and would not assume management responsibilities which would need to be
exercised at the level of the executing agencies (FNEC, ANDE, others). It would be established as an
independent and autonomous legal entity under private law, and would have full legal personality.
' Except in areas closed for livestock such as natural reserves, etc.



- 62 -
Annex no. 4
Page 2 of 4
6.       Its objective would be the promotion of the productivity in the livestock sector by funding the
provision in the field of public services (health and sanitary control, extension, training, study action,
rangeland management, etc), and in support of the promotion of participatory, professional associations and
their activities. Its resources would include the different fees collected in the sector which have been
restructured with an aim of simplifying the collection mechanisms (see the Annex on sector fees). It would
further receive funds from the Treasury required as counterpart funds for donor financed programs. It
would also receive in retrocession from the government, those donor funds which are intended for financing
of expenditures related to activities supported by them and not paid directly by the donors to suppliers of
goods and services. FIDE thus would constitute an institution where domestically generated resources are
matched by external funds to implement jointly agreed programs in the sector.
7.       Withdrawals from  FIDE would be for eligible expenditures by the executing agencies for
programs agreed with FIDE.  For this purpose, each agency would conclude annually a Financing
Agreement with FIDE, which would specify the program of work, the budget and the proposed financing.
8.       Management of FIDE would be assigned to an Interprofessional Coordination Committee (CIC),
which would include a representative each of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE), the ANDE
and the FNEC. A representative each of the ANBC and the ACCB would join the CIC as soon as these
two institutions are considered sufficiently representative of the trade they are in, their financial situation is
sufficiently transparent and confirmed by an external auditor's report and they are sufficiently free of
Government supervision.
9.       In order to preserve a separation between legislative and executive responsibilities, representatives
from the professional associations and ANDE would need to have legislative authority, as executives should
not be involved in the decisions on financing of programs for which they will carry direct and full
implementation responsibility. In practice, this means that the CIC would need to include the President of
the "Conseil d'Administration" of the FNEC2, the President of the Management Committee of the ANDE, a
representative of the MAE, and a representative of the Ministrv of Plan. Technical assistance would be
provided by a financial expert. The donors would be invited to attend each meeting. The chair would be
held by the representative of the MAE.
10.      The CIC would be responsible for the effective use of the resources put at its disposal. It would
meet on a quarterly basis, once a year to review and approve proposed annual programs and budgets, and
further to review progress in implementation as reported by the executing agencies.
11.      The CIC would be supported by a small staff including a Director, two accountants and a
secretary. It would be provided with the required office equipment, vehicles and operating funds. The
director, together with the technical assistant, who holds the co-signature, would be responsible for the cash
flow management of FIDE and for the administration and approval of disbursement requests from FIDE.
12.     Implementation. The responsibility for the implementation of the project would be placed with
the MAE. External financiers of the project would sign Loan and Credit Agreements or other Financing
Agreements with the Ministry appointed by government as the authorized representative. On the basis of
these financing agreements, the authorized representative Ministry, together with the MAE would sign
2 and of the ANBC and ACCB once the above indicated conditions are met.



- 63 -
Annex no. 4
Page 3 of 4
Subsidiary Agreements with the FIDE for each external source of finance under which external funds would
be passed on as a grant to the FIDE.
13.     Attached to these Subsidiary Agreements and being an integral part of them, would be the
detailed outline of the project and its implementation modalities, as appraised and negotiated.  The
Subsidiary Agreements need to be acceptable to the donors. The detailed project outline in the agreements
is the basis for the FIDE Management Committee to decide on proposals for annual programs and budgets
from the executing agencies.  The annual programs of each agency in fact represent its share in the
implementation of the project. Funding from FIDE to an executing agency thus will be conditional upon the
latter's proposed program and budget being fully consistent in terms of annual objectives, modalities of
implementation and resources required, with the agreed project. Presentation of the annual programs to the
Management Committee would be made by the executive officers of the implementing agencies.
14.      Upon approval of the funding for an agency's proposed annual program and budget by the FIDE
Management Committee, a Financing Agreement would be drawn up between the FIDE and the agency, in
which the annual program and budget would be specified and which would determine the modalities of
funding agreed with the FIDE. The agreement would also define the modalities of progress reporting and
of accounting and control to be applied by the agency, as well as the ex-post and periodic control to be
exercised by the FIDE Director and the technical assistant. Disbursement in tranches by the FIDE for local
expenditures will be conditioned by the agency's respecting the modalities in the agreement.  Annual
program implementation would be the responsibility of the Executive Officer in each agency, i.e. the
Secretary General of the FNEC and the Director General of the ANDE (and the Secretary Generals of
ANBC and ACCB once these agencies are eligible for FIDE financing).
15.     Reporting. accounts, audit. Physical and financial progress reporting by the executing agencies to
FIDE will be on a monthly basis according to a format agreed with FIDE and acceptable to the external
donors.  The FIDE Director will consolidate these reports into quarterly reports for discussion in the
Management Committee and for information to the external donors. The annual report and the accounts
will need the approval of the Committee.
16.     FIDE would keep separate accounts for each source of funding, domestic and external. The
executing agencies would keep separate accounts for all their FIDE-financed activities and any other
activities funded on other resources.
17.     The executing agencies would apply their own internal control procedures to the implementation
of the project and to the separate accounts. FIDE would carry out from time to time spot checks on
physical and financial aspects of implementation and the executing agencies will provide all required
information and evidence for this purpose, as will be specified in the Financing Agreements between them
and FIDE. The accounts of FIDE and of the executing agencies will be annually audited by external
auditors acceptable to the donors. Their report would need to be submitted to the Management Committee
of FIDE and to the donors not later than three months after the close of the fiscal year.
18.     Procurement and Disbursement. Procurement procedures differ between external donors; FIDE,
if required, would assist the executing agencies in the application of these different modalities. It would
also advise on the possibility of grouping procurement for similar items, such as transport and office
equipment, between agencies. Responsibility for procurement would however remain with the agencies.
19.     Disbursement on contracts concluded by the executing agencies under international or national
competitive bidding and to be financed by external donors would be made by the latter directly to the



- 64 -
Annex no. 4
Page 4 of 4
suppliers. Such contracts financed from FIDE's domestic resources would be paid for directly by FIDE to
the supplier. For the purpose of local purchases, FIDE would open a Special Account or Advance Account
for each external donor in which advances would be made according to modalities specified in the respective
Credit, Loan and Financing agreements. FIDE would make advances to the executing agencies according to
the same modalities for eligible expenditures foreseen in the approved annual budgets. The use of these
advance accounts would be subject to a specific opinion of the annual external audits.
20.      Withdrawals. Modalities for withdrawal of funds by the executing agencies from their accounts
at FIDE will be specified in the Financing Agreements between the agencies and FIDE. Withdrawal
requests related to this need to be signed by the Executive Officer of the agency.  Disbursement requests
from FIDE addressed to the external donors need to be signed by the Director of FIDE and co-signed by
the financial expert provided under technical assistance to FIDE and forwarded to the donors through the
Financial Coordination Unit (UCF) of the MAE.
21.      Modifications. The subsidiary agreements will include the detailed specification and modalities
for the implementation of the project. If during the course of implementation and supervision the need for
modification becomes apparent because of changing circumstances, the government and the external donors
will need to agree on an amendment of the subsidiary agreements. The modalities for this need to be
defined in the Subsidiary Agreements. For reasons of speed and efficiency, it need to be considered to
define the category of amendments which can be made by exchange of letters between the government and
the concerned donor. This is all the more important as the approach applied in the proposed project is in
need of a high degree of flexibility.
22.      Actions required prior to the establishment of FIDE. Prior to the establishment of FIDE, the
following actions would need to be undertaken:
(a)      a draft of the statutes of FIDE defining (i) its objectives; (ii) its management procedures; (iii) the
respective functions of its member institutions, of the State and of the donors; and (iv) the
financial allocations authorized under the purposes of the project;
(b)      audits of the financial situation and procedures of all eventual members of FIDE, i.e., the FNEC,
ANDE and, insofar as they wish to participate, of ACCB and ANBC, for the period from
January 1992 to the date of the audits; and
(c)      an analysis of the current procedures for the perception of the various fees supplying the FIDE
defining (i) procedures for the perception of sanitary and market fees to improve its reliability,
efficiency and rapidity of the availability of the funds; and (ii) the level of fees which can be
perceived without endangering the proper surveillance of the herds and of their health conditions.
23.      The various audits would have to be implemented according to the internationally admitted audit
procedures. The auditors would have to appraise the efficiency and appropriate implementation of internal
control procedures, identify eventual weaknesses and recommend means to improve them. They would also
have to appraise transparency and regularity of the financial statements and verify that all accounts have
been kept in accordance with the procedures of the African Chart of Accounts. These audits would have to
be entrusted to firms capable of bringing together two certified accountants specialized in financial audits (1
month each) and a livestock production specialist with at least ten years of experience in Western or Central
Africa (2 weeks), supported by a legal specialist to assist in the drafting of the statutes of FIDE (1 week).
The call for bids should be limited to three or four firms, one of which at least should be from the CAR.



- 65 -
Annex No. 5
Page 1 of 4
ANNEXE 5
REPUBLIOUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE ET DE GESTION DES PARCOURS
ASPECTS REGLEMENTAIRES ET FONCIERS DE L'ETABLISSEMENT DES ZAGROP
1.     Les quelques zones d'amenagement agro-pastoral (ZAGROP), etablies I titre pilote ces dernibres
annees visent a repondre a des besoins (a) de cohabitation paisible et d'amplification des rapports
commerciaux entre eleveurs et agriculteurs dans le cadre d'un territoire rural retenu, dont les ressources
naturelles feraient l'objet (i) d'un zonage et d'affectations clairement definies; (ii) d'une discipline de
gestion de l'espace selon un cahier de charges etabli prealablement; et (iii) d'actions concertees de
developpement; (b) de fourniture de services sociaux et d'appui a la production aux eleveurs
transhumants, pour lesquels la ZAGROP constituerait une base arri4re, ainsi qu'aux agriculteurs et agro-
eleveurs sedentaires; et (c) de debut de s6dentarisation des populations transhumantes et introduction de
methodes de gestion perenne pour maltriser, a terme, la d6gradation des ressources naturelles. Une
ordonnance du 15 septembre 1986 definit la nature des ZAGROP.' II est reproche au texte de cette
ordonnance de ne faire r6f6rence qu'aux droits des eleveurs et d'aboutir ainsi a leur segregation plutot
qu'a leur integration au sein de la communaute sedentaire. II en a resulte des difficultes politiques dans
l'etablissement de nouvelles ZAGROP au dela des deux premieres (une troisibme fonctionne de facon
officieuse), bien que des dossiers techniques soient prets pour l'etablissement de cinq autres. L'experience
a d6montre que l'institution des ZAGROP repond bien a leur objet premier. II y aurait lieu toutefois de
modifier les textes juridiques de base de maniere a y reconnaitre la participation de l'ensemble des
groupes socio-professionnels dans la zone. Les aspects de securisation foncibre devraient aussi etre
renforces par une procedure simple d'enregistrement des divers droits pour garantir d'eventuels emprunts,
encourager les investissements et la p6rennitd des activites et permettre la transmissions des divers droits
aux heritiers des residents de diverses origines socio-professionnelles des ZAGROP.
2.      L'examen critique des facteurs d'ordre juridique se rapportant aux ZAGROP, instituees par
l'ordonnance n 86-057 du 15 septembre 1986 s'est oriente vers trois themes associes et complementaires,
a savoir: (a) les procedures d'institution des ZAGROP ; (b) les procedures internes de la ZAGROP; et
(c) le probleme foncier, notamment au sein de la ZAGROP. I1 donne lieu aux considdrations qui suivent.
Procedures de creation des ZAGROP
3.     Les procedures de creation des ZAGROP se composent: (a) de phases locales, informelles bien
que cadrees par l'objectif de l'adhesion a un statut type defini par decret du 15 decembre 1984 et a un
reglement interieur type; et (b) de phases a l'echelon central, au sujet desquelles l'ordonnance pr6cit6e
decide qu'elles soient conclues par un decret signe du President de la Republique. Les phases locales sont
organisees de manibre a obtenir un consensus des differentes parties prenantes k la ZAGROP: elles sont
' L'ordonnance de 1986 6tablit les regles budgetaires des ZAGROP, y compris i8 droit A dos subventions de l'Etat, les
conditions d'admission des membres, les droits et obligations de ceux-ci et les proc6dures de fonctionnement. Les cahiers des
charges fixent les regles de transhumance, de mise en dafens, de charge maximale, d'administration g6nerale at de participation
des 6levours. Les statuts des ZAGROP, pour leur part, definissent lee condition de jouissance exclusive sur des pAturages
ddlimites et l'utilisation en commun de ces paturages ainsi que las actions sanitaires, commerciales, economiques at sociales
qui y seraient entreprises. Le r6glement-type fixe le droit de r6sidence reconnu a chaque membre et le droit de paturage pour
1'ensemble des troupeaux des membres.



- 66 -
Annex No. 5
Page 2 of 4
eminemment adaptables au contexte social et economique propre a chaque zone. Les phases a l'echelon
central imposent, selon les regles propres a l'elaboration d'un decret: une concertation interministerielle,
un examen detailI6 en commission nationale des textes officiels, une deliberation du conseil des ministres,
la signature presidentielle. Cette procedure est longue et lourde au regard des finalites de la ZAGROP.
4.     Une eventuelle simplification de la procedure d'institution d'une ZAGROP pourrait resider, sans
m6connattre la nature et l'importance des int6rets en presence, dans le recours a un arrete ministeriel,
lequel n'oblige qu'a une concertation interministerielle et le cas echeant a un arbitrage de l'Inspection
generale d'Etat. Reste a examiner l'hypothMse d'une deconcentration de la decision d'institution d'une
ZAGROP au niveau pr6fectoral. Le contexte gouvernemental actuel, favorable a la deconcentration et I
la decentralisation permet d'evoquer cette modalite, sous reserve d'une etude approfondie. Mais ceci
supposerait nombre de conditions prealables qui semblent ne pas exister dans le pays actuellement. En
definitive, le choix penche pour un arrete ministeriel pour des raisons d'efficacite, ce sous reserve d'une
reelle representativite de la commission ad hoc a creer a cet effet.
Procedures internes de la ZAGROP
5.     L=e contexte socio-politiiue. Les ZAGROP constituent une institution specifique d'organisation
spatiale, economique et sociale fondee sur une representation socio-professionnelle specialisee: celle des
dIeveurs. L'ordonnance de 1986 d'une part, les statuts-type d'autre part revelent une ambivalence ; la
premiere privilegie le concept de zone d'amenagement ; les seconds privilegient celui d'une structure
socio-professionnelle. La ZAGROP est compatible avec la commune d'elevage, notion creee par la loi
du 30 avril 1962, collectivite territoriale au sens de l'ordonnance du 12 fWvrier 1988 ; elle l'est aussi avec
la commune de droit commun regie par la dite ordonnance. D'oli en ce domaine encore une certaine
ambiguite et une source reelle de dualite de pouvoirs.
6.     Le contexte socio-professionnel. En l'etat, F'article 2 de l'ordonnance de 1986 ecarte le concours
de categories socio-professionnelles autres que celles d'eleveurs. De cette omission, fruit d'une volonte
de l'epoque, decoule une situation irrealiste, isolant les categories socio-professionnelles presentes sur le
terrain et privilegiant l'une d'elles en demotivant les autres ; en outre cette situation accentue la dualite
entre les communes d'elevage, lieu preferentiel des ZAGROP et les communes de droit commun.
7.     Le contexte reel de terrain, d'ailleurs evolutif, conduit a retenir l'idee que l'institution et la
gestion d'une ZAGROP doit reposer sur le concours et la participation de toutes les parties prenantes,
s'exprimant sous forme non seulement de groupements d'interat pastoral (GIP) mais aussi de groupements
d'interet agro-pastoral (GIAP) outre, s'il y a lieu, d'autres (chasseurs, commersants, associations
feminines par exemple). Ceci suggere en definitive une reecriture des textes regissant les ZAGROP
(ordonnance, statuts et reglement type) ainsi que l'elaboration d'un statut-type des GIAP, ce apres examen
des statuts actuels des GIP.
8.     Sous reserve d'un examen approfondi, il y a lieu d'envisager, pour une nouvelle definition des
ZAGROP, I'approche spatiale, la ZAGROP s'entendant comme un ensemble territorial oi s'exercent, de
maniere complementaire, des activites socio-professionnelles, et ou des regles regissant cet exercice ont
pour objet d'eviter les situations conflictuelles d'occupation de l'espace.
Le foncier
9.     Aspects physigues. Une approche d'ensemble pour la RCA, hormis les zones urbaines, ne revele
pas de probleme foncier pour les terres agricoles et pastorales, si l'on se refere a la densite de population,



- 67 -
Annex No. 5
Page 3 of 4
de l'ordre de 2 habitants au km2. II existe cependant des zones conflictuelles, d6celEes notamment dans
les ZAGROP, en raison de la fixation concomitante d'agriculteurs et d'eleveurs sur des sites imbriques
et convoites. La comp6tition sur l'espace, bien que se traduisant en gen6ral en termes economiques par
le fait d'entraves a la production et de destructions de recoltes, appelle en realite la reconnaissance de
droits sur cet espace, garantissant la securite, la perennite, la qualite de l'investissement et, specialement
pour les eleveurs, la pratique perenne d'une activite cyclique.
10.    Aspects legaux. La loi du 9 janvier 1964 exprime la souverainete de l'Etat sur les terres de la
RCA, mais reconnait (a) la propriete fonciere privee, sous condition de titres d6livres par l'Etat; (b) la
possession, constatee a la date de la loi et exercee paisiblement ; et (c) les droits traditionnels fonciers
collectifs. Sans qu'il soit besoin d'instituer un droit foncier radicalement nouveau, il suffirait, pour
garantir l'exercice des activites agricoles et pastorales, de reconnaltre la possession ou la mise en valeur
et de lui conferer les attributs d'inviolabilite et de transferabilit.
11.    Aspects techniques. La nature et l'etendue du probleme en cause ne paraissent pas justifier
l'institution d'un cadastre ni justifier la mobilisation des moyens correspondants. Une demarche
experimentale pourrait etre menee dans les deux ZAGROP actuellement instituees, selon les modalites
suivantes, a l'objet d'identifier et de publier les droits de possession fonciere:
(a)    1'etude de l'organisation spatiale de la ZAGROP en vue d'une affectation optimale des terres aux
diverses activites economiques ; zonage fin correspondant;
(b)    I'identification, sur photographie aerienne, des actes de possession exerces et procedure d'auto-
arbitrage, par la population concernee, a l'objet de ces actes
(c)    reconnaissance publique des droits qui en resultent ; et
(d)    s'il y a lieu, sur la base de l'etude mentionn6e en (a), echanges des droits reconnus en application
de (c) pour une reaffectation de ces droits dans les sites retenus au titre de l'amenagement de la
ZAGROP.
12.    Aspects reglementaires. Les experiences ci-dessus auraient a servir de base a ceux des dispositifs
compl6mentaires qui s'avereraient necessaires: caractere reglementaire du zonage, de reconnaissance des
droits et d'usurpation des droits, modalites de suivi de la situation fonciere. Elles pourraient egalement
servir de champ de reflexion a un groupe d'6tudes foncieres charge d'e1aborer, au plan national, un futur
code foncier et dont l'institution pourrait accompagner les experiences sus-mentionnees.
Coherence avec le projet de d6veloppement de l'61evage et de 2estion des parcours
13.    II serait n6cessaire d'elaborer, pour les points de principe ci-dessus etudies ainsi que pour ce qui
concerne les droits de possession, les avant-projets de textes legislatifs ou reglementaires correspondants.
II conviendrait que le Gouvernement de la RCA envisage, la mise en place d'une commission ad hoc pour
leur examen, ce de telle maniere que: (a) les principes en soient actes, amendes ou modifies ; (b) pour
le ou les textes legislatifs, le bureau de l'Assemblee en soit saisi ; et (c) pour le ou les textes
reglementaires, I'autorite competente en soit saisie dans les memes delais.
14.    Pour eviter tout retard dans l'execution du projet, la creation officielle de 21 ZAGROP Qes cinq
prevues dans le cadre du PNDE et les 16 complementaires), serait precedee par la mise en place
provisoire dans les zones concernees d'Associations contractuelles entre les eleveurs et agriculteurs



- 68 -
Anex No. 5
Page 4 of 4
cohabitant dans 1'espace affecte aux futures ZAGROP (AEA). Les statuts et objectifs des AEA, tout
comme ceux des ZAGROP, reposeraient sur des accords definis par les interesses a la base, confirmes
et reconnus d'utilite publique par un arrete du MAE permettant l'affectation de fonds du projet pour leur
etablissement et la fourniture des services et equipements necessaires. L'experience acquise dans le cadre
des AEA alimenterait la reflexion sur les modifications a apporter, ulterieurement, I la loi concernant les
ZAGROP. Les nouveaux raglements devraient permettre de reduire a moins de douze mois I partir de
la formulation de l'intention des interesses les delais de mise en fonctionnement des AEA. Is devraient
aussi repondre a la difficulte de gestion collegiale de 1'espace pastoral observee dans les ZAGROP
existantes en permettant une forme d'appropriation individuelle favorisant des investissements durables.
Les methodes mises au point dans le cadre du projet precedent pour l'identification et la deIimitation des
zones seraient reconduites. Compte tenu de la concurrence observee sur les ressources naturelles (salines,
points d'eau, gestion des feux) entre l'e1evage et la chasse, les groupements de chasseurs seraient
formellement integres dans la gestion des ZAGROP.



- 69 -
Anex no, 6
page 1 of 15
ANNEXE 6
REPUBLIOUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE ET DE GESTION DES PARCOURS
SYSTEME FINANCIER MUTUALISTE SPECIFIOUE AUX ELEVEURS
I. Specificites socio-economigues de l'elevage bovin
1.    L'elevage bovin presente des specificites marquees. Sur le plan ethnique et religieux, il est
pratique essentiellement par des ethnies Peul dont 1'effectif du troupeau est 6value I entre 2 millions et
2.400.000 tetes, selon que l'on inclut ou non les transhumants saisonniers du Nord Est, et dont 95%
appartiennent a des Bororos et le reste a des Foulbes. Ces eleveurs sont restes tres attaches a leur identite
et a leur appartenance au clan ethnique, a la lignee et a l'Islam qui a un impact tres important sur leur
mode de vie et leurs traditions. Sur le plan g6ographique, le troupeau familial moyen est evalue a 125
A 130 t8tes. Cela necessite beaucoup d'espace, et interdit la concentration des troupeaux et des familles
d'eleveurs. Cette situation induit un habitat disperse: les familles vivent dans des "campements", qui
regroupent trois a quatre familles. Si on evalue a 400 tWtes l'effectif global des troupeaux d'un
campement, il faut a ces animaux plus de 8 km2 de parcours, ce qui implique une distance moyenne
minimale de 3 km entre chaque campement. Cette situation constitue un obstacle important a la creation
et a l'entretien des infrastructures collectives. Cela represente aussi un frein aux actions collectives de
type cooperatif ou mutualiste. Cependant les organisations competentes ont reussi a constituer un reseau
relativement important de groupements d'interet pastoral (GIP). Sur le plan socio-economique, une etude
rdalis6e en 1990 pour l'ANDE a permis d'approfondir la connaissance des milieux d'eleveurs, notamment
sur la composition des familles et leurs activites, sur leurs budget recettes-depenses, sur l'exploitation des
troupeaux et les migrations saisonnieres. Les eleveurs ont ete segmentes en trois categories selon
l'importance de leur troupeau: (a) petits eleveurs (moins de 100 tetes, 53 % du total) ; (b) eleveurs
moyens (de 100 a 200 tetes, 31 %); et (c) grands eleveurs (plus de 200 tates de betail, 16%). En outre,
on constate que sur 1'ensemble, 28% des familles vendent du lait, et qu'un nombre croissant d'eleveurs
bororo en sont venus a pratiquer un peu d'agriculture, principalement du manioc pour diminuer leurs
depenses de nourriture, et tenter de reduire l'exploitation du troupeau.
Composition et niveau de vie de la famille
2.    L'etude montre que 1'effectif moyen d'une famille d'eleveur est de 10,8 personnes, avec une
dispersion importante d'apres la categorie, liee a l'importance de la polygamie et au nombre de personnes
I charge exterieures a la famille. On constate une assez grande variation de la composition de la famille
selon l'importance du troupeau et la fortune de l'eleveur. Si on etudie quelques criteres de niveau de vie,
on constate que pres des trois quarts des eleveurs possedent une maison en paille, pres d'un quart, une
maison en terre battue, 7% une maison en dur avec t6les, moustiquaires et couvertures (95 %), montre
(62 %), poste de radio (35 %), velo (8 %), meubles (fauteuils, table: 6 %).
Budget familial
3.    L'enquete de I'ANDE a permis d'etudier le budget des familles de l'chantillon enquete, pour
I'annee 1989. Les recettes sont constituees a 92% par des ventes de bMtail, et s'etablissent a 726.000
FCFA par an en moyenne, avec une dispersion assez importante selon la categorie, de 550.000 FCFA



- 70 -
Annex no. 6
page 2 of 15
a 1.240.000 FCFA.' La vente du lait represente seulement 3% des recettes, mais pour les 28% de
familles qui la pratiquent, cela represente un appoint appreciable. Les principaux postes de depense sont
l'alimentation (46%), les depenses d'elevage pour le troupeau (18%), et l'habillement qui represente 15%.
Les depenses diverses expliquees (8%) sont des dons, des frais de ceremonies, des imp6ts ou amendes,
des objet de luxe. Les depenses non expliquees (8%) sont probablement des oublis, des depenses
personnelles ou non recensees qui ont vraisemblablement une importance secondaire pour l'eleveur. Si
on analyse les depenses d'alimentation par personne dans les differentes categories, on voit que le manioc
est la base de I'alimentation. Malgre une relative s6dentarisation des eleveurs bororos, ces derniers
pratiquent la plupart du temps la transhumance saisonniere pendant la saison seche, laissant souvent au
village ou au campement ceux qui ne peuvent pas marcher loin. Ces deplacements saisonniers a la
recherche de paturages plus riches n'excedent en general pas 50 a 100 km, mais peuvent cependant
parfois depasser ces distances du lieu de depart, et durent en general cinq mois et demi. Au cours de
cette periode, la situation de la famille restee au campement devient souvent precaire et peut necessiter
des recours I des credits de consommation.
Exploitation des troupeaux
4.     La productivite moyenne d'un troupeau de zebus est estim6e a 12 a 13 % et doit permettre, dans
des conditions normales d'exploitation et de marche, une croissance reguliere du troupeau, tout en
assurant a la famille un niveau de vie conforme a ses traditions. Si la maltrise de la pathologie s'est
nettement amrlioree, les conditions de marche se sont fortement degradees ces dernieres annees, du fait
d'une baisse des cours du betail et de la pression fiscale souvent injustifiable. Pour faire face a cette
situation et conserver un niveau de vie acceptable, les eleveurs ont dQ souvent intensifier l'exploitation
de leur troupeau pour aboutir a une vWritable decapitalisation. Ce phenomene est variable suivant les
regions et les categories d'eleveurs, et presente pour certains des dimensions inquietantes. On peut
constater que dans toutes les regions, les troupeaux de moins de 100 tetes sont dans une situation
alarmante et sont en voie de decapitalisation rapide. On peut supposer que ce phenomene n'a pu que
s'aggraver et les eleveurs ont d1 diversifier leurs activites, notamment par la pratique de l'agriculture de
subsistance, puisque I'alimentation est le poste le plus important de leur budget (45 %). Par contre, les
eleveurs de la categorie la plus riche continuent a beneficier d'une croissance de leurs troupeaux, malgre
une augmentation de leur taux d'exploitation de 1 % en moyenne entre 1985 et 1990.
Besoins de services financiers
5.     Epargne. Les besoins en matiere d'epargne s'expriment peu dans les entretiens avec les eleveurs,
car 1'epargne est rare et tres discrete. Une enquete menee par Volunteers in Technical Assistance (VITA)
aupres de ses clients en milieu urbain montre que 76 % d'entre eux souhaitent pouvoir constituer de
l'epargne dans des conditions de securite convenable. L'epargne deposee aupres d'une caisse mutuelle
peut resulter soit d'un processus d'accumulation en vue d'un investissement ou en vue de se constituer
un "droit au crddit", soit des mouvements de la tresorerie courante d6pos6e pour la s6curite. Pour
l'dpargne resultant d'une accumulation, on peut prendre pour base les depenses "diverses non expliqu6es"
et consid6rer que la moitie peut etre epargnee, soit environ 25.000 FCFA par an et par soci6taire de
caisse mutuelle. En ce qui concerne la tresorerie courante de l'eleveur, on peut l'estimer a 20.000 FCFA
en moyenne sur l'annee, soit a peine 3 % de son chiffre d'affaire, ce qui est peu, avec une progression
de 5 % par an.
Toutes les valeurs en FCFA dans cette annexe sont d'avant la devaluation de janvier 1994.



-71 -
Annex no. 6
page 3 of 15
6.     Credit. Les besoins en matiere de credit s'expriment beaucoup plus facilement et portent sur trois
types de prets: (a) les prets sociaux ou de tresorerie (achat de produits veterinaires) ; (b) les prets
d'investissements individuels ; et (c) les prets pour des infrastructures collectives. Les besoins prioritaires
sont des bovins reproducteurs, une ecole, un dispensaire, et le renforcement des GIP. Cette expression
des besoins parait tres significative. Les prets sociaux seront destin6s aux besoins familiaux courants:
consommation, en particulier dans la p6riode de transhumance oti une partie de la famille reste au
campement avec peu de ressources, sante, fournitures scolaires, petit 6quipement menager. Cette
demande peut etre evaluee a 20.000 FCFA par famille, pour 50 % des societaires, et pour une duree
de trois mois. D'autres besoins pour des prets a court terme existent chez environ 50 % des eleveurs
pour financer la pharmacie veterinaire et le d6veloppement de leur activit6 agricole: leur montant moyen
peut etre evalue a 20.000 FCFA sur une duree de six mois.
7.     Les besoins de credit pour investissement individuel concernent principalement des achats de
reproducteurs pour ameliorer et augmenter le troupeau, mais aussi pour l'amelioration de l'habitat, et
dans certains cas pour I'acquisition d'un moyen de transport simple ou de clotures pour des cultures
fourrageres. Ces besoins sont d'un montant moyen de 200.000 a 250.000 FCFA, remboursables sur des
durees de trois a six ans maximum, selon l'objet, le montant et la capacite de remboursement de
1'emprunteur. Pour les credits de reconstitution de cheptel, les entretiens avec les eleveurs montrent que
pour redresser d'une facon significative un troupeau de moins de 50 tetes, soit environ 20 meres, il faut
envisager un achat de quatre genisses de 3 ans et deux males de 3 ans, soit un coOt voisin de 240.000
FCFA. Cela necessiterait un credit sur cinq a six ans avec un differe d'amortissement de deux a trois ans,
afin que les echeances du pret soient payees par les produits des reproducteurs achetes. Cela induit une
charge d'interet elevee, qui sera difficile a supporter pour les plus pauvres, d'autant plus que les taux
d'interets seraient au moins egaux au taux potentiel d'exploitation du troupeau. On peut evaluer a 10 %
^ 20 % du nombre de societaires d'une caisse, les demandes de prets dans cette categorie.
8.     Les demandes de prets pour des infrastructures ou investissements collectifs seront beaucoup
moins nombreuses, et ne depasseront pas une a deux par caisse et par an. On peut evaluer egalement leur
montant moyen a 100.000 FCFA a rembourser sur une duree de deux a trois ans.
II. LES ORGANISATIONS MUTUALISTES DE L'ELEVAGE
9.    Il existe actuellement trois niveaux d'organisations mutualistes dans le secteur de I'elevage en
RCA: les GIP ou groupements d'interet pastoral, les FELGIP ou federations locales de GIP, et la FNEC,
qui est la Federation nationale des eleveurs de la RCA. Parallelement, I'Agence nationale de
developpement de l'elevage (ANDE) est un etablissement public dote de l'autonomie financiere et place
sous la tutelle du Ministere de l'agriculture et de l'elevage (MAE).
III. LE SYSTEME BANCAIRE CENTRAFRICAIN
10.   La Bangue des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale. Le systeme bancaire centrafricain est constitue par
la Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) et de trois banques commerciales, auxquelles il faut
ajouter quatre banques en liquidation. La BEAC est un etablissement public multinational constitue entre
les six Etats de l'Afrique Centrale. Elle participe a la mise en application des mesures de politique
monetaire. A la suite des difficultes rencontrees par la plupart des etablissements de credit de la zone,
de vastes operations de restructuration ont ete entreprises dans le but d'assainir la situation. Pour ce qui



- 72 -
Annex no. 6
page 4 of 15
est de la RCA, le montant des creances consolidees s'eleve a 10,350 milliards de FCFA, qui seront
remboursees par le biais de la Caisse autonome d'amortissement.
11.      Les bangues commerciales. Le reseau bancaire comprend actuellement trois etablissements en
activite: (a) l'Union Bancaire en Afrique Centrale (UBAC); (b) la Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique
Occidentale (BIAO) ; et (c) la Banque Populaire Maroco-Centrafricaine (BPMC). Au 30 juin 1992, la
situation consolid6e, exprimee par le total du bilan, s'etablit a 48,2 milliards de FCFA, contre 51,1
milliards un an auparavant. A l'actif, cette diminution est la consequence de la baisse des cr6dits a
l'economie, liee a la fermeture ou a la restructuration de certaines entreprises publiques. Dans la mame
periode, les depots des banques aupres de la BEAC sont passes de 157 a 1.988 millions de FCFA, du
fait du manque d'emplois pour ces fonds. Au passif, les emprunts exterieurs et les recours aux credits
de la BEAC ont fortement diminue. L'UBAC possede un effectif total de 144 agents et une part de
marche bancaire de 59,4 % en matiere de collecte des ressources et de 61,2 % des credits bancaires
distribu6s. Elle possede deux agences, dont une au siege de la banque et une a Bouar. La BIAO est la
deuxieme banque du pays, avec un effectif de 90 agents. Elle possede egalement deux agences, dont l'une
au siege a Bangui et une a Berberati, dans la zone diamantifere. La BPMC est de creation recente et n'a
encore qu'une faible part de marche. Filiale de la Banque Populaire Marocaine, elle a un effectif de 36
agents, et une seule agence au siege, dans le centre de Bangui. Les deux premieres se partagent le
financement du coton, avec respectivement 55 % et 45 %, alors que le financement du tabac est reparti
entre les trois banques a hauteur de 35, 35 et 30 % du financement de campagne.
12.   Avec cinq agences bancaires, la RCA dispose donc d'un guichet bancaire pour 537.000 habitants,
contre 112.000 habitants pour un guichet dans la zone BEAC (moyenne mondiale 1 pour 10.000). Elle
est donc tres sous equipee dans ce domaine. Deux autres etablissements sont pratiquement en etat de
cessation de paiement: ce sont la Caisse Nationale d'Epargne (CNE) et les Comptes Cheques Postaux.
Ils ont connu une bonne periode dans les annees 70 et ils avaient de nombreux clients en zone rurale
grAce a l'activite des bureaux de postes repartis sur le territoire. A la CNE, le nombre de livrets etait de
72.000 a fin 1985, pour un montant de 536 millions. Les CCP avaient des dep6ts de 321 millions en
1984, mais depuis, il est difficile d'avoir des chiffres. Les CCP servent encore de temps en temps pour
le reglement des salaires de certains fonctionnaires.
13.      Les banques en liquidation. La RCA a connu la liquidation de plusieurs banques, d'oti un
certain sentiment de mefiance des centrafricains: (a) la Banque Nationale Centrafricaine de Depots
(BNCD), banque commerciale a capitaux publics, cre6e en 1971 et fermee par ordonnance en 1983 ; (b)
la Banque Nationale de Developpement (BND), qui a succede en 1961 a la Societe Centrafricaine de
Credit, mise en liquidation en mai 1976 ; (c) la Banque Centrafricaine d'Investissement (BCI), qui a
succede en 1977 a la BND et qui a e dissoute par ordonnance en 1983 ; et (d) la Banque de Credit
Agricole et de Developpement (BCAD) creee en 1984 sous forme de societe d'economie mixte au capital
de 600 millions, dont 33 % a l'Etat (I'immeuble), 51 % a la BPP et 8 % a la CNCA de France, qui etait
l'operateur technique. La BCAD avait pour mission d'assurer a la fois les fonctions de banque
commerciale et celles de banque de developpement, et realisait pratiquement toutes les operations
bancaires, y compris avec l'etranger ainsi que les credits documentaires. Elle a et fermee en janvier 1990
par decision du Conseil National du Credit avec un passif de plus de 5 milliards de FCFA et mise en
liquidation. Les raisons de cette defaillance sont nombreuses, mais on peut citer principalement: des
capitaux insuffisants, des objectifs mal definis, un systeme d'information insuffisant et un desordre
comptable, des dossiers de credit peu instruits et du laxisme dans le suivi, enfin une mauvaise
appreciation des risques. En effet, en 1989 la BCAD a finance seule la campagne cafe, 1'UBAC et la
BIAO ayant refuse de participer au financement en raison de l'effondrement des cours du cafe. Par



- 73-
Annex no. 6
page 5 of 15
ailleurs la BCAD a manque a sa mission de developpement de la production agricole, puisque seulement
2 % de ses encours de credit lui etaient consacres.
14.      L'etat du credit rural en RCA. Les producteurs agricoles et les habitants des zones rurales, dans
leur immense majorite, n'ont aucun acces au credit bancaire. Il en va de meme pour la plupart des
commercants qui ont peu de moyens pour commercialiser et evacuer les produits du secteur. La situation
actuelle est caracterisee par l'absence de structure bancaire specifique et adequate. Parmi les banques en
liquidation, deux d'entre elles au moins avaient vocation a financer le milieu rural ainsi que I'agriculture
et l'elevage. Independamment des problemes de gestion ou de recouvrement qui ont entraine leur faillite,
on peut se demander pourquoi elles ont eu si peu d'impact sur le milieu rural qui etait leur cible
prioritaire. L'instauration de relations de confiance reciproque entre une banque et ses clients necessite
la connaissance directe et implique la proximite geographique, sociale et linguistique. Dans un pays aussi
vaste et peu peuple que la RCA, il est difficile pour une entreprise bancaire d'obtenir la rentabilite d'une
agence, qui ne peut pas atre assuree a moins de 1.500 ou 2.000 clients, et ceci a condition que le chiffre
d'affaire moyen des clients, tant en epargne qu'en credit, soit suffisant. Or les ruraux sont peu monetises,
et la majeure partie de leur revenu est en nature et destinee a leur propre consommation: les sommes
qu'ils peuvent d6poser ou emprunter sont relativement de tres faible montant et ne presentent aucune
rentabilite pour une banque. De plus les agents d'une banque classique, avec leur formation et leur niveau
de vie, sur la base de la convention collective des banques, appartiennent a un autre monde, et cette
disparit6 sociale est une barriere. Enfin, les paysans ou eleveurs ne peuvent pr6senter aucune garantie
acceptable par un etablissement financier. Tous ces elements conjugues creent entre la banque et ses
partenaires ruraux des problemes de communication infranchissables. Un seminaire sur le credit rural,
organis6 par la FAO en fWvrier 1993, a etudie ces questions et a conclu que la banque telle qu'elle a ete
importee de l'occident n'etait pas adapt6e au financement des milieux ruraux centrafricains, et 6tait inapte
a r6soudre leurs problemes d'epargne et de credit. Le probleme reste entier et le cr6dit rural, apres toutes
sortes d'experiences en RCA, n'est toujours pas a la disposition des ruraux.
IV. Les op6rateurs potentiels
15.    Un systeme financier rural capable de repondre aux besoins des ruraux et des eleveurs en
particulier, doit realiser la proximite geographique et sociale et atre a l'ecoute de leurs besoins. Dans la
p6riode difficile que traverse la RCA, il parait peu concevable de chercher a faire venir un organisme
specialise en matiere de credit rural qui ne soit pas deja present dans le pays. Les operateurs potentiels
installes en RCA sont (a) VITA, ONG americaine, implantee a Bangui depuis 1988, et qui est specialis6e
dans la distribution du credit aux petites entreprises du secteur informel ; et (b) le Centre international
de credit mutuel (CICM).
VITA
16.    L'action de VITA est bas6e a la fois sur des procedures et une organisation empruntees au secteur
bancaire et sur le systeme Grameen Bank. En effet, un entrepreneur qui demande un credit doit constituer
un groupe de trois a cinq personnes prises en dehors de sa famille, ayant une activite similaire et
desireuses d'obtenir elles aussi un credit. Apres une ample information, ces personnes vont garantir le
pret et n'obtiendront leur credit, a tour de role, qu'apres les premiers remboursements. Au niveau de
l'ONG, des agents de credit sont charges de suivre un portefeuille de clientele. Chaque agent de credit
suit ses clients du premier rendez-vous jusqu'au complet remboursement du pret. L'agent va aider son
client a constituer son dossier de pret, proceder a son instruction et le presenter a un comite interne de
credit. Si le pret est accorde, 1'emprunteur va recevoir une formation comportant en particulier la tenue



- 74 -
Annex no. 6
page 6 of 15
d'une comptabilite recettes-d6penses, qui fait partie des conditions de mise en place du credit. La
realisation sera suivie de visites regulieres de l'agent sur les lieux de 1'activite de l'emprunteur, pour
verifier les stocks, l'emploi des fonds et la tenue de la comptabilite et mesurer les resultats et l'impact
du cr6dit. Cet ensemble de prestations contribue fortement a la securite des cr6dits et au succes de
l'operation et justifie les taux pratiques, qui vont de 2 a 4 % par mois, en moyenne 3,3 % par mois.
VITA exerce donc une action en profondeur qui tend a faire passer ses clients de l'informel vers le
secteur formel. Le projet "Micro-Entreprises" execute par VITA sur financement de la Banque mondiale
a debute en 1990 a Bangui et a cr6e une antenne a Bambari en octobre 1992. En trois ans d'activite,
VITA a distribue 1.426 prets (au 31 mars 1993), d'une duree moyenne de 3,7 mois, pour un montant
total de 166,3 millions de FCFA, soit un montant moyen de 138.000 FCFA. Le taux de recouvrement
est de 94 % et, sur les montants distribues, 67 % des prets sont d'un montant inferieur a 100.000 FCFA,
80 % vont au commerce et aux activites de service, 73 % a des femmes. Ces resultats mettent en
evidence le succes de cette operation et la capacite de VITA a distribuer du credit dans ce secteur
particulier qui est celui des petites entreprises du secteur informel urbain, qui n'avait pas acces jusqu'a
present a des services financiers. Au cours du premier trimestre 1993, VITA a procedd a une enquete
aupres de ses clients, en vue de mesurer les effets des credits distribues. Cette etude montre que 96 %
des emprunteurs sont prets a renouveler leur demande, que 76 % souhaitent constituer une epargne qui,
pour 57 % constituerait une reserve de securite et pour 37 % serait une garantie pour VITA et faciliterait
l'obtention d'un credit ulterieur. Les frais de service (interets) sont juges raisonnables par 96%, et les
prestations sont jugees bonnes ou excellentes par 92 % des personnes enquetees. La demonstration de
cette capacite de VITA ne doit pas occulter les differences fondamentales qui separent, au niveau de
l'approche, le financement d'une activite de production agricole ou d'elevage et celui des entreprises
artisanales et commerciales dans les zones urbaines. La premiere activite est tributaire des cycles de
production annuels, voire pluriannuels dans le cas de l'elevage bovin (une vache n'aura pas son premier
veau avant I'age de trois ans) et ces production sont a faible rentabilite, avec pour premier souci la
securite alimentaire. Dans le cas des activites urbaines financees par VITA, I'argent tourne rapidement
et ia rentabilite est elevee. Une autre difference importante se situe dans les mentalit6s et les
raisonnements economiques entre les zones rurales et urbaines. Enfin les risques lids aux aleas
climatiques, pathologiques ou autres sont incomparablement plus importants dans les productions agricoles
ou animales.
17.    VITA n'a pas d'experience du financement de la production agricole ni des contacts avec le milieu
rural ou celui des eleveurs et l'assistance que VITA peut apporter en matiere de formation et suivi n'est
pas de meme nature et n'a pas le meme interat que dans les milieux urbains. Une autre difficulte est le
coat eleve de ses prestations lid a plusieurs facteurs: (a) les salaires eleves du personnel, motives par leur
degre de qualification: un agent de credit pergoit 200 a 250.000 FCFA par mois, plus les charges et la
logistique; (b) les moyens de fonctionnement sophistiqu6s ; et (c) la contribution des projets de VITA
au financement de son siege, a Arlington, VA. C'est ainsi que pour le Projet de d6veloppement des
savanes vivrieres (PDSV), VITA avait evalue en premiere analyse le coft de ses prestations a plus de
700.000 dollars pour une duree de deux ans. II faut aussi noter que, compte tenu de la nature des
prestations de VITA, le maintien de celles-ci au dela d'un financement exterieur disponible ne serait pas
possible.
18.   Le CICM. Un projet de creation de caisses mutuelles d'epargne et de credit a commence ses
activites en janvier 1993 pour une phase pilote de trois ans. II est execute par le Centre international de
credit mutuel (CICM), sur un financement de la Caisse frangaise de developpement (CFD). Son
programme prevoit dans cette premiere phase de creer six caisses a Bangui et sa peripherie, trois caisses
I M'BaYki et sa region, et trois autres a Berberati et ses environs. C'est un projet tout a fait specialise,
dirige par un expatrie ayant a son actif une solide experience de la banque et du credit mutuel. Ce type



- 75 -
Annex no. 6
page 7 of 15
de projet a deja connu un large developpement avec succes dans un certain nombre de pays du continent
comme le Congo, le Burundi, la Guinee, le Senegal, etc.... En quelques mois, ce projet a constitue une
equipe de cadres nationaux, les a formes, a mis au point son organisation interne et a largement entamne
la phase de sensibilisation des principaux quartiers de Bangui et de M'BaIki avec l'appui des responsables
locaux. La premiere caisse a ete inauguree en janvier 1994 et plusieurs autres sont sur le point de l'etre.
Le processus de creation commence par des reunions de sensibilisation dans les villages ou les quartiers
avec le concours des autorites locales. Quand s'exprime la volont6 de creer une caisse, les animateurs
font designer par les personnes presentes un comite de promotion dont les membres vont etre charges de
recueillir les adhesions sous la forme de souscription d'une part sociale de 1.000 FCFA et un droit
d'adhesion de 1.000 FCFA. Lorsque le nombre d'adhesions est estime suffisant, soit 200 a 300, le projet
va convoquer une assemblee gen6rale constitutive qui va constater le montant du capital social, adopter
les statuts de la caisse mutuelle et proceder a l'election des membres du conseil d'administration et du
president. Puis le conseil se reunira pour elaborer le reglement interieur et selectionner des candidats au
poste de gerant de la caisse mutuelle qui seront proposes au projet. Celui-ci fera subir des tests aux
candidats et, si plusieurs sont reconnus valables, le conseil d'administration fera le choix definitif.
Parallelement le projet aura choisi un local pour y installer la caisse avec le concours des membres du
conseil, local qui sera equipe et meuble par les soins du projet. La caisse mutuelle sera alors prete a
ouvrir ses portes aux societaires. Dans une premiere phase, les societaires seront invites deposer leur
epargne et leur disponibilites, avec comme arguments la securite, la disponibilite, la remuneration et la
possibilite d'obtenir un credit. Apres une phase d'epargne de six mois, la caisse pourra commencer a
distribuer des credit a hauteur de 30 % de l'epargne collectee dans un premier temps. Si tout se passe
bien, ce quota pourra Wre porte progressivement a 50 %. L'exc6dent d'epargne, au dela de l'encaisse
minimum, sera verse a une caisse centrale des caisses mutuelles qui sera geree par le projet et fera l'objet
de placements dans le systeme bancaire afin d'en optimiser le produit. Les taux prevus par le projet sont
de 4 % I'an pour l'epargne et de 2 % par mois pour le credit. La duree maximum des credits sera de 12
mois, et ils seront remboursables par mensualites. Au niveau des societaires, ceux-ci pourront demander,
apres une phase d'epargne prdalable de six mois, un credit repr6sentant deux fois et jusqu'a trois fois
maximum, le montant de leur epargne. Leur depOt sera bloque pendant la duree du pret et une garantie
complementaire leur sera demandee, en principe une caution solvable assortie de delegation de salaire.
19.    Les principaux avantages d'un tel systeme resident dans son caractere educatif, sa gestion par des
responsable locaux, et dans la distribution de credits finances entierement par l'epargne locale. Ce type
de projet est destine a devenir autonome au bout d'un certain nombre d'annees, mais il faut prevoir un
delai assez long. Son coCt d'implantation et de fonctionnement est peu eleve du fait que les installations
sont simples et que les gerants, indemnises au depart par le projet, sont progressivement pris en charge
par leur caisse. Le taux de recouvrement dans ce type de systeme est eleve grace a la garantie solidaire.
Enfin le systeme est construit dans une perspective de perennite et laisse en fin de projet des institutions
locales congues pour continuer a se developper. Le premier handicap et le plus important est qu'il s'agit
d'un processus long, qui demande du temps pour etre pleinement operationnel delai de constitution
d'une caisse, creation des caisses etalee dans le temps, delai de la phase d'epargne, cr6dit seulement a
court terme dans les premieres ann6es. Enfin certains consid6reront comme des inconvenients l'effort
d'epargne prealable et les conditions rigoureuses auto-imposees par le systeme, alors qu'en realite il s'agit
Ia des conditions de base du developpement. En effet le d6veloppement est d'abord le r6sultat de la
volonte du beneficiaire et de son effort personnel.
Autres opdrateurs potentiels
20.    Les banques ne s'interessent guere au milieu rural et n'ont pas les moyens de l'atteindre d'une
fagon significative. II faut cependant noter l'interet conditionnel marque par la BPMC en faveur des



- 76 -
Annex no. 6
page 8 of 15
eleveurs peuls, motive a la fois par des affinite religieuses et par le chiffre d'affaire important realise par
cette communaute. Le schema envisage par cette banque serait base sur la transformation des GIP en
societes de caution mutuelle qui garantiraient les prets accordes par la banque, suivant les pratiques en
vigueur dans les banque populaires. Le capital des societes de caution mutuelle serait constitue par le GIP
et les cotisations de ses membres et augmente de prelevement a chaque realisation de pret. Les conditions
pour obtenir un pret de la BPMC seraient d'avoir un compte ouvert aupres de cette banque depuis un
certain temps et de beneficier de la garantie de la societe de caution mutuelle. L'idee paralt interessante,
mais se heurte pour le moment a deux problemes majeurs qui peuvent s'attenuer dans le temps: cela
suppose que (a) la BPMC ouvre des agences en province et en particulier dans les zones d'elevage, avec
toujours la necessit6 de conquerir assez rapidement une clientele de 1.500 a 2.000 chefs de famille et
d'arriver en quelques annees a la rentabilite des agences, ce qui parait difficile dans la conjoncture
actuelle ; et (b) les eleveurs viennent ouvrir un compte bancaire dans les agences ainsi creees, ce qui
para^lt tres premature compte tenu des barrieres culturelles et sociales existantes.
21.    Deux ONG confessionnelles ont pris en RCA une grande extension. Une partie de leurs
nombreuses activites est consacree au developpement et les a amen6es a distribuer quelques cr6dits en
milieu rural sous diverses formes: il s'agit de l'Eglise evangdlique (PAEDAS) et de l'Animation rurale
(AR). Le PAEDAS realise un certain nombre d'actions en milieu rural: constitution de groupements
villageois, distribution de plants et de semences a cr6dit, developpement de la culture attelee a travers les
groupements cres, achats de moulins a manioc, construction de quelques maisons. Ces activites de credit
de faible importance ont des resultats divers suivant l'objet, mais toujours avec des taux de recouvrement
insuffisants. L'AR est une organisation importante rattachee a Caritas, qui a ouvert 60 centres repartis
sur l'ensemble du territoire sauf le nord-est, et emploie pres de 180 personnes. Son influence s'etend
sur 1.900 villages, soit pres de 450.000 habitants. Ses principaux objectifs sont la valorisation du travail
de la terre, I'auto-promotion collective et la formation. Son action est basee sur des comites villageois
de d6veloppement qui cherchent a regrouper toutes les forces vives du village et restent distincts des
conseils traditionnels qui jouent un role politique et administratif au profit de l'Etat. Les centres de l'AR
ont des animateurs, a raison de deux a quatre par centre, et leur role est centre sur l'animation villageoise
globale, avec l'etude des problemes du milieu et du village, la reflexion collective, la creation de
groupements et une aide eventuelle. Si un probleme specifique se pose dans un domaine precis, I'AR va
faire appel a une ONG specialisee pour tenter de le resoudre. Dans ce cadre, I'AR a mis en place
quelques credits, limites en nombre et en montant du fait de ses ressources. Ces credits concernent surtout
des actions collectives: pharmacies villageoises, groupements d'artisans (dont un groupement d'artisans
qui fabrique des charrettes de bonne qualite a des prix competitifs). Ces prats sont ger6s de facon
empirique et posent souvent des problemes de recouvrement, mais c'est la un accessoire dans l'activitd
generale de l'ONG. L'AR est tres integree au milieu, mais sa grosse difficulte est son manque de moyens
financiers qui a pour effet que beaucoup d'animateurs n'ont pas de moyens de transport et ont une faible
remuneration.
Le choix de l'operateur
22.    Comme on a pu le constater, le choix est relativement limite, mais en realite, il faut trouver deux
operateurs: un organisme competent dans le domaine bancaire et specialise en organisation mutualiste,
qui sera l'operateur principal et un autre qui ait une experience en matiere d'animation rurale et une
implantation dans les zones d'elevage, afin de prendre en charge la creation et l'animation des caisses
villageoises, qui seront nombreuses et dispersees, taches que l'operateur principal n'aurait pas les moyens
de realiser.



- 77 -
Annex no, 6
page 9 of 15
23.    Operateur principal. Pour ce qui est du premier, ni les banques, ni les ONG nationales n'ont les
moyens d'executer le volet cr6dit du projet. II s'agit en effet de mettre a la disposition des eleveurs des
credits destines a optimiser et valoriser les actions envisagees dans le projet. Dans l'etat actuel des choses,
seules deux organisations seraient en mesure d'apporter leur concours: VITA et le CICM. Leurs qualites
et inconvenients ont ete examines: VITA serait probablement en mesure de mettre en place des credits
dans des delais assez rapides, avec un taux de recouvrement satisfaisant. Cependant, Vita devrait ouvrir
cinq a six succursales dans l'interieur afin de se rapprocher des eleveurs et, compte tenu de leur
dispersion et de la duree de cinq ans, le cotlt de son intervention pour le projet serait probablement tres
eleve. En supposant que VITA puisse traiter avec les differents projets en cours ou en prevision et
permette ainsi aux bailleurs de fonds de realiser des economies d'echelle et qu'elle soit en mesure de
developper et de maitriser correctement un reseau d'une dizaine de succursales, le co(lt de ses prestations
ne pourrait pas We inferieur a 1,5 millions de dollars pour une duree de cinq ans. De plus, VITA ne
pourrait pas continuer a assurer ses fonctions au dela de la duree du projet sans un soutien exterieur.
Enfin le colit des credits distribues est eleve pour le budget d'une famille d'eleveurs peuls. Les
interventions du CICM auraient un developpement plus lent: le CICM pourrait mettre en place trois
caisses mutuelles dans la premiere annee du projet et les premiers credits a la fin de la premiere annee.
Les grandes regions d'elevages pourraient etre pourvues d'une douzaine de caisses mutuelles d'eleveurs
dans les trois ou quatre premieres annees du projet. Le taux de recouvrement serait equivalent sinon
superieur a celui de VITA et le coft global des prestations du CICM sur cinq ans et pour la mise en place
de 12 caisses serait de l'ordre de 1 million de dollars (avant devaluation du FCFA). Le recours au CICM
aurait plusieurs autres avantages importants: (a) susciter, mobiliser et securiser l'epargne locale ; (b)
impliquer les eleveurs eux-mames dans la gestion de leurs institutions financieres ; et (c) construire un
reseau de caisses integrees dans un systeme national global et destine a servir durablement ses societaires.
Outre les avantages enonces, ce choix permettrait d'etendre rapidement le reseau mutualiste et, peut-etre
: termrre, de faciliter l'integration des eleveurs eux-memes dans les populations autochtones locales. Dans
des entretiens prealables de presentation sommaire, le CICM et la CFD ont envisage cette solution comme
possible. Le meme CICM sera probablement sollicite par d'autres projets de developpement et il lui
restera a apprecier s'il est en mesure de repondre a toutes ces sollicitations dans les deux annees qui
viennent. Les moyens necessaires a la constitution d'un reseau de caisses specifiques aux eleveurs et au
projet ont seuls ete envisages et leur coct evalue en collaboration avec le CICM a Bangui.
24.   Operateur d'animation rurale. Le Departement d'Animation Mutualiste de la FNEC (DAM) parait
tout designe pour collaborer avec l'operateur principal a la creation des caisses villageoises: les deux
organisations etabliraient les programmes annuels de developpement du reseau, l'operateur principal
formerait les animateurs du DAM concernes. Ces derniers pourraient alors proceder a la sensibilisation
et a la creation des caisses villageoises, qui rentreraient alors dans le cadre general du systeme.
Cependant, il faut garder en memoire la presence de I'AR dans les zones rurales, en particulier dans la
region de Bossangoa. En effet, dans cette region, soumise A l'insecurite depuis quelques temps, coexistent
dans des conditions variables mais souvent conflictuelles, des GIP et des GIR, groupements d'interet rural
crees par la societe cotonniere, parfois dans le meme village. L'AR du diocese de Bossangoa comporte
quatre centres et 12 animateurs et le DAM pourrait consulter cette structure sur l'opportunite et la faon
de creer les caisses villageoises et s'appuyer sur elle. II resterait a specialiser partiellement certains des
animateurs du DAM pour etre en mesure de remplir leur mission dans ce domaine.
V. UN SYSTEME DE CREDIT MUTUALISTE POUR L'ELEVAGE
25.    La conception d'un systeme financier apte a rendre aux eleveurs les services dont ils ont besoin
necessite la prise en compte de leurs caracteristiques socio-economiques, de leur dispersion geographique,



- 78 -
Annex no. 6
page 10 of 15
qui est un probleme majeur, de leurs moyens de deplacement, de I'economie de leurs troupeaux, de leurs
besoins de services financiers. II paralt possible de mettre en place sans trop de difficultes une solution
mutualiste du fait de l'existence d'un reseau d'organisations economiques mutualistes qui a ddmontre son
utilite et son efficacite: les GIP et les FELGIP. II s'agit de proposer une organisation analogue pour
l'epargne et le credit, avec des comp6tences specifiques. La presentation de ce systeme faite a plusieurs
groupes d'eleveurs a recu un accueil favorable de leur part. A l'image des organisations existantes, le
systeme propose comprendrait trois niveaux: (a) l'operateur principal, avec lequel le Fonds
interprofessionnel de developpement de l'elevage (FIDE) ou l'Emprunteur passerait un accord subsidiaire;
(b) des caisses mutuelles dans les agglomerations oC se sont constitues des FELGIP et autour desquelles
on trouve une certaine concentration d'eleveurs ; et (c) des caisses villageoises a cote des GIP qui seraient
trop eloignes des caisses mutuelles et qui presenteraient un effectif suffisant ou la possibilite de se
regrouper avec d'autres GIP.
L'operateur principal
26.    Le r6le de l'operateur se situerait a trois niveaux: (a) passer un accord general avec la FNEC
pour des periodes de deux ans renouvelables et etablir des relations suivies avec le departement
d'animation mutualiste de la FNEC, pour une programmation annuelle des actions et leur mise en oeuvre
; (b) assurer tout le processus de creation des caisses mutuelles, la formation specifique des responsables,
la mise en place, l'assistance et le controle des caisses, ainsi que la centralisation financiere des exc6dents
d'epargne ou la redistribution d'avances aux caisses ; (c) assurer la formation des animateurs du DAM
qui seront charges de la creation des caisses villageoises.
27. L'accord avec la FNEC, apres avoir situe le cadre general, prevoirait les contributions de chacun
des partenaires. L'operateur aurait la charge de constituer une equipe d'animation speciale, avec ses
moyens de travail et de deplacement, sur un budget alimente sur fonds du projet et place sous la
responsabilite de l'operateur. Cette equipe, placee sous la responsabilite de l'operateur, serait chargee de
la creation des caisses, de la formation technique des responsables, de l'assistance et du controle.
L'operateur aurait egalement a fournir au FIDE, tous les trimestres, un rapport relatant les activites
menees, les resultats et les statistiques d'activite en epargne et credit.
28.    Le projet aurait a fournir le budget necessaire au fonctionnement de l'equipe. Le FIDE fournirait
une contribution au fonds de garantie des credits. Par ailleurs, la FNEC s'engagerait a assurer
l'alphabetisation et la formation de base a la gestion de tous les responsables des caisses en voie de
creation, a travers son departement d'animation mutualiste. La FNEC mettrait egalement a la disposition
de l'operateur les locaux de ses installations a Bouar, Bossembele et Bambari pour la formation technique
que ce dernier aurait a dispenser aux eleveurs responsables des caisses. Enfin le DAM jouera un r6le
important dans la sensibilisation des membres des GIP et des autres eleveurs a la creation de caisses
villageoises et la formation de base de leurs responsables.
29.    Les conditions financieres des services fournis par les caisses mutuelles et villageoises seraient
definies dans l'accord entre le FIDE et l'operateur et pourraient etre revues chaque annee par un accord
entre les parties. Sous reserve de l'approbation des parties, ces conditions seraient celles du marche, soit
(a) taux crediteur de l'epargne des societaires: 4% I'an; (b) taux debiteur des credits: 24% ; (c) phase
d'epargne avant credit a court terme: 6 mois ; et (d) obtention d'un pret a moyen terme: phase
d'epargne soutenue de 18 mois ou remboursement sans probleme d'au moins un pret a court terme. Les
deux contractants s'engageraient egalement a veiller, au cours de leurs actions de controle respectives,
a ce que la gestion des fonds des caisses mutuelles ou villageoises d'une part, et celle des fonds de



- 79 -
Annex no. 6
page 11 of 15
roulement des GIP et FELGIP d'autre part, soient nettement separee et assuree par des personnes
distinctes.
Les caisses mutuelles
30.    Quel que soit l'operateur retenu en definitive (apres appel d'offre international), ces caisses seront
mises en place suivant un processus similaire I celui mis au point par l'equipe actuelle du CICM,
puisqu'a la date de demarrage du projet, elle aura deja ouvert plusieurs caisses mutuelles sur le territoire
de la RCA. Le planning propose pour la mise en place des caisses, etudie en collaboration avec le DAM,
est le suivant:
Region        ann6e 1        annee 2       annee 3
Ouest         Bouar         Baboua         Niem-Yelowa
Bozoum (1 caisse)
Centre        Boda          Yaloke         Bossangoa
Bossembele
Est           Bambari        Alindao (1 caisse)
Total annuel    3            5                4
31.    Douze caisses mutuelles seraient ainsi crees dans les trois premieres annees du projet, couvrant
les grandes zones d'elevage ot on trouve des concentrations suffisantes d'eleveurs. Trois seulement
seraient ouvertes la premiere annee, pour tenir compte de la mise en place de l'equipe specifique et des
d6lais de formation. A la troisieme annee, deux caisses ont ete prevues mais non situ6es: cette flexibilite
permettra de mieux les localiser en fonction des programmes annuels de travail. Ces caisses seront dans
un premier temps ouvertes des qu'un effectif de 150 societaires aura ete reuni, dans le milieu des
eleveurs, qui est assez exclusif, mais it serait souhaitable qu'elles puissent etre ouvertes a tous
progressivement. Les decisions d'accepter de nouveaux societaires non eleveurs seraient du ressort du
conseil d'administration de chaque caisse. Les caisses mutuelles seraient situees dans des centres
regionaux, prefecture ou sous-prefectures et recevraient la clientele des eleveurs situes dans perimetre de
15 a 20 km autour de ce centre, ainsi que celle de tous les GIP de la regions qui y seraient incites par
les animateurs du DAM. Les regles de fonctionnement des GIP pourraient m8me etre modifiees pour les
obliger k ne conserver qu'une encaisse minime au village, et deposer le reste a la caisse mutuelle. Cela
eviterait bien des deboires aux GIP dont l'argent est conserve chez le pharmacien et permettrait aux GIP
de payer leurs achats par virement a la FNEC par le biais de leur caisse de credit et d'eviter ainsi bien
des risques.
Les caisses villageoises
32.    Les caisses villageoises serait constituees k partir d'un effectif de 30 a 50 eleveurs societaires,
et permettraient de rapprocher le systeme des campements et villages eloignes des centres. Elles seraient
constituees 1a oti se trouve un GIP actif et comportant un effectif suffisant d'eleveurs desireux d'adherer,
et Ia oti on peut reunir les membres de deux ou trois GIP voisins pour aboutir au meme resultat. Elles
deviendraient adherentes des caisses mutuelles regionales, en tant que personnes morales, comme les GIP,
moyennant l'acquisition d'une part sociale de 10.000 FCFA par GIP. Ces caisses villageoises seraient
rUalisaes sur le modUle des autres caisses mais un peu simplifif : un comite de gestion de quatre ou cinq
personnes maximum, et un caissier benevole au depart, puis indemnise par sa caisse sur les resultats
financiers de l'activite. La sensibilisation serait assuree par les animateurs du DAM et la formation serait



- 80 -
Annex no, 6
page 12 of 15
la meme, assuree conjointement par le DAM et l'operateur principal. Le systeme serait simplifie, tant
au niveau de l'epargne (calcul des interets par exemple) que du credit : les montants et la duree des prets
seraient plafonnes. Pour les demandes de prat qui depasseraient les plafonds, le comite de la caisse
villageoise formulerait un avis et adresserait la demande a la caisse mutuelle a laquelle elle adhere, avec
sa garantie, en lui demandant de faire elle meme le pret. Enfin l'installation serait plus sommaire, un
coffre de fabrication locale (a Bangui), scell6 chez le caissier ou dans un local construit par le village.
33.   Les premieres caisses villageoises seraient constituees a partir de la creation des premieres caisses
mutuelles regionales, de faqon a ce qu'elles aient toujours un lien avec le systbme. II faudrait prevoir une
representation de ces petites caisses dans le conseil d'administration des grandes. Le planning de mise
en place de ces caisses villageoises devra etre elabore chaque annee en concertation entre le DAM et
l'operateur principal, mais il peut Wre ebauch6 en nombre de la facon suivante:
Region        annee 1       annee 2       annee 3       annee 4       annee 5
Ouest          2              7             10            7             6
Centre         2              7             8             7             5
Est            2              5             8             5             4
Total annuel    6            19            26             19            15
Cumul          6             25            51             70            85
C'est un total de 85 caisses villageoises qui pourraient atre creees au cours des cinq annees du projet, ce
qui represente une pour deux GIP existant a l'heure actuelle et un sur trois GIP pr6vus en fin de projet.
Previsions d'activite
34.    Previsions de collecte d'epar2ne. La capacit6 de collecte des caisses va evoluer selon trois
parametres: (a) le nombre de caisses ; (b) le nombre moyen de societaires par caisse; et (c) le montant
moyen des dep6ts par societaire. Sur la base de l'evaluation de la capacite d'epargne realisee et des
programmes de mises en place de caisses, on peut envisager les previsions de collecte suivantes, a titre
indicatif, au tableau ci-dessous. La collecte totale au sein de la communaut6 peul pourrait depasser un
encours de 500 millions de FCFA (0,9 M de dollars) a la cinquieme annee du projet: cela represente
moins de la moitie du prelevement annuel de la zakat. Ces chiffres pourraient etre revus a la hausse, en
particulier les premieres ann6es, en tenant compte de l'apport potentiel des GIP, qui detiennent plus de
80 millions de FCFA, dont la moitie en numeraire, et un quart sous forme de creances.
Parametres           annee I       annde 2       annee          nn4          anne 5
Caisses mutuelles      3             8             12            12            12
Societaires/CM        150           160           180           200           220
Total societ. CM     450           1280          2160          2400          2640
Epargne/societ (mF)    35           40            50             65            80
Collecte CM (MF)      15,7          51,2          108           156           211
Caisses villageoises   6            25            51            70             85
Societaires/CV        30            35            40            50             60
Total societ. CV      180           875          2040          3500          5100
epargne/soc.CV (mF)   30            35            40             50            60
Collecte CV (MF)       5,4          30,6          81,6          175           306
Collecte totale (MF)    21          82            190           331           517



- 81 -
Annex no. 6
page 13 of 15
35.    Evaluation des besoins de credit. Deux approches peuvent etre utilisees pour evaluer les besoins
de credit: l'une essaie d'evaluer les besoins individuels des societaires, I'autre part des objets de credit
et des objectifs de developpement du projet. Dans un premier temps, la premiere approche sera utilisee,
et pourra etre confront6e a la deuxieme quand les objectifs de la composante seront arretes. On pourra
distinguer cinq categories de credit, dont deux a court terme: besoins familiaux et besoins professionnels
(agriculture et produits veterinaires), et deux sortes de prats a moyen terme: pour les investissements
individuels et pour les infrastructure collectives. Pour acceder a des durees de remboursement de quatre
a six ans, il faudra deja avoir fait la preuve de sa capacit6 par le remboursement ponctuel d'un precedent
pret a court terme. En cas d'un diff6r6 de remboursement en capital, la caisse devra s'entourer de solides
garanties, qui pourront etre consolidees par un fonds de garantie. Une premiere approche des besoins de
credit donne les chiffres suivants, ob) l'on peut noter que la distribution du cr6dit connaitrait une
croissance tres rapide, comme l'epargne, et atteindrait un total proche de 900 millions de FCFA sur les
cinq ans du projet:
Mises en place annuelles de credits
Rubrigues     annee 1        annee 2       annee 3       annee 4        annee 5
Nb soc. CM      450           1280          2160           2400          2640
Nb soc. CV      180            875          2040           3500          5100
Total societ.    630          2155          4200           5900          7740
Prets                               (millions de FCFA)
CT familiaux      5            25             60            110           160
CT professionnels    5         25             60            110           160
total CT       10            50            120           220            320
MT invest. ind.    -            10            20            35             55
MT infrastructures  -           5             10             15            20
Total MT          0            25             80            180           255
Total general    10            65             150           270           395
Intervention du Fonds de developpement de l'dlevage
36.    Dans le cadre du projet, le FIDE pourrait consacrer environ 40 millions de FCFA par an au
soutien de l'elevage par le refinancement de prets a court terme pour les intrants d'elevage et a moyen
terme pour l'equipement des eleveurs, par des aides directes et par la dotation d'un fonds de garantie de
l'elevage (FGE).
37.    Financement des prets 4 court et A moyen terme. Les besoins de refinancement a court et I moyen
terme sont calcules a partir des encours de credits qui tiennent compte des remboursements. A partir de
ces chiffres annuels, il sera possible de calculer la contribution du FIDE au refinancement des cr6dits,
apres deduction des autres participations.
38.    Aides directes aux eleveurs pauvres. L'aide directe aux 6leveurs pourrait s'exercer par une
contribution a l'epargne prealable. L'epargne prealable peut en effet representer un frein dans 1'accbs au
cr6dit des eleveurs les plus pauvres et, selon les regles internes du credit mutuel, il faut atteindre un tiers
du montant du credit, soit 80.000 FCFA pour un pret de 240.000 FCFA. Si le FIDE procede a un



- 82 -
Annex no. 6
page 14 of 15
versement equivalent a l'epargne accumulee par l'eleveur, I'exigence pour l'eleveur est ramenee a 40.000
FCFA, ce qui pour lui est accessible en un ou deux ans. Pour faciliter l'acces au credit des eleveurs
pauvres, le FIDE pourrait contribuer pour 50% a l'effort d'epargne de ces eleveurs, avec un plafond de
40.000 FCFA par famille d'eleveur. Cette contribution resterait bloquee sur le compte de 1'e1eveur
beneficiaire et, apres le remboursement total du prat de reconstitution de cheptel, serait versee I un fonds
de garantie local. Ces fonds resteraient ainsi au niveau local, contribuant a ameliorer la situation
financiere des organisation de base.
39.    Fonds de garantie de l'elevage. L'activite de credit a un secteur comme l'elevage bovin en RCA
presente un certain nombre de risques, lies a de nombreux facteurs: degradation ces dernieres annees
des prix du b6tail a la production, mobilite des familles d'eleveurs qui existe toujours meme si elle s'est
attenuee, pathologie toujours importante et risques latents d'epidemie, risque de deces de l'eleveur.
MWme si le risque final est globalement assez faible pour le preteur, car il y a toujours le troupeau qui
est un capital d'exploitation tout a fait mobilisable, ce risque peut etre evalue a 5 % de l'encours des prets
realises sur ligne de credit, compte tenu du systeme dans le cadre duquel ces credits auront ete distribues.
Pour toutes ces raisons, il serait souhaitable de creer, au niveau du systeme de credit mutuel, un FGE,
qui serait gere par l'operateur du systeme et serait utilise par lui pour maintenir a son niveau initial le
montant du fonds de credit aliment6 par le FIDE. Le montant de ce FGE serait de 25 millions de FCFA,
soit 5% des credits a moyen terme, et serait verse en trois fois par le FIDE, des le demarrage de la
convention pass6e entre la FNEC et l'operateur principal, puis chacune des deux premieres annees.
VI. MOYENS NECESSAIRES
Personnel et logistique
40.    Les moyens necessaires et leur cott ont ete evalues avec l'aide du directeur du CICM a Bangui.
Le personnel de l'equipe chargee de d6velopper les caisses d'elevage comprendrait: un volontaire du
progres, diplome d'economie ou d'une ecole de commerce, qui aurait pour mission d'animer et de suivre
les activites dans les trois regions, trois animateurs nationaux a raison de un par region, qui passeraient
a six en annee 3, un formateur connaissant bien le milieu rural des eleveurs, un inspecteur de formation
comptable en premiere annee, et un deuxieme en annee 3, et un chauffeur. L'equipe comprendrait sept
personnes en fin de 1 annee et 11 en fin de projet. Elle serait dotee de moyens de deplacements
constitues par un vehicule 4x4 Toyota ou Land Rover pour le volontaire du progres, qui aura de grandes
distances a parcourir, par des vehicules 4x4 Suzuki pour les trois premiers animateurs et l'inspecteur et
par des motos 125 cm3 pour les trois autres animateurs. Chacun des membres de l'equipe recevrait un
mobilier simple et l'equipe serait dotee d'un micro-ordinateur situe au siege a Bangui. Le projet prendrait
egalement en charge les agencements, les coffres et la formation pour les caisses mutuelles et les caisses
villageoises, ainsi que la formation technique de leurs responsables. II assurerait aussi pendant les deux
premieres annee de fonctionnement des caisses mutuelles le versement aux gerants d'une indemnite de
fonction de 20.000 FCFA par mois, en attendant que les caisses prennent elles-memes le relais.
Evaluation des coOts
41.    L'estimation des coats unitaires hors taxe a ete faite en RCA au mois de mai 1993. Ces coOts
sont exprimes dans le tableau correspondant de l'analyse des coOts du projet (document de travail).



- 83 -
Annex no, 6
page 15 of 15
VII. BENEFICES ET RISOUES
42.    Les b6ndfices sont principalement de trois ordres: (a) offrir aux eleveurs des services de credit
leur permettant d'ameliorer leur activite et leur niveau de vie et mettre en oeuvre les techniques apport6es
par le projet; (b) proposer a la moitie des families d'eleveurs des instruments d'epargne a proximite de
chez eux et induire ainsi une modification des comportements face a I'argent ; et (c) laisser dans les
regions d'elevage un reseau de pres de 100 caisses mutuelles et villageoises autogerees et aptes k
continuer a se developper apres la fin du projet. Les credits distribues devraient s'elever a 900 millions
de FCFA, permettant a environ 6.000 families d'eleveurs d'am6liorer leur approvisionnement en periode
de soudure et leur niveau de vie, de developper leurs activites agricoles, d'augmenter progressivement
le nombre et la qualite de leurs bovins reproducteurs et d'ameliorer leur habitat et leurs moyens de
transport. Quelques 1.850 dons, geres independamment du systeme de credit mutuel, viendraient en
supplement pour la reconstitution de cheptel permettant l'achat de pres de 10.000 bovins reproducteurs.
La possibilite pour les eleveurs de d6poser leurs avoirs en numeraire et leurs disponibilites courantes est
un atout important, pour la securite de ces sommes, qui atteindront 500 millions de FCFA en fin du
projet. Les sommes ainsi epargnee par chacun des societaires des caisses sont pour le developpement de
ceux-ci un atout au moins aussi important que les cr6dits qu'elles vont permettre de leur attribuer, tant
par la valeur des montants autofinances que par le caractere educatif et la responsabilisation induite par
cette epargne. Enfin un reseau d'une centaine de caisses mutuelles et villageoises represente a la fois un
atout essentiel pour le developpement du pays et un creuset oti, a terme, I'integration des eleveurs pourra
se realiser. De plus 500 responsables elus auront regu une formation specifique et exerce des
responsabilites dans la gestion de leur caisses et l'attribution des credits. Ils constitueront progressivement
une elite du milieu rural et des eleveurs, non plus bas6e sur l'appartenance a un clan ou une lignee, mais
sur la competence, I'experience et l'exercice des responsabilites.
43.    Les risgues de l'operation relevent de deux ordres. Le premier est que l'operation s'avere trop
lourde pour l'operateur et le second qu'elle ne soit pas suffisamment remuneratrice pour permettre au
systeme de se maintenir apres l'arret des financements exterieurs.






- 85 -
Annex no 7
page 1 of 6
ANNEXE 7
REPUBLIOUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE ET DE GESTION DES PARCOURS
ORGANISATION DE L'ANDE.
Introduction
1.    L'Agence nationale pour le developpement de l'elevage (ANDE) a 6te creee en 1989 pour se
substituer I un service de l'elevage du Ministere du developpement rural dont l'inefficacite s'etait averEe
un obstacle I la mise en oeuvre du premier projet de developpement de l'elevage. n1 existe donc I l'heure
actuelle, sous la forme du bureau de l'elevage au Ministere de I'agriculture et de l'levage (MAE), une
unite administrative reduite a sa plus simple expression, apportant son appui au cabinet, et I laquelle sont
rattach6es les cliniques veterinaires urbaines qui existent dans les trois villes principales et l'inspection
zoo-sanitaire a l'aeroport de Bangui-Mpoko et au port fluvial. L'ANDE s'est vue confier les missions
ayant un caractere de developpement (developpement de la production animale et de la sante animale) et
les missions a caractere regalien qu'elle est le mieux placee pour executer I travers son reseau de quelques
150 agents de terrain (chefs de secteurs et chefs de poste). L'inspection de salubrite aux abattoirs de
Bangui est assur6e par la Societe d'Etat de gestion des abattoirs (SEGA), ce qui est une situation
anormale, puisque, comme son nom l'indique, cette societe est impliquee dans 1'exploitation et que cette
situation est donc generatrice de conflits d'interets, qui, a terme, devront etre resolus.
2.    L'organisationde l'ANDE est conque selon deux approches complementaires: l'une administrative
et geographique, I'autre fonctionnelle. L'organisation administrative comporte un direction generale a
Bangui et trois directions regionales assurant l'encadrement de secteurs localises dans les prefectures et
de postes veterinaires au niveau des sous-prefectures. L'organisation fonctionnelle comporte trois
directions: santd animale et recherche appliquee (DSARA), production animale (DPA) et administrative
et financiere (DAF), ainsi que (a) trois services: suivi evaluation et statistiques (SSES), materiel et genie
civil (SMGC) et commercialisation et industries animales (SCPIA); et (b) une cellule formation et
vulgarisation (CFCV) directement rattaches a la direction generale.
3.    Dans le cadre de 1'execution du precedent projet, et parce que l'ANDE en etait l'agence
d'execution, le Departement d'animation mutualiste (DAM), en principe rattache I la FNEC, 6tait en fait
directement gere par I'ANDE. Le projet, contrairement I ceux qui l'ont pr6cede, ne prevoit pas de
reorganisation fondamentale de I'ANDE. En effet, la troisieme direction regionale, envisagee lors de la
preparation, a ete mise en place au dernier trimestre 1993, et la gestion du DAM a ete transfer6e I la
FNEC le premier janvier 1994. Les modifications touchant l'organisation administrative comportent d'une
part l'affectation dans chacune des directions regionales de l'ANDE, d'un cadre de la DPA et d'un autre
de la DSA, d'autre part, la suppression eventuelle d'une dizaine de postes et secteurs veterinaires localises
dans des zones depourvues de cheptel.
4.    Les modifications touchant l'organisation fonctionnelle sont plus importantes. Le projet prevoit
en effet la creation d'un service de vulgarisation zootechnique sp6cialisd (voir annexe no. 9). Comme cela



- 86 -
Annex no 7
page 2 of 6
a ete precedemment le cas pour le DAM, ce service serait cree a I'ANDE, oti it beneficierait directement
de l'appui des cellules action, et en particulier de la cellule action systemes pastoraux (CEASP), pour etre
transfere au cours de l'execution du projet a la FNEC. De meme, trois 6quipes mobiles de vaccination
dans chacune des directions regionales, seraient creees pour realiser, avec l'appui des agents de terrain
de l'ANDE, les campagnes annuelles de vaccination et les interventions eventuelles contre les foyers de
maladies contagieuses. Ces equipes pourraient etre privatisees pendant la seconde partie de l'execution
du projet et poursuivre leur activite sur la base de contrats avec I'ANDE executes dans le cadre d'un
mandat sanitaire.
5.     L'ANDE conserve donc au debut du projet les fonctions qui etaient les siennes auparavant, I
1'exclusion toutefois de celle d'agence principale d'execution, et recevra un appui financier et technique
pour lui permettre d'une part de renforcer et transferer son service de vulgarisation et ses equipes de
vaccination au secteur prive, et d'autre part, de renforcer sa capacite a poursuivre certaines missions de
developpement (developpement de l'elevage trypanotol6rant, surveillance epidemiologique, gestion
concertee et conservatoire des ressources naturelles, collecte et traitement des donnees socio-economiques
du secteur de I'elevage), ou a caractere regalien (inspection zoo-sanitaire et de salubrite dans les localites
de l'interieur du pays). Le nouveau projet de developpement de l'elevage et des parcours en RCA
comporte une serie d'actions a realiser par I'ANDE. Cette agence d'execution du MAE va continuer a
avoir la charge de certaines fonctions de droit regalien ainsi que d'autres, telles que la vulgarisation, qu'il
n' est pas possible, pour le moment, de confier a des operateurs prives.
6.    A la difference des precedents projets, I'ANDE sera, dans le cadre du nouveau projet, une agence
d'ex6cution au meme titre que la FNEC et d'autres operateurs eventuels. En effet, ce projet est congu
autour du fonds de developpement de l'elevage, institutionnalise en Fonds interprofessionnel de
developpement de l'elevage (FIDE), gere par un comite interprofessionnel de coordination (CIC), pourvu
d'une petite unite de gestion. Les ressources du FIDE proviendront d'une part des redevances prelevees
sur la filibre elevage et, d'autre part, des financements mis a disposition par les bailleurs de fonds pour
l'ex6cution du projet. Ces ressources seront reparties entre les agences d'execution (ANDE, FNEC et
autres operateurs) sur la base des Programmes d'execution technique et financibre (PETF) qu'elles auront
soumis a l'approbation du CIC. On trouvera en premiere partie le decoupage administratif et technique
de l'ANDE ; la seconde partie traite des divisions geographiques et de I'action specifique de relance de
l'elevage trypanotolerant a developper dans le cadre de la DRE (direction regionale est).
A. L'organisation fonctionnelle de l'ANDE
7.     La structure actuelle de l'ANDE n'est pas fondamentalement modifiee par le nouveau projet ; par
contre, les effectifs de presque tous les services sont revus a la baisse. Le Service administratif et financier
(SAF) n'aura plus I gerer d'autre budget que celui de I'ANDE, contrairement I ce qui se passe encore
aujourd'hui. D'autre part, it sera considerablement aide par la cellule financiere de contrOle et de
coordination rattachee au secretariat permanent du CIC. Au plan des procedures, le SAF sera reorganis6
autour de procedures formalisees. Ceci necessitera la mise en place de logiciels appropries, dont le logiciel
de gestion comptable SAARI, deja utilise a la FNEC. II faudra aussi rediger un manuel de proc6dures
comptables et un manuel des procedures informatiques. Enfin, le personnel existant pourra beneficier de
formations. En ce qui concerne la gestion du personnel, le SAF fera les projections des besoins en cours
de projet ainsi que pour les annees suivantes. II sera un interlocuteur privilegie lors de la redaction des



- 87 -
Annex no 7
page 3 of 6
plans de formation qui doivent tenir compte des besoins techniques bien sur, mais aussi de l'age des
employes et donc de leur possibilite de depart a la retraite (voir annexe 7, formation).
8.     Le Service de genie civil (SGC) sera reduit au minimum indispensable, les travaux etant realises
par des entreprises exterieures. Son role sera limite aux passages des marches et au controle des travaux
en cours et en fin d'execution. L'entretien des vehicules realise par le SGC sera limite a l'entretien de
base. Les autres r6parations plus consequentes seront realis6es par les garages prives de la place. Ceci
devrait permettre de realiser des economies en personnel souvent sous-employe.
9.     Le Service de suivi evaluation (SSE) sera toujours base a I'ANDE, meme si il est amnene a
travailler sur 1'ensemble des activites financees par le projet. La direction du CIC est responsable de la
mise en oeuvre des operations necessaires en matiere de suivi-evaluation; elle en gere les ressources et
fait realiser ces operations par le SSE ou par des bureaux d'etudes. Dans la pratique, l'importance donne
au suivi-evaluation sera considerablement augmentee et les activites de terrain ne seront poursuivies que
si la valeur des indicateurs retenus indique clairement qu'une amelioration a suivi l'action entreprise. La
collecte d'informations sur le terrain serait realis6e par les chefs de secteurs et les chefs de postes qui en
dependent. Cette fonction est indispensable au bon fonctionnement du dispositif de suivi-evaluation.
10.   Le Service de vulgarisation (SV) est le seul nouveau service de l'ANDE. Sa creation fait suite au
constat suivant: le melange des roles d'animateur et de vulgarisateur amene une confusion certaine dans
la comprehension des themes d'amelioration des productions animales chez les eleveurs. Ce service sera
transf6rd a la FNEC en fin de projet, sous une forme et avec des effectifs compatibles avec les moyens
de cette federation. L'appartenance a I'ANDE est necessaire au depart, dans la mesure oti les services
techniques annexes (notamment, les etudes action) relevent de I'ANDE. La collaboration du service de
vulgarisation avec le DAM (departement de l'action mutualiste) de la FNEC se poursuivra comme par le
passe et facilitera le transfert en fin de projet.
11.   La Direction de la sante animale (DSA) est le resultat de la separation de la recheche appliqude
qui lui etait rattachee auparavant. Les aspects "recherche" qui lui revenaient ont ete limit6s aux seules
etudes-actions. La DSA conserve le controle du laboratoire national veterinaire de Bangui, dont le rOle
est de couvrir les besoins de l'ensemble du pays, les laboratoires regionaux de Bouar et de Bambari ayant
e  fermes par manque de justification economique. Trois equipes regionales mobiles completent la
structure centrale du laboratoire de Bangui. Elles assurent, avec les agents de terrain (chefs de secteurs
et chefs de poste), le controle des campagnes de vaccination obligatoires, environ huit mois par an
(campagne de saison seche et campagne de saison des pluies), la surveillance serologique des troupeaux
et le controle des foyers d'epizooties. La DSA est responsable de la preparation et de l'execution de
l'operation pilote de lutte contre la brucellose. Les moyens necessaires a la realisation de cette operation
lui sont confies par d'autres bailleurs de fonds. Elle a aussi la charge de mettre en place le cordon
sanitaire entre les troupeaux d'Afrique orientale et ceux de RCA et d'Afrique de l'Ouest en general,
finance par l'operation regionale FED/PARC. Enfin, elle assure la mise en place de cinq nouveaux postes
de controle aux frontieres avec le Tchad (a Moyenne Sido, Markounda, Bemal et Banga-Boumbe) et le
Cameroun (Ngaoundaye). La CEASA ou cellule etude action en sante animale depend du laboratoire
national veterinaire. Elle met au point et valide les themes sante animale identifies conjointement par
service de vulgarisation et les eleveurs. Elle dispose d'une equipe mobile chargee des enquetes
epidemiologiques et d'un reseau d'eleveurs prives a travers lequel elle suit et evalue les progres techniques
obtenus en sante animale. Ce suivi-evaluation est appuye et controle par le SSE. La DSA reste responsable
des campagnes de vaccination obligatoires pour lesquelles elle pourra faire appel a des veterinaires prives



- 88 -
Anne no 7
page 4 of 6
sous mandat sanitaire. Le passage de l'execution de ces campagnes de vaccination du secteur public au
secteur prive ne pourra pas se faire integralement pendant les cinq ann6es que durera le nouveau projet,
et ce principalement par manque de veterinaires en RCA ; cependant, il faudra que le mouvement soit
amorce. A terme, la DSA ne sera plus en charge que des fonctions de droit regalien en matiere de santd
animale et d'hygiene alimentaire. Ses responsabilit6s actuelles seront donc etendues, a l'enregistrement
des medicaments veterinaires (autorisation de mise sur le marche), et a l'inspection complete des denr6es
animales ou d'origine animale. Concernant le contrBle de la mise sur le marche des medicaments
veterinaires, en application des recommandations de l'Office international des epizooties en la matiere,
il s'agira seulement de verifier que les produits proposes a l'importation ont bien recu une autorisation
de mise sur le marche dans les pays ou groupes de pays disposant d'une reglementation en la matiere
(Union Europ6enne, USA, Japon) et assurement pas de proceder systematiquement a des experimentations
que les moyens disponibles localement ne permettent pas de realiser avec la rigueur necessaire, et dont
le coOt serait disproportionn6 a la taille du marche local. II n'est en aucun cas question de renforcer les
effectifs de la DSA, la realisation des taches sur le terrain devant etre largement confiee sous contrat au
secteur prive, comme dans le cas du mandat sanitaire pour la realisation des campagnes de vaccination
obligatoires.
12.    La Direction de la production animale (DPA) aurait dO voir son importance sensiblement reduite
si l'emergence de bureaux d'etudes centrafricains, capables d'assurer la mise en place et le suivi des
AEA/ZAGROP (Associations d'eleveurs et d'agriculteurs/zones d'amenagement agro-pastoral) s'dtait
materialisee. II apparait que la constitution de tels bureaux sera plus longue que prevu, mais elle reste un
objectif. La DPA constituera donc encore pour quelque temps le noyau central de competences en matiere
d'amenagement pastoral. Ne disposant pas elle meme de la totalit6 des specialistes necessaires pour mener
A bien ces operations, il lui appartiendra de s'associer a des partenaires, de preference prives, susceptibles
de completer l1'ventail de competences requis. La difficult6 de traiter les aspects fonciers est sans doute
le probleme le plus complexe qui se pose. Sur ce point, l'intervention de sociologues ayant une
connaissance des regles traditionnelles en la matiere, sera necessaire (voir annexe 5, sur le foncier).
Toutefois, mame lorsque des bureaux fonctionnels auront e  mis en place, il restera a la DPA une
fonction de droit regalien en rapport avec l'application de la reglementation fonciere. La Cellule etude
action des systemes pastoraux (CEASP), sera rattachee a la DPA. Elle serait implantee I la station de
Bouar pour accompagner et coordonner les interventions dans le domaine de la gestion des terroirs
pastoraux. La CEASP fonctionnerait comme un bureau d'etudes aupres des producteurs, de leurs
groupements et du service de vulgarisation.
B. Les divisions gdographigues de I'ANDE
13.    Les besoins du terrain ont ete satisfaits dans les zones situees a proximite des sieges de la
Direction regionale ouest (DRO), soit Bouar, et de la Direction regionale est (DRE), soit Bambari. Le
centre, ou plus precisement le centre nord du pays est mal desservi par l'ANDE. Le besoin d'une
Direction regionale centre (DRC) a ete reconnu des la fin du dernier projet. Deux localisations etaient
possibles pour la DRC, Bossangoa ou Bossembele; c'est cette deuxieme localisation qui a ete retenue par
la Direction gdnerale de I'ANDE, lors de la creation de la DRC a la mi 1993. Des infrastructures y sont
deja disponibles et, dans la periode de crise actuellement traversee par la RCA, ces bAtiments permettent
d'eviter de faire les frais de nouvelles constructions. D'autre part, des operations pilotes avaient 6te
menees la par la DPA dans le cadre du precedent projet et l'accueil que leur avaient reserve les
populations locales 6tait satisfaisant. Le nouveau projet dispose donc de trois DR, lui assurant une



- 89 -
Annex no 7
page 5 of 6
couverture plus complete du territoire national. La DSA et la DPA sont representees au niveau de chacune
des DR. Les secteurs veterinaires sont rattaches a la DR de la region a laquelle ils appartiennent et les
postes veterinaires restent rattaches au secteur dont ils dependaient precedemment. Ce reseau d'agents de
terrain reste en charge des fonctions de droit r6galien tels la collecte d'informations, utilisables entre-
autres par le service de suivi-evaluation, ou le controle des campagnes de vaccination obligatoires.
14.   Les trois DR de I'ANDE sont localisees dans les mames agglomerations que les trois delegues
regionaux de la FNEC. Cette proximite devrait permettre un maximum d'echanges entre ces deux
structures et ainsi assurer une bonne cooperation entre les institutions; cette collaboration est d'autant plus
indispensable que leurs interlocuteurs sont les memes et qu'a terme, certaines activites telles que la
vulgarisation, seront transferees de l'ANDE a la FNEC. En consequence le personnel des DR de l'ANDE
sera certainement moins nombreux en fin de projet, certains agents partant a la retraite sans We
remplaces, d'autres optant pour la privatisation. Au plan du budget des DR, une economie sera realisde
par l'arret des deux laboratoires de diagnostic de Bouar et de Bambari, dont l'activite s'est quasimnent
arretee a la fin du dernier projet.
C. Actions developpdes par I'ANDE dans le cadre du nouveau projet
15.   C'est dans le cadre de la DRE que la relance de l'elevage trypanotolerant va etre entreprise, pour
commencer. En effet, cette region, ob un effort considerable avait ete realise il y a 30 ans pour implanter
des "metayages" de taurins "Baoules", import6s de Cote d'Ivoire et du Burkina Faso, a une epoque obi
la disponibilite des medicaments trypanocides n'etait pas aussi grande, est la zone ob ont survecu le plus
de bovins de ce type. Apres trois decennies de cohabitation, les villageois d'une part, mais aussi les
eleveurs traditionnels d'autre part, reconnaissent les qualites de rusticite et de fecondite des "taurins". Une
vive demande de reproducteurs est enregistr6e par les responsables de l'ANDE, justifiant un nouvel espoir
dans le potentiel de ce type d'animaux pour developper, sans recours force a la therapeutique, un elevage
villageois 6troitement associe aux systemes de production vivriers et de rente. En effet, la trypanosomiase
dans la region de Bambari est responsable d'une mortalite de 6% du gros betail age de zero a trois ans
et d'une fecondite limitee a environ 50%. Dans ces conditions, la faible productivite des troupeaux
pastoraux ne permet pas l'exploitation necessaire du cheptel de 13 a 19% pour assurer l'equilibre
economique des familles d'eleveurs. Le coOt de maintien d'un dlevage z6bu dans cette zone 6tait estime
(avant d6valuation) a environ 560 anciens FCFA par animal et par an. Le maintien d'un elevage dans la
zone Est, au prix du betail (170 FCFA/kg de poids vif, avant la devaluation), necessite une augmentation
de la productivite du cheptel. Celle des animaux trypanotolerants constatee actuellement permettrait de
revenir au moins a l'equilibre economique, tout en reduisant les depenses en m6dicaments veterinaires.
16.   Le but de cette operation serait double: d'une part diffuser du sang trypanotolerant au sein de
l'elevage pastoral et d'autre part, developper l'elevage sedentaire afin de r6soudre a moyen et long terme
les problemes de maintien de l'elevage bovin dans l'environnement eco-pathologique du centre-sud et de
l'Est de la RCA. Les principaux beneficiaires du projet seraient les eleveurs sedentaires de la region de
Bambari (siege de la DRE) ainsi que les eleveurs traditionnels du centre et de l'Est qui sont en voie de
decapitalisation et de sedentarisation.
17.   Les moyens necessaires sont tous ceux qui permettent d'augmenter la diffusion du betail
trypanotolerant, celle-ci etant mise en oeuvre chez des eleveurs sedentaires organises en groupements. Le
programme de travail comporte : (i) 1'encadrement de eleveurs sedentaires par une structure du type



- 90 -
Annex no 7
page 6 of 6
"groupement d'eleveurs de betail trypanotolrant" qui serait mise en place au niveau des villages et
entreprendrait le recensement des eleveurs, la description de la typologie de ce systbme d'elevage, la
sensibilisation pour la constitution d'un groupement en identifiant des eleveurs influents; (ii) la mise en
place d'un referentiel technique adapte; (iii) l'organisation de la production, sachant qu'il n'est en aucun
cas question d'installer ou de rehabiliter une fermne ou un ranch, comme cela a parfois ete le cas dans le
passe.
18. L'organisation de ce volet reposerait sur les chefs de poste et chefs de secteur de I'ANDE. Ceux ci
etabliraient l'inventaire des reproducteurs disponibles et le tiendraient a jour. UIs enregistreraient egalement
les demandes formulees par les eleveurs, et mettraient en relation les proprietaires disposant d'animaux
a vendre avec les demandeurs de geniteurs trypanotolerants. Dans le cas oti les demandeurs ne
disposeraient pas des fonds n6cessaires pour regler au comptant I'achat des animaux, les responsables de
I'ANDE les mettraient en relation avec l'organisme de credit (caisse villageoise ou caisse mutuelle) et les
aideraient eventuellement a constituer leur dossier. La DRE favoriserait l'orientation des reproductrices
vers l'elevage plutot que vers la boucherie et l'utilisation des males pour le metissage dans les troupeaux
zebu (ODV, fiches, etc.) en demontrant l'intdr6t des produits metis males et femelles.



- 91 -
ANNEX 8
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND RANGELAND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
COST TABLES






LIVESTOCK DEV. & RANGELAND MGMT. PROGRAM
Components Prolect Cost Summfrary
%    % Total
(FCFA '000)                        (US$ 'COO)            Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange Costs
A. Gestbon des Parcours                   2,096,539    2,472,073    4,568,612    3,553.5    4,190.0    7,743.4    54      31
B. Sante Animale                           478,170    1,403,745    1,881,915     810.5    2,379.2    3,189.7      75      13
C. Animation Mutualiste                    814,991    1,086,528    1,901,520    1,381.3    1,841.6    3,222.9     57      13
D. Gestion Credit Mutuel                   433,496      384,469      817,965     734.7      651.6    1,386.4      47       6
E. Reconstiution Troupeaux                1,050,500           -    1,050,500    1,780.5         -    1,780.5       -       7
F. Vulgarlsatlon                           387,603      294,937      682,540     657.0      499.9    1,156.8      43       5
G. Etudes Actlon                            53,453      136,335      189,788      90.6      231.1      321.7      72       1
H. Trypanotolerant                          64,699      192,780      257,479     109.7      326.7      436.4      75       2
I. Action Zootechnique en ZIC               23,375      256,289      279,664      39.6      434.4      474.0      92       2
J. Formation                                95,653    1,023,808    1,119,461     162.1    1,735.3    1,897.4      91       8
K. FONCTIONNEMENT DU PROGRAMME
Secretariat Directeur FIDE                74,640      798,063      872,703     126.5    1,352.6    1,479.2      91       6
Secretardat General - FNEC                 1,100      112,939      114,039       1.9      191.4      193.3      99       1
Direction Generale - ANDE                 79,200      186,107      265,307     134.2      315.4      449.7      70       2
Service Sulvl Evaluation                  74,660      174,064      248,724     126.5      295.0      421.6      70       2
Subtotal ONCTIONNEMENT DU PROGRAM          229,600    1,271,173    1,500,773     389.2    2,154.5    2,543.7      85      10
L. Fonds Preparation Programme             111.960      261,240      373,200     267.0      623.0      890.0      70       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                      5,840,039    8,783,377    14,623,417    9,975.6   15,067.3   25,042.9    60    100
Physical Contingencies                   717,299    1,046,461    1,763,760    1,215.8    1,773.7    2,989.4     59      12
Price Contingencles                     1,988,698     615,937    2,604,635    3,3707     1,044.0    4,414.6     24      18
Total PROJECT COSTS                       8,546,036    10,445,775    18,991,811    14,562.0   17,884.9   32,447.0  55    130
o 0
h
oo



REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
LIVESTOCK DEV. & RANGELAND MGMT. PROGRAM
Procurement Arrangemnents
(USS 000)
Procuremnent Method
Local
Comnpetitive  Intemational    Local    Direct   Consulting From U.N.
Bidding    Shopping    Shopping  Contracting  Services   Agencies    N.B.F.      Total
A. GENIE CIVIL                     6,586.4            -         3.4                     -         -      393.7      6,983.5
(6,586.4)                   (2.0)                                               (6,588.4)
B. EQUIPEMENT                        123.2        100.9       344.6          -          -         -      542.4      1,111.0
(73.9)       (60.5)     (206.8)                                                (341.2)
C. VEHICULES                         346.2            -           -          -          -    1,530.3    2,239.0     4,115.4
(207.7)                                                  (918.2)               (1,125.9)
D. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE                 -             -           -          -      636.7         -    3,568.4      4,205.1
(382.0)                          (382.0)
E. FORMATION                                          -           -     1,782.2     594.1          -         -      2,376.2
(1,069.3)    (356.4)                        (1,425.7)
F. RECONSTITUTION TROUPEAU              -             -     2,480.3          -          -          -         -      2,480.3
(1,240.2)                                              (1,240.2)
G. FONDS PREPARATION PROJET             -                     200.0       690.0         -          -         -        890.0
(200.0)    (550.0)                                     (750.0)
H. SALAIRES CONTRACTUELS                -                         -     3,771.1         -          -     255.4      4,026.5
(2,039.8)                                  (2,039.8)
I. FONCTIONNEMENT                                           4,367.7                     -          -    1,891.1     6,258.8
(2,740.9)                                              (2,740.9)
Total                               7,055.8        100 9     7,396.0     6,243.3    1,230.8    1,530.3    8,889.9   32,447.0
(6,868.0)       (60.5)    (4,389.8)   (3,659.1)    (738.5)    (918.2)           (16,634.1)
Note: Figures In parenthesis are the respectIve amounts financed by IDA
>s
(D X
x
01
co



LIVESTOCK DEV. & RANGELAND MGMT. PROGRAM
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Surwary
%    % Total
(FCFA '000)                         (US$ 'oCo)           Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange Costs
I. Investmnent Costs
A. GENIE CIVIL                    1,808,906    1,307,949    3,116,855    3,065.9    2,216.9    5,282.8    42      21
B. EQUIPEMENT                      107,899      441,698      549,597      182.9     748.6      931.5      80       4
C. VEHICULES                       221,441     1,833,531   2,054,972      375.3    3,107.7    3,483.0     89      14
D. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE                       2,126,617    2,126,617         -    3,604.4    3,604.4     100      14
E. FORMATION                        95,653     1,023,808    1,119,461     162.1    1,735.3    1,897.4     91       8
F. RECONSTITUTION TROUPEAU        1,050,500           -    1,050,500    1,780.5         -    1,780.5        -      7
G. FONDS PREPARATION PROJET        111,960      261,240      373,200      267.0     623.0      890.0      70       4
Total Investment Costs              3,396,359    6,994,843    10,391,202    5,833.8   12,035.9   17,869.7   67      71
II. Recurrent Costs
A. SALAIRES CONTRACTUELS          1,391,959           -    1,391,959    2,359.3         -    2,359.3        -      9
B. FONCTIONNEMENT                 1,051,721    1,788,535    2,840,256   1,782.6    3,031.4    4,814.0     63      19
Total Recurrent Costs               2,443,680    1,788,535    4,232,215   4,141.8    3,031.4    7,173.2     42      29
Total BASELINE COSTS                5,840,039    8,783,377    14,623,417    9,975.6   15,067.3   25,042.9    60    100                                         I
Physical ContingencIes             717,299     1,046,461   1,763,760    1,215.8    1,773.7    2,989.4     59      12                                       "D
Price ContIngencies               1,988,698     615,937    2,604,635    3,370.7    1,044.0    4,414.6     24      18                                        U'
Total PROJECT COSTS                 8,546,036    10,445,775    18,991,811    14,562.0   17,884.9   32,447.0  55    130                                         I
>
Un
0



REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
LIVESTOCK DEV. & RANGELAND MGMT. PROGRAM
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(USS 00)
IDA              FIDA              FAC               FED            BENFIC.           FIDE              Total
Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %      Amnount    %    Amount   %        Arnount    %      Amnount    %
I. Investmnent Costs
A. GENIE CIVIL                     6,588.4   94.3       1.4       -     108.7    1.6    284.9    4.1                 -         -       -    6,983.5   21.5
B. EQUIPEMENT                       341.2   30.7    227.5    20.5        10.7    1.0    531.7   47.9                 -         -       -    1,111.0    3.4
C.VEHICULES                        1,125.9   27.4    750.6    18.2    425.7   10.3   1,813.3   44.1          -       -         -       -    4,115.4   12.7
D. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE             382.0    9.1    254.7    6.1   2,958.5   70.4    609.9   14.5            -       --    4,205.1    13.0
E. FORMATION                       1,425.7   60.0    950.5    40.0          -       -         -       -      -       -         -       -    2,376.2    7.3
F. RECONSTITUTION TROUPEAU         1,240.2   50.0    744.1    30.0                  -         -      -  248.0    10.0    248.0   10.0    2,480.3    7.6
G. FONDS PREPARATION PROJE          750.0   84.3          -       -     140.0   15.7          -       -      -       -         -       -      890.0    2.7
Total lnvestrent Costs              11,853.5   53.5   2,928.7    13.2   3,643.6   16.4   3,239.8   14.6  248.0    1.1    248.0    1.1   22,161.7   68.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. SALAIRES CONTRACTUELS           2,039.8   50.7   1,181.3    29.3         -       -    255.4    6.3         *      -    550 0    13.7    4,026.5   12.4
B. FONCTIONNEMENT                  2,740.9   43.8    807.3   12.9    108.5    1.7   1,604.4   25.6  178.1          2.8    819.5   13.1    6,258.8   19.3          1
TotalRecurrentCosts                  4,780.7   46.5   1,988.6    193      108.5    1.1   1,859.8   18.1   178.1       1.7   1,369,5   133    10,285.3   31.7       -C
Total DIsbursement                   16,634.1    51.3   4,917.3    15.2   3,752.1    11.6   5,099.7   15.7  426.2     1.3   1,617.6    5.0   32,447.0  100.0
>
(D r0
x
o
Ft
Go



REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
LIVESTOCK DEV. & RANGELAND MGMT. PROGRAM
Components by Financiers
(US$ 000)
IDA              FIDA              FAC              FED            BENFIC.           FIDE             Total
Anmount    %      Amount    %      Amount    %      Amount    %   Amount   %         Amount    %       Amount
A. Gestiondes Parcours                    8,272.8   82.3      89.4    0.9         -           1,125.8   11.2  178.1      1.8    388.1    3.9   10,054.2
B. Sante Animabl                               -       *         -      -    381.2    9.7   3,562.7   90.3         -      -         -       -    3,943.8
C. Ankration Mutuaelste                   1,780.0   40.9   1,102.9   25.4    962.4   22.1           -      -                     502.9   11.6    4,348.2
D. Gestlon Credit Mutuel                  1,116.9   55.6    744.6   37.1    146.0    7.3                                                         2,007.4
E. Reconstiutlon Troupeaux                1,240.2   50.0    744.1    30.0         -       -        -       .  248.0   10.0    248.0   10.0    2,480.3
F. Vulgarlsatlon                           892.1    52.4    551.7   32.4                                   -       -       -    258.4   15.2    1,702.2
G. Etudes Action                               -       -         -      -         -       .    411.2  100.0        -       -        -       -      411.2
H. Trrp.ntolit                             288.5   54.9    183.4   34.9           -       -         -      -       -       -     53-7   10.2       525.6
I. Acton ZoohecnZu en ZIC                      -       -         -       -    569.9  100.0         -       -       -       -        -       -      569.9
J. FormaIon                               1,425.7   60.0    950.5   40.0          -                 -      -       -       -        -       -    2,376.2
K. FONCTIONNEMENT DU PROGRAMME
Secretariat Drecteur FIDE                295.7   16.5    188.9   10.5   1,257.5   70.2            -      -       -       -      49.2    2.7    1,791.2    1
Secretarl Geal - FNEC                        -       -         -       -    226.3  100.0          -      -       -       -        -       -      226.3    "
DlrectionGenerale-ANDE                   264.3   46.9    165.3   29.3        68.9   12.2          -      --                    65.3   11.6       563.9    <
SerAce SuM Evalution                     307.9   55.3    196.6   35.3           -       -            -           -       -      51.9    9.3      556.5    I
Subtotal ONCTIONNEMENT DU PROGRAM          867.9   27.7    550.9   17.6   1,552.7   49.5            -      -       -       -     166.4    5.3    3,137.9
L. Fonds Preparation Programme             750.0   84.3          -      -     140.0   15.7         -       -       -       -        -       -      890.0
Total Disbursemnent                       16,634.1    51.3   4,917.3   15.2   3,752.1    11.6   5,099.7   15.7  426.2    1.3   1,617.6    5.0   32,447.0
C(D
co



LIVESTOCK DEV. & RANGELAND MGMT. PROGRAM
Proqect Components by Year - Base Costs
(US$ 00)
Base Cost
1995     1996      1997      1998     1999      Total
A. Gestlon des Parcours                      2,509.3   1,643.1   1,668.9   1,640.2    282.0    7,743.4
B. Sante Animals                             1,100.4    627.4    268.1    925.7    268.1    3,189.7
C. Anbnation Mutuallste                      1,111.0    529.6    494.5    754.0    333.7    3,222.9
D. GestJon Credit Mutuel                       305.8    250.9    274.3    338.1    217.3    1,386.4
E. Reconstiution Troupeaux                     213.7    299.1     341.9    427.3    498.5    1,780.5
F. Vulgarisation                               315.7    165.0     175.0    326.1    175.0    1,156.8
G. Etudes Action                                78.6     57.0      56.1      73.7     56.1      321.7
H. Trypanotoeant                               176.5     55.0      55.0      95.0     55.0      436.4
1. Action Zootechnique en ZIC                  135.2     67.9      83.3    119.8      67.9      474.0
J. Formation                                   345.1    395.0    384.1    391.8    381.4    1,897.4
K. FONCTIONNEMENT DU PROGRAMME
Secretariat Directeur FIDE                   368.1    269.1     267.4    321.0    253.6    1,479.2
Secretar General - FNEC                       57.4     40.1      40.1      40.1     15.4      193.3
Direction General - ANDE                     159.8     50.4      50.4    138.6      50.4      449.7
Service SuM Evaluation                       152.4     49.1      64.6      90.8     64.6      421.6
Subtotal ONCTIONNEMENT DU PROGRAMME            737.7    408.8    422.5    590.6    384.1    2,543.7                                                          o
L. Fonds Preparation Programme                 890.0        -                  -         -      890.0
Total BASEUNE COSTS                           7,918.9   4,498.9   4,223.7   5,682.3   2,719.1   25,042.9
Physical Cotigencies                         847.8    581.1     544.5    685.1    330.9    2,989.4
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                    456.2    604.5    721.8    898.2    690.0    3,370.7
Foreign                                  130.2    135.0    188.0    392.0    198.8    1,044.0
Subtotal Inflation                         586.5    739.5    909.7   1,290.2    888.8    4,414.6
Devakuation
Subtotal Price ContngencIes                  586.5    739.5    909.7   1,290.2    888.8    4,414.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                           9,353.2   5,819.4   5,677.9   7,657.6   3,938.8   32,447.0
Taxes                                           -         -         -                  -          -
Foreign Exhange                            6,147.3   2,905.0   2,731.7   4,325.1   1,775.9   17,884.9                                                        (D
co
00



- 99 -
Annex no, 9
page 1 of 4
ANNEXE 9
REPUBLIOUE CENTRAFRICAINE
PROGRAMME DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ELEVAGE ET DE GESTION DES PARCOURS
EVALUATION DE L'IMPACT SUR L'ENVIRONNEMENT
Mesures de Mitigations Proposees
1.    Afin d'eviter les calamites environnementales (cf: Sahel) et la desertification, la RCA a une
chance unique d'elaborer et d'executer des strategies appropriees pour proteger, I long terme, son
environnement tout en accroissant sa production agricole. A cet effet, le pays doit instituer et renforcer,
avec l'accord et la participation active de tous les groupes sociaux, une legislation en vue de contrOler
l'exploitation des ressources naturelles. Les changements institutionnels en vue de la protection de
l'environnement devraient commencer avec la reorganisation des institutions chargees de la gestion des
ressources naturelles, sous l'egide d'un seul ministere.  Ceci permettrait une coordination et une
cooperation plus etroite entre les diverses directions (par exemple I'elevage, l'agriculture, la foret, la
faune, les ressources hydrauliques, 1'environnement et le genie rural).
2.     Le secteur de I'elevage represente 14% du PNB de la RCA, et n'a pas encore atteint le potentiel
de sa participation a l'dconomie nationale. Pour qu'il atteigne ce potentiel, il serait imperatif de renforcer
les volets institutionnels suivants: (a) l'elaboration d'un code rural dont les sources de financement sont
a rechercher ; (b) le renforcement de la creation des groupements d'interet agro-pastoral (GIAP) ; (c) la
creation, au niveau des villages, des zones d'elevage et d'agriculture; (d) la creation ou l'amelioration
des couloirs de passage existants pour les eleveurs nomades qui ne sont pas associes aux ZAGROP; (e)
le renforcement des autorites traditionnelles au niveau des villages et groupements pour la planification
et l'execution d'un systeme de controle contre la culture itinerante; (f) la sensibilisation de la societe sur
les questions de protection de l'environnement, par le renforcement des programmes de la radio rurale;
(g) le renforcement des capacites de gestion des associations relevant du domaine de l'elevage telles que
la FNEC, I'ACCB et l'ANBC ; (h) I'education, au niveau primaire, des principes de protection de
l'environnement par la mise en place d'une direction chargee de l'education des enfants des eleveurs;
et (i) la cr6ation d'une filiere de commercialisation des produits d'elevage tels que le fromage artisanal
et le lait. Deux strategies a (1) court terme et (2) long terme doivent etre mises en place dans les
differents systrmes et zones de production.
3.     Dans le court terme, des actions seront menees dans le Nord du pays oti se trouve la zone
soudano-sahelienne a faible pluviometrie, de telle sorte que les techniques d'agroforesterie, de controle
de l'erosion et de culture fourragere puissent etre int6grees dans un plan global de gestion des ressources
de parcours.
4.     Dans la zone soudano-guineenne, I'herbe du Laos - Chromolaena odorata - est considdr6e par
les eleveurs commne une espece indesirable parce qu'elle envahit les surfaces pAturables et empeche la
repousse des especes appetables. Cependant, les agriculteurs la considerent comme une plante benefique
du fait qu'elle ameliore la structure et la fertilite du sol et par consequent augmente le rendement meme
sur les sites degrades. Par consdquent, toute strategie de controle de cette plante doit tenir compte des
faits ci-dessus indiques et donc etre executee avec la participation effective des eleveurs et des
agriculteurs.



- 100 -
Annex no, 9
page 2 of 4
5.     Le phenomene de reforestation dans les zones soudano-guineenne et soudano-oubanguienne, qui
est generalement attribue a l'elevage, doit faire l'objet de recherches approfondies. En attendant, ce
phenomene doit etre considere comme un effet positif de l'elevage sur l'environnement. En outre, on peut
admettre qu'une certaine stabilite pedologique existe dans les deux zones sus-citees, dans la mesure obi
la pluviometrie n'a pas sensiblement varie de 1931 a 1981, excepte en 1973 et 1983. Des recherches
appliquees doivent donc etre entreprises avec la collaboration et la participation des producteurs.
Mesures relatives a la gestion des narcours
6.     Pour attenuer les effets negatifs que pourrait induire la nouvelle strategie de gestion des parcours,
il y a lieu: (a) d'elaborer un plan d'amenagement des ZAGROP, en accord avec les utilisateurs, au
moyen d'un support cartographique qui fournirait des informations sur l'occupation actuelle et future des
sols, la valeur et la capacite de charge actuelle des divers types de paturages, les potentialites en
ressources hydrauliques et les amenagements necessaires, et les emplacements des infrastructures; (b)
de donner I chaque collectivite la responsabilite officielle et les moyens de faire respecter les reglements
d'attribution et d'usage des terroirs contenus dans les cahiers de charges des ZAGROP ; (c) d'organiser
de vastes campagnes d'information par des reunions locales animees par la Direction de l'animation
mutualiste (DAM), la radio et d'autres supports audio-visuels a identifier, afin de sensibiliser les masses
rurales aux problemes d'amenagement du terroir et de protection de l'environnement; il est egalement
attendu de la sensibilisation qu'elle dissuade les eleveurs hors ZAGROP d'y penetrer et d'en perturber
les plans d'amenagement; (d) d'initier des etudes sur les ecosystemes agrostologiques des futures sites
des ZAGROP en vue de determiner les especes botaniques presentes, la capacite de charge des sites, et
a terme, la mise en place d'un herbier national par suite de l'inventaire des especes vegetales du pays;
(e) d'etablir au prealable une typologie precise des sites obi seront construits des points d'eau afin de
mettre en evidence 1'ensemble des problemes susceptibles d'apparattre et leurs solutions; (f) de renforcer
les interventions du service de vulgarisation aupres des eleveurs hors ZAGROP aux fins de les conseiller
sur l'utilisation de l'espace pastoral et de la protection de l'environnement ; (g) de former les cadres a
la gestion des feux de brousse et d'accroltre la sensibilisation dans ce domaine ; (h) de financer dans
chaque ZAGROP un programme minimum de lutte agronomique contre l'herbe du Laos au moyen d'une
sensibilisation des agriculteurs sur l'interet de cultiver sur un sol occupe par cette herbe ; la lutte sera
mecanique et chimique sur les abords des pistes d'acces des ZAGROP.
Mesures relatives aux reforrnes institutionnelles
7.     L'attenuation des risques que pourraient occasionner les reformes institutionnelles sur la gestion
des ressources naturelles et la protection de l'environnement dans les zones d'elevage repose, pour
l'essentiel, sur la sensibilisation de la population a tous les niveaux - depuis les collectivites villageoises
jusqu'aux pouvoirs publics - et la mise en place de programmes compensatoires significatifs pour les
zones et les populations non pastorales.
Mesures relatives au credit mutuel
8.     Afin de minimiser les risques lids au rejet des activites agricoles et aux migrations que pourrait
susciter la reconstitution du cheptel des eleveurs aujourd'hui sedentarises par la suite de
l'appauvrissement, I'allocation du credit doit etre precedee d'une evaluation approfondie des risques,
tandis que des garanties doivent etre recherchees par rapport a la poursuite des activites agricoles et la
sedentarisation.



- 101 -
Annex no. 9
page 3 of 4
Strat6gie et recommandations
9.     Des strategies d'action devraient etre e1abor6es et ex6cutees a trois niveaux: (a) au niveau
institutionnel, (b) au niveau du leadership local ; et (c) au niveau des communautes de base.
10.    Au niveau institutionnel
- Assurer le suivi des impacts environnementaux du programme au sein du MAE, eventuellement par le
biais d'un consultant local.
- Adopter des regles juridiques sur la propriete fonciere et la gestion de la terre qui completeraient et
actualiseraient la legislation fonciere en vigueur ; le nouveau regime foncier qui serait integre a un Code
Rural dont les conditions d'elaboration restent a determiner, devrait tout au moins: (a) faciliter a la fois
l'acquisition des titres fonciers et le libre acces a la terre ; (b) soumettre l'attribution des titres fonciers
a la prise en compte de criteres relatifs au nombre d'habitants, a la superficie disponible, aux perspectives
de croissance economique et demographique, a la strategie de gestion des ressources naturelles et aux
perspectives en matiere d'amenagement du territoire; (c) renforcer les droits coutumiers des usagers de
la terre; et (d) faire obstacle a l'acquisition de trop grandes possessions foncieres par les plus riches, afin
d'eviter la latifundisation et la proletarisation des moins nantis.
- Simplifier les procedures de creation des ZAGROP en ramenant le centre de decision au niveau
ministeriel, tout en renforcant la coordination et la concertation entre les Ministeres concernes (MAE,
MEFCPT/CE, MTPAT...).
- Orienter les activites d'elevage vers (a) une gestion rationnelle des elevages extensifs notamment dans
le domaine de la preservation des ressources naturelles, et parallelement ; et (b) une certaine forme
d'intensification de l'elevage, en favorisant notamment l'association agriculture-elevage.
- Accelerer le processus d'etablissement d'un "passeport du betail" pour les pays de l'UDEAC ; l'usage
d'un tel passeport au niveau interne parait tres souhaitable pour controler les mouvements du betail et
combattre les phenomenes d'envahissement.
- Structurer les collectivites territoriales afin de permettre un meilleur controle des eleveurs et une
meilleure gestion des terres.
- Renforcer la FNEC pour prendre en compte et integrer de maniere efficace toutes les composantes de
la communaute pastorale (6leveurs, agro-e1eveurs, producteurs de petit b6tail).
- Renforcer la structure d'encadrement (par un personnel plus nombreux et l'appui logistique requis) pour
la mise en oeuvre des activites de sensibilisation Iiees a la gestion des ressources naturelles et la protection
de l'environnement.
- Mettre un accent particulier sur la sensibilisation des Pouvoirs Publics et de l'ensemble de la population
sur la logique qui preside a la creation des ZAGROP ; ce travail de sensibilisation ne devrait pas s'arreter
avec la fin du projet, des risques d'essoufflement, d'indifference ou d'hostilite, voire de remise en cause
n'6tant pas totalement exclus.



- 102 -
Annex no, 9
page 4 of 4
11.    Au niveau du leadership local
- Sensibiliser le leadership local (c'est-a-dire tous les centres de decision en matiere de gestion des
parcours -GIP, GIAP, Ardos, etc.) sur les problemes de protection de 1'environnement.
- Impliquer les dirigeants locaux dans toutes les actions initiees au niveau de la base et liees a la
protection et a la gestion des ressources naturelles.
- Sensibiliser le leadership local sur la delimitation des zones entre les activites pastorales et agricoles.
12.    Au niveau des communautes de base
- Promouvoir l'integration des groupes agricoles et pastoraux, en particulier par la promotion des
Groupements d'interets agro-pastoraux (GIAP).
- Orienter certaines activites des GIP et FELGIP vers des objectifs sociaux (construction et mise en
service de cases de sante, d'ecoles, hydraulique villageoise,etc.) au profit de la population pastorale.
- Programmer et realiser des sessions de formation des responsables et des membres des GIP et GLAP.
Ces programmes, congus sous forme de seminaires ou de "journees d'etude" devront porter aussi bien
sur la definition des roles des membres et des organes statutaires que sur des th6mes relatifs k la gestion
des groupements, a la prise de parole en public, a la protection de 1'environnement, etc....
- Informer et sensibiliser les eleveurs sur la gestion des ressources naturelles et la protection de
1 'environnement.
- Informer et sensibiliser les eleveurs sur leurs droits et obligations vis-a-vis des possessions foncieres;
- Limiter les migrations anarchiques vers la future zone du PDRE et creer une zone tampon entre 1'espace
pastoral et l'espace habite par la faune sauvage.



NlGEa  I   s1  s  9                                 ,<.   ,/               2            ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
_ _,  _ t ,      ~C .                                                          i\'NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Ng 1:  Et Rt Ix_  A                                             a                                                        ,PROJECT IMPLEMENTAIO   ARE
| A c A ,. I R ^0 *4 k 6 Z A_ ~~~~~~ k k H 4 , ~~~, f -  WLOCTION OFKAGROPS 
'>'^d E., 1_n'4 :t/g .<--_ gh- \ X X %e ,, r: L ,_ _., w., ..........MANGEMENT A.E
_ _ _~  (1                                                                                                            Z NO     NDo Wo S   D AF. E..............  >    R &  > O   AC -NwsO E   14W   c r a l
*-~ ~ ~~ ~~~L  / ,ol VcRE CINGSW DC 27 -0|;}                                       ooeo      J<                9     Io>  ~N,O^ k         &I
CAMEROON       \2/CNO ,                                       o     o     5     0    20     30X-^nFc   *~C7 t
.   1,09/               / ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 00otg~  -       5         200      2-'TE onIFTERogl/odNAIrrio,ooS



