Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2662 CA
Project Agreement
(Livestock Development and Rangeland Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FEDERATION NATIONALE DES ELEVEURS CENTRAFRICAINS
Dated January 13, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2662 CA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and FEDERATION NATIONALE DES ELEVEURS CENTRAFRICAINS (FNEC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Central African Republic (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
eleven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,500,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that FNEC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Fonds Interprofessionnel de Developpement de l'Elevage (FIDE), part of 
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to FNEC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement;
WHEREAS (C) FNEC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FNEC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A.8, B.4 and C.3 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts A.8, B.4 and C.3 of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A.8, B.4 and C.3 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. FNEC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A.8, B.4 and 
C.3 of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) FNEC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A.8, B.4 and C.3 of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
FNEC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A.8, B.4 and C.3 of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
FNEC of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. FNEC shall promptly submit its annual work programs and budgets to 
the Comite Interprofessionnel de Coordination (CIC) for its approval.
Section 2.06. FNEC shall: (a) carry out, no later than December 31, 1997, 
jointly with the Borrower and the Association, a mid-term review of the Project which 
shall cover, in particular, the issues listed in Section 3.12 of the Development 
Credit Agreement;
(b)
thereafter carry out such corrective action as the Borrower and the 
Association shall have determined in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to 
the Association; and
(c)
in order to facilitate this review, prepare and submit to the 
Association, not later than four weeks before the scheduled date of this review, a 
report of activities on Parts A.8, B.4 and C.3 of the Project of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FNEC
Section 3.01. FNEC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section 3.02. FNEC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and financial practices.
Section 3.03. FNEC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate insurance practice.
Section 3.04. FNEC shall consult the Borrower and the Association prior to any 
modification of its statutes. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) FNEC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
FNEC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, FNEC shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audit 
referred to in 
paragraph (b) (i) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
FNEC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify FNEC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall have been delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, 
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be 
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address 
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For FNEC:
Federation Nationale des Eleveurs
   Centrafricains
B.P. 588, BANGUI
Republique Centrafricaine
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FNEC may be 
taken or executed by the  President of FNEC or such other person or persons as FNEC 
shall designate in writing, and FNEC shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
FEDERATION NATIONALE DES ELEVEURS CENTRAFRICAINS
By /s/ Henri Koba
Authorized Representative
