CREDIT NUMBER 2662 CA
Development Credit Agreement
(Livestock Development and Rangeland Management Project)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  ,M1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2662 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        GA   AA^    \        , 1995, between
CENTRAL   AFRICAN  REPUBLIC  (the   Borrower)  and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Association has received a letter, dated July 26,
1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower's
livestock  sector  (the Program) and    declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)   Parts A.8, B.4 and C.3 of the Project will be carried
out by the F6dration Nationale des Eleveurs Centrafricains (FNEC)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to FNEC part of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European Union
through the European Development Fund (EDF), the French Republic
through the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), and the
International Fund for Agriculture and Development (IFAD) loans and
grants in a total amount equivalent to approximately thirteen
million seven hundred seventy thousand dollars to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the
respective loan and grant agreements (the Financing Agreements) to
be entered into between the Borrower and EDF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Coaditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General *Conditions   Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated


﻿- 2 -
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following' additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and FNEC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such terms includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be   entered   into   between   the  Borrower   and   the   Fonds
Interprofessionnel de D6veloppement de l'Eleva-e pursuant to Section
3.08 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement;
(c)   "ACDA" means Agence Centraficaine de D&veloppement de
1'Agriculture, an agency of the Borrower responsible for providing
agricultural extension services;
(d)   "AEA" means herders and farmers organizations, operating
in accordance with statutes approved by the Minister of Agriculture
and Livestock;
(e)   "ANDE" means Aence Nationale de D6velopement de
1'Elevage, an agency of the Borrower responsible for implementing
livestock regulations and providing livestock extension services;
(f)   "Franc CPA" means the currency of the Borrower;
(g)   "CIC"  means   the   Comit6   Interprofessionnel   de
Coordination, managing unit of the Fonds Interprofessionnel de
D6veloppement de 1'Elevage;
(h)   "FIDE"  means   the   Fonds   Interprofessionnel   de
D6veloppement de 1'Elevage established under the laws of the
Borrower;
(i)   "FNEC" means the Federation Nationale des Eleveurs
Centrafricains, an association of Central African livestock


﻿-3-
producers established under the laws of the Borrower and operated
pursuant to its bylaws dated August 4, 1994;
(j)   "MAE" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
Agriculture and Livestock;
(k)   "Passing on the Gift" means a system assisting, through
partial financing of a nucleus of breeding animals, herders meeting
predetermined criteria and undertaking to pass on to other
qualifying herders an equivalent number of animals, out of the
offspring of the initially acquired animals;
(1)   "Project  Preparation   Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to letters, dated Februar- 24 and March 13, 1992, and
September 22 and September 29, 1993, respectively between the
Borrower and the Association;
(m)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(n)   "ZAGROP" means "Zone d'Action Agro-pastorale", i.e. a
geographic zone delineated pursuant to Ordonnance No. 86/057 of
September 15, 1986 of the Borrower and subjected to special
occupancy rules designed to promote a sustainable management of
natural resources in the Borrower's territory.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven
million    five   hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 11,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿-4-
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account in commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2005, and ending September 1, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2014, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may reviLe such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its comitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3,
A.4, A.5, A.6, A.7, B.1, B.2, B.3, B.5, B.6, B.7, C.1 and C.2 of the
Project, through MAE, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, animal
health, animal husbandry and environmental practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
FNEC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of FNEC therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable FNEC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan;. and


﻿- 7 -
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) (i) establish the mutual
savings and loan scheme referred to under Part A.4 of the Project by
December 31, 1995; and (ii) ensure that the said scheme is managed
by a competent and experienced entity under contractual arrangements
(including lending terms and conditions) satisfactory to the
Association; and
(b)   develop the herd rebuilding scheme referred to under
Part A.5 of the Project and implement the said scheme in accordance
with practical arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)   (i) carry out the study referred to under Part A.6 (a)
of the Project; (ii) by December 31, 1995, submit the results and
recommendations of the said study to the Association for its review
and comments; and (iii) promptly implement the recommendations of
the said study as they shall have been agreed upon with the
Association;
(b)   (i) carry out the study referred to under Part A.7 (a)
of the Project; (ii) by December 31, 1996, submit the recom-
mendations and results of the said study to the Association for its
review and comments; and (iii) promptly implement the recom-
mendations of the said study as they shall have been agreed upon
with the Association; and
(c)   (i) carry out the study referred to under Part A.7 (b)
of the Project; and (ii) by June 30, 1996 submit the results of such
study to the Association for its review and comments.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) take all measures
required on its part to promote the establishment of AEA in villages
selected in agreement with the Association; (b) cause ACDA to second
three foodcrop extension specialists to ANDE to enable it to deliver
appropriate and relevant extension services to agro-pastoralists
under the Project; and (c) develop and thereafter maintain the
livestock sector monitoring and evaluation system referred to under
Part A.6 (c) of the Project.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) formulate an annual
training program and an annual ZAGROP development action plan for
each year during the Project implementation period and by October 31
of each year, submit the same to the Association for its review and
comments; and (b) by April 30 of each year, prepare and submit to
the Association a report detailing how the training program and the
ZAGROP development action plan were executed during the preceding
year (including the results achieved, the difficulties encountered
in the execution of the said program if any, and the measures taken
to resolve any such difficulties).
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Credit available to FIDE under a Subsidiary Financing Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and FIDE, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
including, inter alia, the maintenance of separate accounting system
to record and justify the use of all funds received by FIDE under
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof,
nor take or permit to be taken any action which may prevent or
interfere with FIDE's performance of its obligations under the
Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that FNEC shall
consult with the Borrower and the Association prior to amending its
statutes.
Section 3.10. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively), in respect of Parts
A.8, B.4 and C.3 of the Project shall be carried out by FNEC
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall,not later than two years
after the Effectiveness Date: (a) draft new model statutes and
regulations for the ZAGROP; and (b) submit amendments to the
legislation governing ZAGROP to Parliament defining the new


﻿- 9 -
objectives of ZAGROP and procedures to be followed for their
creation.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1997
carry out jointly with the Association and FNEC a midterm review of
the Project which shall cover inter alia: (i) the identification of
Project implementation bottlenecks; (ii) the design of remedial
measures; (iii) the operation of the Project's various executing
agencies; (iv) the implementation of the herd rebuilding program;
(v) the establishment of the mutual savings and loan scheme; (vi)
the   implementation   of  the   program   relating  to   ZAGROP's
establishment; and (vii, the appropriateness to transfer the
responsibility for extension services from ANDE to FNEC;
(b)   thereafter, on   the basis of this review, and in
accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the Association,
carry out such corrective actions as the Borrower and the
Association shall determine; and
(c)   in order to facilitate this review, prepare and submit
to the Association, not later than four weeks before the scheduled
date of this review, a report of Project activities of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause CIC to: (i) transmit to
the Association for its review the work programs and budgets
proposals submitted by ANDE and FNEC; (ii) promptly review and
approve the said proposals; and (iii) make available, from the bank
account open on behalf of FIDE, promptly and on a quarterly basis,
the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the
approved work programs.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿- 10 -
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,   as  soon   as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other    documents)   evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that such   records and accounts    are
included in the annual audit referred to in


﻿- 11 -
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   FNEC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that FNEC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)   FNEC's bylaws dated August 4, 1994 or FIDE's bylaws,
dated October 28, 1994 shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval of the
Association;
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of FNEC or FIDE or for the suspension of their operations;
(e)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and
(f)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms thereof; or


﻿- 12 -
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,   cancellation,   termination    or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in Section 5.01 (f) (i) of this
Agreement, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (f) (ii) of this
Agreement, and the events specified in Section 5.01 (c) and (d) of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
IFAD Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)   FIDE's Director has been appointed;


﻿- 13 -
(c)   the Association has received satisfactory evidence of
the deposit in FIDE's bank account of the balance available in the
Fonds de D6veloppement de l'Elevage's account; and
(d)   the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and FIDE.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
executed by FNEC, and is legally binding upon FNEC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or executed by the Borrower and FIDE and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and FIDE in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance, Planning
and International Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Planning and
International Cooperation
P.O.B. 696
Bangui
Central African Republic


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                Telex:
MINIPLAN                  5208 RC
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ByIc     1Ael,      VdA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By        dW   O C    V'V'      a
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Eauivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works               3,940,000         100%
(2) Equipment and
vehicles:
(a) under Parts A.1          600,000        60%
through A.4, B.1,
B.2, B.6, and B.7
of the Project
(b) under Part B.4           370,000        60%
of the Project
(3) Consultants'                 210,000        60%
services
(4) Training                     900,000        60%
(5) Operating costs:
(a) under Parts A.1        2,300000         50%
through A.4, A.6,
A.7, B.1, B.2,
B.3, B.6, B.7,
C.1 and C.2 of
the Project
(b) under Part B.4           610,000        50%
.of the Project


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Herds rebuilding            760,000        50%
under Part A.5 of
the Project
(7) Refunding of                490,000        Amounts due pur-
Project                                    suant to Section
Preparation                                2.02 (c) of this
Advance                                    Agreement
(8) Unallocated               1,320,000
TOTAL                11,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(c)   the term "operating costs" means expenses incurred under
the Project for items such as salaries for incremental staff
contracted for the purposes of the Project, utilities, supplies,
fuel, gasoline, vehicles and equipment maintenance and repair costs,
travel costs and subsistence allowances for travel related to the
Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) expenditures


﻿- 18 -
incurred in respect of Category (6), unless the Association has
received evidence satisfactory to it that the herd rebuilding scheme
referred under Part A.5 of the Project has been developed in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of this
Agreement; and (c) expenditures incurred in respect of Category (3),
unless the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a firm has been selected for the creation of the monitoring and
evaluation system referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditures for
such expenditures for goods and services under contracts not
exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the
productivity of the Borrower's livestock sector and further its
integration into the Borrower's economy; (b) improve the standards
of living of the herders population through increased diver-
sification of their sources of income; (c) strengthen the livestock
sector's professional organizations, through the democratization of
their operations and the decentralization of the decision making
process; and (d) promote adequate and sustainable management of
natural resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthaning of the Livestock Sector Institutional
Framework
1.    (a)   Establishment and management of FIDE as an inter
professional organization to coordinate the financing of sectoral
field  activities   to  be  carried   out  by   livestock  sector
organizations.
(b)   Formulation and implementation of procedures to enable
FIDE to mobilize and promptly collect all of its revenues and to
allocate them as required to sustain the development of the
livestock sector.
2.    Improvement of the operational capacity of ANDE and FIDE
through the acquisition of equipment, vehicles and the financing of
operating costs.
3.    Promotion of AEA in selected localities and provision of
services necessary to improve the productivity and sustainability of
the livestock sector.
4.    Establishment and management of a mutual savings and loan
scheme to provide credit to herders and agropastoralists.
5.    Design and implementation of a herd rebuilding scheme,
designed to help herders, whose herding stock has been depleted, but


﻿- 20 -
are willing to remain herders, based on the "passing on the gift"
system or any other system yielding the same results.
6.    (a)   Carrying out of a baseline survey of the livestock
sector including a demographic analysis of the herd and a socio-
economic analysis of the herders community, particularly herders
experiencing herds attrition; (b) selection and monitoring of a
representative sample of herders and herds; and (c) establishment of
a monitoring and evaluation system for the Project's activities.
7.    Carrying out of: (a) a legal and sociological study aimed at
streamlining the current procedure for establishing new ZAGROP and
providing land tenure security to herders and farmers established in
the said zones; and (b) a study to identify and assess traditional
subsistence and commercial hunting patterns with a view to improving
the sustainability of traditional building particularly in the
wildlife management zone.
.8.   Strengthening FNEC's grassroots representative character and
improvement of its capacity to carry out efficiently all of its
operations.
Part B:     Improvement of the Productivity of the Livestock Sector
1.    Creation of about 16 additional ZAGROP in the western, central
and eastern regions.
2.    Carrying out of the following activities in all ZAGROP
developed under the Project:
(a)   an assessment of water needs and development of water
supplies for human and livestock use;
(b)   installation of storage, processing and marketing
facilities required for livestock products;
(c)   acquisition of satellite images required for land use
mapping; land rights security and an adequate use of savannah lands;
(d)   acquisition of necessary equipment, vehicles, bicycles,
motorbicycles, materials and supplies;
(e)   rehabilitation and maintenance of about 400 km of new
primary tracks to secure an adequate access to all ZAGROPs developed
under the Project; and


﻿- 21 -
(f)   construction  and maintenance of    about 800 km    of
secondary tracks and construction of main firebreak structures.
3.    Strengthening of animal health and husbandry services inter
alia, by: (a) training ANDE's staff to implement adequately all
animal health regulations; (b) equipping five new border control
posts to strengthen the screening of animal diseases and prevent
their spread into the Borrower's territory and to increase the
mobility of borders control inspectors.
4.    Provision, through, inter alia, the acquisition of vehicles
and equipment, of grassroots development services aimed primarily
at the men and women members of the grassroots and federal
organizations of the livestock sector for the purpose of enabling
them to usefully participate in and manage these organizations.
5.    Carrying out of field experimentation focused on themes
relating to animal production and animal health.
6.    Provision, through, inter alia, the acquisition of vehicles
and equipment, of extension services aimed primarily at women, youth
and impoverished herders to familiarize them with appropriate
technology for sedentary livestock husbandry, crop farming, draft
cultivation, and processing of animal products.
7.    Promotion among the population established within the wildlife
management area of livestock development activities including in
particular the raising of small ruminants, poultry and bee keeping.
Part C:     Training
Formulation and execution: (1) of a training program including
in-country seminars, study tours and long term study abroad, as
appropriate to increase the expertise and capacity of the relevant
staff of all agencies involved in the execution of the Project; (2)
of a training program geared at herders' sons; and (3) functional
literacy program geared at herders associations members and in
particular women and youth.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works and contracts for items or groups of
items estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Contracts for vehicles up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$950,000 shall be grouped and procured through the United Nations
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office.
3.    Contracts for items estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $50,000 per contract may be procured by prudent shopping.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 23 -
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants' Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each; or (b) conracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each. However, said exception
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $59,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in CFA
Francs equivalent to 500,000 dollars to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    (a)   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
(b)   Each payment (including a payment under a letter of
credit) for an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less
than the equivalent of $20,000 shall be made exclusively out of the
Special Account. The Bank may from time to time, by notice to the
Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the preceding
sentence.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts determined
by the Association to be required to pay for eligible expenditures
during the four months following the date of each such request,
which amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the


﻿- 25 -
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Association shall have determined to be so required.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as .the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;


﻿- 26 -
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount  of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the


﻿- 27 -
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


