Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17459-AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
FOR A
MODEL COURT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 4, 1998
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Chile Uruguay Country Managing Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1998)
Currency Unit = Argentina Peso (Arg$)
Arg$1 = US$1
US$1 =$lArg
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS,
ADR       =    Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanisms
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
Cabinet-  =    Chief of Cabinet Office
DGI       =    Tax Administrati6n Office
IDB       =    Inter American Development Bank
IDF       =    Institutional Development Fund
NGO       =    Non-Governmental Organization
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director: Guillermo Perry
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Maria Dakolias



ARGENTINA
Model Court Development Project
CONTENTS
A.  Project Development Objective
1.   Project development objective and key performance indicators
B.  Strategic Context
1.   Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2.   Main sector issues and Government strategy
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C.  Project Description Summary
1.   Project components
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3.   Benefits and target population
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements
D.  Project Rationale
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3.   Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5.   Value added of Bank support in this project
E.  Summary Project Analyses
1.   Economic
2.   Financial
3.   Technical
4.  Institutional
5.   Social
6.   Environmental assessment
7.   Participatory approach
F.  Sustainability and Risks
1.   Sustainability
2.   Critical risks
3.   Possible controversial aspects



G.  Main Loan Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
L.   Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.  Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al. Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 7.  Documents in Project File
Annex 8.  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9.  Country at a Glance
MAP
IBRD 29348 Argentina



Argentina
Model Court Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Date: March 3, 1998                                Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Maria Dakolias
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander    Sector Manager/Director: Guillermo Perry
Project ID: 50713     Sector: Judicial             Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction and
Economic management
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes [X ] No
Project Financing Data               [X] Loan         [ ] Credit       Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$5 million
Proposed terms:                       [ ]    Multicurrency      I X l  Single Currency US Dollar
Grace period (years): 5          [ ]    Standard Variable   j    Fixed  [ X I LIBOR-based:
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$5m):
Source                              Local        Foreign        Total
Government                                                   1.0           .8            1.8
IBRD                                                          .5          4.5           5.0
1.5         5.3            6.8
Borrower: Republic of Argentina
Responsible agency: Supreme Court
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     1998       1999         2000       2001
Annual     0.3       1.8           2.0       0.9
Cumulative     0.3       2.1          4.1       5.0
Nature of underlying financing: US Dollar Single Currency Loan
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$) 5 million
Final maturity May 15, 2013
Amortization 5 years grace, 15 years maturity, level repayments of principal
profile
Project implementation period: three years Expected effectiveness date: 5/1998    Expected closing date: 11/2001
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A:    Project Development Objective
1.    Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex J):
The Project's objective is to identify, establish and evaluate conditions which would support the
realization of judicial administrative reform and eventually form part of an overall legal reform
program. This will be done by developing and implementing a model court program in twelve
Federal First Instance Courts with the possibility of five additional courts. The model court
project will address some of the systemic problems experienced by the judiciary--focusing on the
main problems, and experimenting with new methodologies, demonstrating that they can assist
in the reform, and providing motivation for further reform. Specifically, the model courts will
seek to separate the judicial from the administrative responsibilities of the judges and court
personnel thereby by freeing time for the judges for their primary duties, create teams of judicial
employees, decentralize functions and establish reliable statistics in order to track performance
and manage resource allocation. In order to learn from the model courts, the project will track
the improvements in efficiency, public and judicial support for the reforms, and public
confidence in the judicial process.
Performance Indicators: A. The number of cases pending will decrease by 15% every year
B. Clearance rate will increase by 20% every year'
C. Duration of a typical case,juicio executivo (from filing until the
decision stage and then from the decision until the enforcement
stage) will decrease
D. Increase of percentage of judgments written with information
technology as a proxy for the use of modern technology
E. Increase in trust in the judiciary and satisfaction by the public in
the service provided by the judiciary
F. Index of management performance based upon a self-audit (to
be developed)
B:    Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
The Model Court Project would support the Bank's assistance strategy for judicial reform.
CAS document number: CAS Progress Report No. R-98-36. Date of latest CAS discussion: March 17,
1998.
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Government Strategy:
Judicial reform is high on the current government's agenda as the Menem administration moves
into the second half of its term. A National Judicial Reform Program has been developed and
includes a broad spectrum of activities many of which were identified under an IDF-grant (see
below). The activities are divided into four categories: Delay reduction; human resources,
judicial efficiency and effectiveness, and access to justice. The complete program includes
IThe resolved cases is computed by considering the actual resolved/filed (R//F) rate as a percentage.



Page 3
reviewing the role of the lawyers, alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, small claims courts,
revision of the jurisdiction of various courts, legislative changes, oral proceedings in civil,
commercial and national labor cases, strengthening of the judicial administration, incentives for
judges, strengthening of the Ministry of Justice, improving the infornation systems for the
different institutions, case management systems, public registries, supporting the investigative
powers to the Public Ministry for criminal/corruption cases, improving methods of serving prison
times, judicial infrastructure, equipment and training.
This broad National Program includes many facets that are important for overall reform. While
the program is still in its early stages of implementation and more time is needed to develop all
of the aspects, a number of steps have already been taken. For example, oral hearings have been
introduced, thereby creating more openness in judicial proceedings. A Judicial Council was
created under the constitutional reform, and a recent corresponding law was passed by Congress.
A new law, mandating mediation for all civil cases in Federal Courts, has been implemented in
Buenos Aires with great success. In addition, the Government has made tax collection and anti-
corruption a high priority.
Reforms of the Supreme Court are a vital part of the judicial reform process. Among other
things, the Court has established a new administration office in the court with offices for
Information Systems, Infrastructure, Notifications, Finance, Human Resources, and
Management. These offices are headed by the General Administration Secretary which has
improved the information available and the ability to plan for future needs. The current budget
of the Judiciary representing 1.43% of the National Budget allows for the majority to be spent on
human resources (95% of the budget is allocated to salaries). There are currently 17,000
employees and 700 contracted employees.
National awareness of the need for judicial reform has been informed by a Judicial Sector
Review financed by an IDF Grant which was to develop a policy dialogue on reforms with the
government. The review focused on identifying the priority areas for reform which included:
court administration, legal education, judicial training, alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms, and access to justice. The Judicial Sector Review studied the Federal Judicial
System in depth and was undertaken by the Ministry of Justice with a group of national and
international consultants who worked closely with court-appointed personnel. The review's
final conclusions and main findings were discussed during a conference in December 1994. The
Judicial Reform Conference was organized to disseminate the conclusions and it was attended by
members of the legal community, which included representatives of the Supreme Court and
lower courts, Ministry of Justice, lawyers, academics and the public. The Conference concluded
that the areas identified in the Report were indeed the priority areas for reform.
The review highlighted that one of the main issues facing the sector is the total centralization of
court administration: the lower courts are not involved in developing administrative norms, a
lack of communication on administrative matters among trial courts and between the Supreme
Court and the trial courts. Each court receives the same staff regardless of any other factors. The
Federal Courts have a ratio of judges to personnel which is 1:32 and this approach results in the
misallocation of resources. The court system is adequately funded, though there are insufficient
funds for capital funding. The buildings whether rented or owned are not designed as



Page 4
courthouses and some have been closed because of danger of collapse. Case management is
driven more by adding personnel to the courts to address the problem of the increase in filing as
opposed to developing techniques to reduce delay. Personnel in the judiciary do not receive any
prior training before taking their positions and since there are no operational guidelines in the
courts new employees learn about their work through informal training. The study also
recommended improved dissemination of information and education programs for the public on
laws and the procedures of the courts.
The issues facing Argentina are not dissimilar to the situation faced in many other Latin
American countries which struggle to satisfy the demand for dispositions in civil jurisdictions.
In Argentina, the number of pending cases reached an important level in 1993 and the Federal
District's National Courts of First Instance are the most overburdened. A diagnostic of the
situation found that there are several factors which affect the procedural time to dispose of a
case: the number of case filings, case management, resources allocated for court personnel and
the complexity of the case all have an effect on the time to dispose of a case. It was also found
that an increase in budget resources was not proven to be a significant factor.
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The previous review and the government's national program form the basis for proceeding with
judicial reform in Argentina. However, the program is a very complex one, involving a number
of interested parties, including the Courts, the legal profession, productive enterprises, the
Ministry of Justice, Legislature and civil society. While the desired goal is clear, the solution is
not and there are many features of the program which need to be tried and tested before they can
be implemented more broadly.
In light of this, the government and the Bank have agreed to a phased strategy to address the
issues, build up experience on particular elements and sequence the implementation of particular
actions only when there are proven results demonstrating the reform's effectiveness. This phased
approach, while still retaining the comprehensive framework for the complete program, should
allow for the appropriate degree of learning and innovation that such a program needs.
After careful review of the literature on judicial reform, a number of strategic choices were made.
In designing the project, the first choice was to separate court administration from the program's
other aspects. This choice was based on the consideration that court administration is an
essential ingredient of the reform program and a preliminary pre-requisite for success of any
judicial reform program irrespective of its strategy and content. The second reason is that
regardless of any eventual change in the legal framework and other procedural aspects which
could evolve from the implementation of the National Judicial Reform program, improved
judicial administrative is an essential ingredient of the reform program. Improvements in case
management, information systems, personnel management are basic essentials for reform. Thus,
trying and testing these reforms are necessary, albeit not sufficient and have to be in place either
concurrently or in anticipation of broader legal and judicial reforms.
The second strategic choice was on the extent of the administrative reform program. Given the
generally weak administrative capacity of the court system, a small model court operation was
selected over a larger, more traditional operation. This strategy directed us towards a select



Page 5
number of courts which have demonstrated commitment to undertaking the reforms and which
demonstrate an array of court functions.   Thus, the model court will develop and refine
methodologies for improving the administration of justice within possibly seventeen Federal
Courts.
The proposed model court operation addresses key administrative issues at the court level. These
include designing different administrative techniques to improve the court system, analyzing the
procedures required, introducing management systems, training judges and personnel in these
areas, and dissemination and evaluation of model courts. Each model court will test and evaluate
different measures that can later be expanded over the entire system. The model court will be
designed for the administration of cases. In addition, the model court project will emphasize
decentralization and stakeholder participation by including progress and dissemination
workshops throughout project implementation.
In order to test these in different settings, courts were selected with different characteristics. The
ones initially selected are the Federal Courts in Mar del Plata and Resistencia as well as the new
Social Security Courts2 in Buenos Aires and up to five other possible court. These courts
represent three different types of Federal First Instance Courts: Mar del Plata is a
multijurisdictional court which receives civil, commercial and labor cases; Resistencia is also
multijurisdictional and receives civil, commercial, labor, and criminal cases; and the Social
Security Courts is a more specialized court which receives all kinds of tax and social security
cases. In addition, the Social Security Courts in Buenos Aires is less than a year old and is
therefore open to changes.
All these courts have very heavy caseloads and include a large number of tax cases which
provides a more efficient way to monitor progress in delay reduction using the tax authority's
(DGI) statistics. Also, improving the handling and disposition of tax cases will clearly have a
very positive effect on government revenues and reducing evasion. The caseloads in the courts
of Mar del Plata and Resistencia and the Social Security Courts include a significant proportion
of tax cases (ejecuciones fiscales). For this reason, the model court will pay particular attention
to the reduction of tax cases.
C:    Project Description Summary
1.    Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project is a model court operation and will have three main components as follows:
Court Management: The administration of the courts and the case management will be a
priority in the courts. This component will include the following subcomponents: Judicial
Administration and Case Backlog Reduction.
Judicial Administration: This will include a group of activities that will develop policies, the
strategy and the internal indicators for the project. These activities will be coordinated by the
2 The Social Security Court is made up of ten juzgados.



Page 6
Supreme Court, and the individual judges involved 'in the project. The subcomponent will also
include the organization of the courts. The judges spend much of their time on administrative
matters, thus curtailing their ability to concentrate on substantive judicial matters. As a first step,
the model courts will adopt a definition of what is administrative versus judicial. A new
organizational structure will be implemented in each model court, attempting to utilize the
existing personnel in the most efficient manner. In addition, the model court will evaluate the
number and profile of the personnel needed in each court. A diagnostic study will also be done
to review the organizational issues and factors related to efficiency and effectiveness.
Casebacklog Reduction: A program to reduce delay will be developed jointly by judges and
administrators. This will include a diagnosis and elimination of inactive cases according to the
laws and a diagnostic study of the possible causes of delay: case management practices, steps
from filing to disposition, case distribution among judges, control mechanisms, sanctions, system
of redistributing cases and, system of experts used in the cases. Model court s will be developed
to improve caseflow management. This will include developing court performance standards that
each court could use to evaluate their own progress. Since the proceedings are almost exclusively
in writing, records management is very important to the efficiency of the system (in active cases,
there can be a daily filing of paper or response from the judge which is added to the file).
Currently there are loose standards on maintaining records. Records management will be
included and will consist of: guidelines for the management of records, procedures for case
intake registers, registers of final decisions, development of standards for case storage, guidelines
for maintaining security system to control access to cases. Information Systems will be included
to complement these efforts: the project will implement case management techniques together
with information technology to enhance efficiency. In order to enhance the implementation of
this component, DGI will also make some necessary adjustments in the way its lawyers file and
follow tax cases.
Skills Development for Judges and Court Personnel: Education Policy: This component will
include the development of a training and education policy for the judiciary. Judges: The model
court project will also train judges in areas addressed by the project. A specific needs assessment
will be done for each model court in order to tailor the programs as needed. This would focus on
developing an understanding of leadership, the importance of delegation, and the management of
change. Court personnel will also be trained in the new administrative and case management
techniques, information technology, records management, the development of forms,
development of a budget, human resources, mnotivating personnel, collection and reporting of
information of cases. Although the training activities will be geared towards those participating
in the model courts they will be offered to members in the pertaining jurisdictions.
Dissemination and Evaluation: This component will include dissemination of the process of
development of the model courts to others in the judiciary as well as the progress and results of
the project. Judicial Information Centers: This component will also include establishing
information centers in the courts in order to better serve the public: providing information on the
court process, requirements, case status and receiving comments/suggestions and if possible
complaints about the process or about personnel. User Opinion Surveys: Surveys will be
conducted of the users in the model courts to also evaluate the success of providing better service
to the public. Model Court Dissemination: Seminars will be held and working groups will be



Page 7
formed to review the design of the model courts, the different stages of progress, and the results.
These forums will be for not only the judiciary but also the users, bar associations, business
associations and law schools. There will be periodic review of whether the model courts are
promoting better access to justice. In addition, instruments to disseminate information about the
different phases of the project and the evaluations will be developed for the judiciary as well as
the users. External Evaluation: In addition, the model courts will be externally evaluated at
different stages of the testing process as well as at the end of the project and these evaluations
will be discussed with the participants as well as other parties interested in the judiciary. This
evaluation will also include proposals for reforming the procedural codes associated with the
juicio ejecutivo (which is also the type of process used in many taxes cases) if needed.
Component             Category           Cost Incl.    % of      Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total   financing    Bank-
_________________  _  LiS$M)     _        (US$M)   financing
Court Management      Institution Building!          3.70    53.2        3.20       89.6
Other
Skills Development    Institution Building!          1.00    14.4        0.80       80.0
Other
Dissemination and     Institution Building/          1.40    20.1        0.50       35.7
Evaluation                  Other
General Project         Administration               0.85    12.2        0.50       58.8
Administration
Total           6.95     100         5.00       34.9
2.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Institutional reform is central to this operation. As seen in most Latin American Courts, one of
the first reforms needed is to separate the judicial from the administrative functions. This is
essential in order to give the judges more time for judicial decision- making. Although a larger
reform effort is needed in Argentina, the model court approach will allow further reform to be
successfully thought out and planned in parallel. The proposed project will develop each court's
ability to develop proposals for reform and develop the capacity of the courts to implement
reform.   This process will assist the courts to develop a new  organization structure,
decentralization process, and performance standards. The evaluation and working groups
established will assist the judiciary and specifically, the Appeals Courts (Camaras) in carrying
out their supervision responsibilities. A training policy will also be developed during the project
which is essential for the support of future institutional reforms. In addition, these model courts
will facilitate the development of future reforms by putting in place a change process
management in the judiciary. However, the project will not attempt to revise any laws since legal
reform will be dealt with under the national program.
3.    Benefits and target population:
The model court project focuses on only a small share of the judicial system represented by up to
seventeen Federal Courts. However, the proposed project would develop, test and evaluate
measures that could be replicated across the country, if successful. It will also provide the
benefit of a sound analysis of project alternatives by the judiciary, the executive, legal
associations and the users of the court for future judicial reform that could take place with
widespread support.



Page 8
The model court project would strengthen the capacity of the Judiciary to provide efficient and
effective dispute resolution. The model courts will yield reforms which could benefit all Federal
Courts. The model courts would provide significant benefit through the careful study and
evaluation of methodologies for the effective and efficient resolution of disputes nation-wide.
The model court studies and results should result in actions and programs which will be
transferable.
The beneficiaries of these reforms include the judiciary itself, the executive branch, and the
general public. It is expected that with improved court and case management and training that
the time it takes for cases to go through the system would decrease, percentage of cases disposed
as a proportion of the number of filings in each court would increase and the cost to process each
case would decrease. With these reforms it is also expected that the incentives for greater
efficiency and effectiveness would be increased.
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation will be done by the selected Courts themselves. The Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) in the Supreme Court will provide project specific support with a qualified
implementation team within the judiciary. This unit will be directed by a Project Manager with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank who will be appointed by the Supreme
Court through the Administrator of the Court. Due to the limited capacity in implementing
projects of the Supreme Court, a procurement agency may provide support to the PCU on
procurement issues. Policy guidance and oversight will be provided by an coordinating
commission which includes representatives from the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice, and
the Chief of Cabinet Office (hereinafter referred to as Cabinet). Monitoring and evaluation
arrangements: Monitoring and evaluation will be done by the PCU. Individual courts will also
monitor their progress and build on data that will be collected by the courts. The PCU will
prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on the progress of project implementation.
D:   Project Rationale
1.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A bottom up approach has been chosen for this project by starting from the first instance level
courts. A strategic choice has been made because the maximum value added would be in the
lower courts where there is the most case congestion. In addition, it was agreed that instead of a
larger operation a model court approach would be used to reduce the risk. As a result, a model
court approach was agreed on to focus on basic priority areas of case processing. Since the
judiciary has had little experience with implementing projects and since it was important to learn
what will and will not work, it was agreed that a model court approach would allow a learning
process for both issues.



Page 9
2.    Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                  Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Judicial Reform / Ministry of Justice    Planned for FY 99
Other development agencies
IDB                               A small project of
US$10.5 million for
strengthening of
National Treasury
Prosecutor's Office,
Public Prosecutor's
Office and Public
Defender's Office
with a focus on
administrative and
case management,
evaluation of
mediation program,
development of crime
prevention policies,
computerization of the
penitentiary system,
creation of the
Institute for the
Improvement of
Provincial Justice, and
consolidating all
current national
legislation. Approved
Dec. 1997.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3.    Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Judicial Reform: The Bank has relatively limited experience in the area of legal and judicial
reform. There have been, however, several legal and judicial reform initiatives in countries
including Venezuela, Bolivia, China, Ecuador, and the Russian Federation. The lessons learned
in the course of preparation of these projects have underscored the importance of ownership and
commitment at the highest level of government and of counterpart commitment.



Page 10
The preparation of the Bolivia project demonstrated the importance of consensus building within
the judiciary, whereas that of the Ecuador project showed the importance of consensus building
within the judicial and executive branches. Recent Bank experience generally suggests that the
following are pre-requisites for project success: (i) sound implementation arrangements that are
fully agreed to by all counterparts; (ii) establishment of a clear set of priorities among the various
reform objectives; and (iii) avoidance of over-ambitious and unattainable goals (legal and
judicial reform is a slow and long-term process). The present proposal accounts for these points
by: (i) focusing on a small model court program; (ii) establishing a highly-skilled Project
Coordination Unit with previous public sector reform experience; (iii) establishing a coordinating
commission to guide the reforms; and (iv) designing self-contained project components.
While the Bank recognizes the paramount importance of judicial independence it also recognizes
the need for coordination among the different branches of government in the process of judicial
reform. Such coordination should be established on the basis of procedures which do not
diminish or encroach upon the independence of the judiciary. In this project, there will be a
coordinating commission which will be composed of the Supreme Court, Ministry of Justice, and
the Cabinet in order to ensure consistency, accuracy and consensus in the reforms. In the Bank's
experience participation is an important element of the success of the reforms and will be
brought to bear through user surveys during the model court project.
General: A strong and well-prepared project management team must be organized as part of
project preparation so that the project can begin implementation at the time of effectiveness.
Standardization of project documents and training during the project preparation and evaluation
process facilitates the procurement of goods and services, and adequate financing of project
preparation improves the quality of project at the time of effectiveness.
Project performance can be greatly improved through adequate funding of project preparation,
and design, through adequate testing and refinement of concepts and methodologies to be used
in the implementation of the national program. Monitoring and evaluation systems are essential
management and planning tools. This system should be designed as part of the preparation of the
project and should be in place at the outset of the project.
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Supreme Court have approved the preparation of the model court project. Moreover, in
order to ensure ownership among the participants, the selected courts have voluntary indicated
their strong enthusiasm to be included. There has been close coordination among the Judiciary,
Ministry of Justice, and the Cabinet for the model court project as seen with the creation of the
coordinating commission as well as cooperating on the broader national program. In addition,
the Government's letter of intent to the IMF for the Extend Funding Facility includes as a
benchmark this model court project as well the establishment of the Judicial Council and
strengthening of the Public Defender's Office.
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project:
With the overall work of the Bank in public administration reform and the IDF-supported review
of the judiciary in Argentina, the Government considers that the Bank has a comparative
advantage to assist in this area. Currently, there is momentum in Argentina for making changes
in the judicial system. However, outside help is important to support these reforms. The Bank's



Page 1 1
participation is critical in initiating and supporting a complex modernization effort involving
wide-ranging organizational and procedural changes, institutional building, management skills
and tools, and administrative training.
E:    Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.    Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: See attached description [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
The project will test ways to be able to measure the cost-benefit of judicial reform. Preliminary
estimates indicate that improvements to the handling of tax cases has an extremely high rate of
return. Methods will be developed under the model court project to assess the returns of other
types of cases.
2.    Financial:
The budget revenues allocated to the judiciary in Argentina could be increased particularly, as it
regards to non-salary expenses. The model court project will test ways to do this. More
generally, the cost of modernizing the model courts is reasonable and could be easily replicated.
3.    Technical:
There are proven methods to improve court administration. Technologies for management and
data gathering have been evaluated to be viable and appropriate for creating model courts.
4.    Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The courts have never been involved in an externally financed
operation. Thus, their institutional capacity for implementing projects is untested and the model
court projects relies on the receptiveness of the selected courts. The first instance level courts are
highly motivated, have adequate knowledge of the problems and have the ability to manage the
project and the change process. Working groups will be developed to monitor and motivate the
rest of the judiciary in the reform process. The Supreme Court is considered to be the appropriate
executing agency via its PCU with specialized staff in the PCU and possibly a procurement
agency.
b. Project management: The PCU will be headed by a project manager who is acceptable
to the Bank. In order to ensure the success of the project it is preferable that this person has
comparative knowledge of judicial administration systems and previous experience with
international institutions. This will be important since the Supreme Court has limited institutional
capacity and experience in implementation of a projects.



Page 12
5.    Social:
There is a growing awareness in Argentina of the need for judicial reform. This project responds to such
need.
6.    Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category    [ ] A  [ ] B  [X] C
7.    Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The judiciary has been at the center of the preparation; The Ministry of Justice and
the Office of the Cabinet in the Presidency have contributed to the preparation process. The
participatory process will continue throughout the model court project by means of the
coordinating commission. Interested institutions will also participate in working groups with the
model courts.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Lawyers, business associations, and the users have been part of the process to date
through the follow up of the IDF review and this will continue in the seminar and workshops
planned throughout the project. Although the preparation of the model court project only
included the different agencies (Judiciary, Ministry of Justice, the Cabinet), there has been
widespread public debate on the need for reform. Press articles, speeches by Government
Officials, and seminars have been common. In addition, there will be continued promotion of
public participation through the use of the LIL and the dissemination and evaluation process.
F:    Sustainability and Risks
I     Sustainability:
Measures developed under this project will contribute to the sustainability of the judicial reform
process. It is expected that the results will be used in a follow up operation. The intent is to
build on the results and lessons learned to develop judicial processes that create a more efficient
and effective process of dispute resolution.



Page 13
2.    Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Annex I, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
possibility that the model courts do not  Moderate   Careful design of the
produce expected results.                            components and intensive
monitoring and measurement of
the outputs of the model courts
by qualified personnel combined
with careful selection of
qualified consultants and
implementation team for the
project. This should ensure that
the outputs of the model court
project meet the objectives.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
the environment is complicated by      Substantial   the risk will be offset by strong
interested parties who are not involved in           support for both the project and
the project or exogenous factors                     the concepts by the present
administration and the judiciary
capacity of the Judiciary is low to    Moderate      and by careful analysis of the
implement and degree of freedom to change           legal, judicial and political
personnel is difficult which increases               ramifications of the concepts in
unpredictability of outcomes                         advance of their implementation.
the model courts have been
chosen on a voluntary basis and
because the judges are
committed to reform.
Overall Risk Rating                    Moderate     I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.    Possible Controversial Aspects:
The creation of the Judicial Council recently may potentially give rise to problems with project execution.
G:   Main Loan Conditions
1.    Effectiveness Conditions:
None
2.    Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Project manager: The selection of a project manager acceptable to the Bank will be a condition
of effectiveness.



Page 14
Operational Manual: An operation manual will be adopted as a condition of effectiveness.
H.    Readiness for Implementation
[ ]   The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [X ] Not applicable.
[X ]   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
( X]   The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ]   The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I.     Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]
=TS,k *i L    dwa    W -G  ~n ,,
_ =-=~~~~AWJ4



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Argentina: Judicial Reform Model Court Development Project
Narrative Summary       Key Performance     Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:   reforms in judiciary                        (Goal to Bank Mission)
Judicial Reform to      related to efficiency and                      judicial reform fails to have
improve the private sector effectiveness through                       the expected development
growth and public sector   court management,                           impact
modernization          training and user
participation
Project Development                                                    (Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Agreed management      evaluation of the model   Assumptions: broad support
launch judicial reform  process following      courts through surveys    within the government and
process by building     acceptable norms and   and data                civil society for judicial
improved court and case   decreasing the backlog                       reform
management and efficient  and increasing efficiency
use of human resources    and effectiveness.
Outputs:                                                               (Outputs to Objective)
demonstration of selected  Increase the % of tax  Monitoring by PCU and   Supreme Court and
model courts which build  cases resolved       each model court through  Camaras encourage free
support for reform and                         use of reliable statistics,  experimentation
create model behavior   establish reliable case  working groups, and
(establishing team      inventory and case     qualified consultants   risk: inadaptability by
management and          tracking systems                               current court personnel to
separating judicial and                                                reform initiatives
administrative functions)
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each                     (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2   component)          Bank and consultant     Assumption: model courts
for project description)                       supervision             part of the design and agree
Court Management        US$3.5m                progress reports        to implement
Training  US   mid-term review  Risks: weak institutional
independent evaluation    capacity of judiciary to
US$1.25                                       implement project
components; resistance by
Dissemination and                                                      court personnel to
Evaluation                                                             implement changes



Annex 2
Judicial Reform Model Court Development Project
Project Description
1.    Court Management: The total cost of this component is approximately US$3.7 million.
Under this component, the court system of the seventeen model courts will reviewed in terms of their
organization, court and case management During the first six months there will be a series of studies
and designs that will prepare the piloting stage. Consultant teams in accordance with the procurement
plan which will work with each court in carrying-out the studies and developing the model court
detailed design through a participatory process. Each of the selected courts will finalize its model court
design and present it to the Coordinating commission for its information. The representative of the
Supreme Court will be responsible for assuring good communication of designs to the Supreme Court
as a whole. These designs must fulfill the following basic requirements: they can be completed within
two years, can be easily replicable, they include elements from  the subcomponents (Court
Organization, Case Management and Delay Reduction Program, Records Management, and Archive
System as described below), and seek to achieve the objectives of the project. Each design will include
the indicators for each model court, the evaluation and monitoring process, an implementation plan,
implications of the design on human resources and training needs to adapt the current staff to their new
responsibilities. Then the cOurts will implement the new designs.
The above activities can be grouped into the following subcomponents:
A.    Judicial Administration (US$2.  million)
The first subcomponent, Administration Strategy, will consist of development of administration
policies and strategies between the different levels of the judiciary (ex. Supreme Court, Camaras and
the first instance level judges) that are involved in the model court project. In addition, a strategy for
communication and cooperation will be developed among the model court participants. This will
include developing overall strategies, flexible alternatives, and uniform indicators will be developed to
compare each court's performance. Each court participating in the project will adopt administration
methods, priorities of work, concept of quality, team organization, work criteria for each staff person in
terms of planning, monitoring and statistical control for the implementation of the reforms.
Court Organization: Although some options have been discussed, the management plan for the
selected courts will be finalized. Altematives that are efficient and flexible will be reviewed for the
organizational structure of the courts. This new structure will develop administrative and jurisdictional
functions, assignment of responsibilities and distribution of personnel. This will take into account the
cultural organization of the courts, In addition, a study on the organizational factors that lead to
incentives for inefficiency and transparency will also be included and the change process will take into
account the results of this study. This will include the judicial norns that are relevant to management
as well as the budget and finance for each court. Baseline data studies and analysis on human



resources, organizational factors contributing to ine'tficiency and physical space assessment will be
done. In addition a study on the current cost of operating the courts and the costs to the litigants will
also be done.
Case Management procedures will be designed with procedures that incorporate operational standards
and statistics that will verify and control the changes being implemented. Baseline data studies and
analysis will be done on the current state of the court including statistics, archives, information
systems, and procedural process. Case management reforms could include the introduction of new
types of working teams to manage the process, notices to the parties, sanctions for the parties, and
statistical reports. Case management will include developing methods for judges to control the
movement of the cases, improve information provided by the court to the lawyers during the case
process, defining the responsibilities for the steps in the process, developing a system of statistics and
management reports, defining standards for the completion of each step in the legal process, either
fixed by law, rule or standard, developing techniques to assure timely submission of documents and
appearances of witnesses, and developing a system of equitable distribution of cases among the judges.
A statistical system will be designed and implemented in the courts. This will form the basis of a
general framework for the court management and administration that will be tested and evaluated.
(US$1.1 million) A Study will be carried out to design the information system and the programming of
new software. An additional US$1.4 million will be spent progressively procuring computers and
software to support the new organization, test the new prototypes and transfer old data to new system.
Training will be conducted for new systems. Together with the consulting firm each court will analyze
its particular challenges and collaborate with the teams created to design a model for themselves.
B.    Case Backlog Reduction (US$1. 0 million)
This subcomponent's main objective is to develop a permanent solution to reduce the number of
pending cases within the selected courts. A program will be developed through an initial diagnosis and
inventory of cases to undertake and identify efficient methods of processing delayed cases, thereby
reducing the overall congestion within the courts. The program to purge inactive case files will be
implemented. This delay reduction program will also concentrate the judge's time and effort in the
active and pending cases. The result of the model courts will be a development of standards of
caseflow management which will include timing requirements from filing to disposition for the
different case types and this may result in a recommendation for legal reform. This means that all cases
are disposed in a manner that is just, assure the quality of the process, ensure that all citizens have
equal access to the legal process, and that each step in the legal process is completed on time. A
system of records management will be designed and implemented to complement the tracking system.
In addition, an archive system will be designed and implemented to ensure safety of the files. A new
method of establishing the registry of cases will be developed and implemented. Forms will also be
developed in order to better manage the cases. This program will be complemented with a computer
system that enables the courts to follow and track the case process.(US$1,000,000) In addition, some
goods and small works will be procured (US$200,000) to remodel the courts to adapt to the changes to
be made as well as the purchase of office equipment. Together with the consulting firm each court will
analyze its particular challenges and collaborate with the teams created to design a model for
themselves.



2.    Skills Development (US$1.0 million)
The skills development component will seek to improve the skill levels within the court system for
both judges and court personnel in court administration and case management. National Training
Policy Study: The first subcomponent will develop a education policy for the judiciary which includes
general strategies and pedagogy. This will also include the identification of training needs at the
national level (estimated at US$350,000). Training: Another US$550,000 will be spent on the actual
training of judges and other court personnel in the following areas which are most relevant to
implementing successful model courts: judges- new case management techniques, and developing an
understanding of leadership, the importance of delegation, and the management of change. court
personnel will also be trained in the new administrative and case management techniques, information
technology, records management, the development of forms, development of a budget, human
resources, motivating personnel, collection and reporting of information of cases. Although the
training activities will be geared towards those participating in the model court project they will be
offered to additional judges and personnel in the pertaining jurisdictions. Training Evaluation: Finally
a training evaluation (US$100,000) will be carried out to study the relevancy of the training for both
judges and court personnel, and its replicability for the rest of the nation's courts.
3.    Evaluation and Dissemination (US$1.25 million)
This component will be comprised of outreach activities, and a number of reviews to evaluate the
results of the model courts. Judicial information centers will be created in the model courts to provide
information on the court process, requirements, case status and receiving complaints about the process
or about personnel.  For the establishment of judicial information centers (US$350,000),
approximately US$200,000 will be spent on the center design and operation in each of the model
courts, with another US$150,000 to be spent on goods (e.g., office furniture and equipment) and small
works to make the centers functional. Another subcomponent, the user opinion surveys (US$300,000),
will be conducted among the actual users of the courts. These evaluations will be designed and be
carried out during the life of the project and will provide important indicators of user satisfaction with
the courts.
Model Court dissemination subcomponent (US$450,000) will help disseminate the objectives of the
reform project to both the public and to the courts themselves through workshops and seminars. The
results of the user evaluations will also be presented to both audiences. Seminars will be held and
working groups will be formed to review the design of the model courts, the different stages of
progress, and the results. These forums will be for not only the judiciary but also the users, bar
associations, business associations, consumer associations, and law schools specific to each community
affected by the model court experience. In addition, instruments (ex. publications etc.) to disseminate
information about the different phases of the project and the evaluations will be developed for the
judiciary as well as the users.
Finally, a project evaluation subcomponent (US$300,000) will be undertaken near the end of the
program. This evaluation study will build on the data collected in both the user surveys and the public
dissemination subcomponents. Its primary function is to identify the project's main measures
developed, and evaluate this model court project's replicability in otfier provinces. Seminars will be



held to discuss the results of this evaluation with the participants as well as other interested parties in
the judiciary and the community. The results will be used to begin to develop policies for the judiciary
and make adjustments to the designs from the lessons learned in order to replicate elsewhere. This
evaluation will also include a review of the procedural codes associated with the juicio ejecutivo
(which is also the type of process used in many taxes cases) and propose reforms. The final evaluation
will be reviewed by the Coordinating commission in its effort to adopt reforms, expand them to other
courts, and consider the effects on the broader program of judicial reform.
General Project Administration (US$850,000)
In addition, a project manager would be hired for three years plus a technical officer would be hired for
the duration of the project. The PCU will form working groups with other interested institutions to
improve the processing of cases presented to courts.



Annex 3
Argentina Model Court Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Case Management                                         135.0  3,565.0  3,700.0       96%
Judicial Administration                                 0.0  2,500.0  2,500.0    100%
Backlog Delay Reduction                               135.0   1,065.0   1,200.0    89%
Training                                                100.0    900.0   1,000.0      90%
Identification & Formulation of Education Policy        0.0    350.0    350.0    100%
Training Activities                                   100.0    450.0    550.0      82%
Training Evaluation                                     0.0    100.0    100.0    100%
Evaluation and Dissemination                            150.0   1,250.0   1,400.0    100%
Public Information Center                             150.0    200.0    350.0      57%
Public Opinion Survey                                  0.0    300.0    300.0    100%
Model Court Dissemination                               0.0    450.0    450.0    100%
Project Evaluation                                      0.0    300.0    300.0    100%
General Project Administration                          500.0    350.0    850.0       41%
Total Project Costs                                     735.0  6,065.0  6,950.0       89%



Annex 4
Judicial Reform Model Court project
Cost Benefits Analysis Summary
(Currency: US Dollars/ Unit: US Dollars/ Base Year: 1997)
As part of the project evaluation options for cost benefit and cost effectiveness analysis will be
considered. For example, such an analysis could consider the revenue received by DGI through
improved efficiency and the execution of collateral decisions. Preliminary analysis shows that there is
an extremely high return for DGI from improved efficiency in the courts. This evaluation process of
costs and benefits will also assess alternatives in assessing judicial reforms.



Annex 5
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The PCU would be responsible for assuring that procurement is done in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Civil works and Goods would be procured through contracts in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, as revised January and
August 1996 and September 1997). International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would use the Bank
issued Standard Bidding Documents for the procurement of works and goods. While no NCB is
envisioned for financing under the project, it may become necessary during project implementation to
contract goods and works under NCB. Any NCB to be contracted and financed under the Project
would follow the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Recruitment of consultants' services (consulting
firms or individuals consultants) for technical studies, training and audits would be carried out in
accordance with the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997).  Bank Consultants Standard Documents would be used for the contracting of
consultants. All of these documents will be included in the Project Manual.
Contracts for goods expected to cost US$350,000 or more (to account for approximately
US$1.4 million) would be awarded on the basis of ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for goods expected to cost less than US$350,000 (approximately US$400,000 ), would be
carried out through shopping involving at least three price quotations; Contracts for works
(approximately US$100,000) would be carried out through procedures for small works.
Consultant services, expected to cost approximately US$5.0 million.  Consultant contracts to
be awarded on a Quality and Cost Basis will account for US$4.1 million. Approximately US$100,000
will be awarded to consultants on a Least-Cost basis. Finally the remaining US$800,000 of the
consultants will be selected individually. These arrangements are summarized in Tables A and C.
To ensure that the agreed procurement procedures are properly carried out, the PCU and the
Bank would review ex-ante all procurement procedures, documents, bid evaluations and contract
awards for ICB procurement of goods and works during the entire project implementation period and
the first two contracts per year for NCB for goods and works and limited prior review for all shopping
contracts. In addition, the PIU would review ex-ante the procedures for all other procurement of
goods, works and consulting services. The Bank would review ex-ante all terms of reference for
consulting assignments (regardless of their estimated cost). However, the Bank would review ex-ante
those contracts in which: (i) individual consultants to be hired for assignments with contract amounts
more than US$50,000 or (ii) consulting firms to be hired for assignments with contract amounts more
than US$100,000. In all other cases, the Bank would review ex-ante all documents of each contract.
Prior Bank and PIU review of procurement procedures of work, goods and consulting services is
summarized in Table B. Table C presents the consultant selection arrangement for the project.



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ thousand, December 1997)
Procurement Method
Components               ICB       Other 1/          N.B.F. 2/ Total Cost
Works                                              0.0            100.0       0.0      100.0
0.0           (50.0)               (50.0)
Goods                                          1,400.0            400.0       0.0   1,800.0
(1,000.0)         (100.0)             (1,100.0)
Consulting Services                                                                     0.0
Judicial Administration                                    1,100.0              1,100.0
(1,100.0)           (1,100.0)
Case Backlog Reduction                                     1,065.0              1,065.0
(1,000.0)           (1,000.0)
Training                                                     900.0               900.0
(700.0)             (700.0)
Project Evaluation                                         1,150.0              1,150.0
(700.0)             (700.0)
General Project Administration                               350.0     500.0     850.0
____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ ____ _ _  (350.0)  (350.0)
TOTAL                                          1,400.0          5,065.0     500.0   6,965.0
(1,000.0)        (4,000.0)      0.0  (5,000.0)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
1/ Includes shopping and consultants.
2/ Not Bank financed.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Description      Type of Procurement    Prior PIU Review    Prior Bank Review   Contract
Limit            Limit             Value
__ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _   _(US$1,000)
CIVIL WORKS      Price Quotations       All              limited review    <350
GOODS            ICB                    All              All               >350
Shopping              All              limited review     <350
CONSULTING SERVICES
* Firms                                 All               None             <100
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ ______ ______ A ll  > 100
* Individuals                           All               None             <50
I___ __ _ __ __ _   ____All         >50



Table C: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Consultant Category   QCBS    LCS       I   Total Costs
A. Firms                4.1      0.1 |              4.2|
B. Individuals                            0.8       0.8
Total                   4.1      0.1      0.8         5
Note: QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
LCS = Least Cost Selection
I     = Individual Consultants
Disbursement
To withdraw the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, the following categories and disbursement
percentages are proposed:
Loan Allocated       % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                Dollars)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   50,000          85%
(2) Goods                       1,100,000         100% of foreign expen-
ditures and
85% of local expenditures
(3) Consultant services,        2,350,000         100%
procurement agent fees,
audits and training
(4) Unallocated                 1,500,000
TOTAL                 5,000,000
A Special Account in US dollars, and with an authorized allocation of US$500,000, would be
established by the Borrower. All disbursements against contracts for less than US$350,000 for works,
for less than US$350,000 for goods and services, for less than US$100,000 for consultant firms, and
for less than US$50,000 for individual consultants, would be made on the basis of certified Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs). The documentation for SOEs would not be sent to the Bank but would be
retained by the PIU and made available for inspection by Bank staff. All other disbursements would be
made against standard documentation.
Retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after December 1, 1997 (but not earlier than 12
months before loan signing) in an amount not to exceed US$500,000 (10% of the Loan amount) is
recommended.



III.   Accounts and Audits
Account: The PCU will maintain identified accounts of the project in accordance with internationally
accepted accounting procedures. The accounts will show expenditures for each project component,
subdivided by expenditures financed by the borrower and the Bank. An audit of the financial status of
the program would take place once a year for the PCU components.
Audits: Project audits would be carried out by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The
audit reports would be sent to the Bank not more than six months after the end of the calendar year.
The report would include, inter alia, specific opinions on: (a) sources of proceeds and their use; (b)
SOEs; and (c) implementation of contracting clauses, including the application of eligibility criteria,
and compliance with procurement procedures and other financing conditions included in the project
manual. The Special Account would also be similarly audited.



Annex 6
Judicial Reform Model Court Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$90,000)                   Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              9/1997               6/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    12/1/1997            12/1/1997
Negotiations                                   12/9/1997            03/03/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   4/1/1998               //19
Prepared by: Supreme Court
Preparation assistance: Canadian Trust Funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Aldo Espinosa                            Administration
Neil Gold                                 Training
Javier Said                           Economic Analysis
Beth Dabak                          Procurement and Costing
Tom Kane                                Tax Litigation



Annex 7
Judicial Reform Model Court project
Documents in the Project File*
A.  Project Implementation Plan
B.   Bank Staff Assessments
Tax case assessment
C.   Other
The complete IDF study
*Including electronic files.



Annex 8
Statement of Loans and Credits



MOP Schedule D
Generated: March 11, 1998
Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                         ___                                        disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year              Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 54
Active Loans
AR-PE-51693   IBRD42190   1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(SALTA)                    75.00       0.00            0.00        30.00        0.00      0.00
AR-PE-51694   IBRD42200   1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(S.JUAN)                   50.00       0.00            0.00        50.00       10.00      0.00
AR-PE-51695   IBRD42180   1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(R.NEGRO)                  75.00       0.00            0.00        50.00        0.00      0.00
AR-PE-55477   IBRD42820   1998   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 MINING TA                       39.50       0.00            0.00        39.50        0.00      0.00
AR-PE-55935   IBRD42730   1998   GOVERNMENT                        EL NINO EMERGENCY               42.00       0.00            0.00        42.00        0.00      0.00
AM-PE-6006    IBRD42210   1998   MIN. OF ECONOMY                   P.RFM(TUCUMAN)                 100.00       0.00            0.00       100.00       55.00      0.00
AR-PE-6041    IBRD42120   1998   GOVERNMENT                        SMALL FARMER DV.                75.00       0.00            0.00        75.00        0.00       0.00
AR-PE-6050    IBRD42810   1998   REP OF ARGENTINA                  POLLUTION MGT.                  18.00       0.00            0.00        18.00        0.00       0.00
AR-PE-39584   IBRD41630   1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 B.A.URB.TSP                    200.00       0.00            0.00       200.00       13.34       0.00
AR-PE-40808   IBRD40850   1997   GOA                               N.FOREST/PROTC                  19.50       0.00            0.00        19.02        -.25      0.00
AR-PE-43418   IBRD41680   1997   REPUBLIC OF ARG                   AIDS PREV.6STD CTRL             15.00       0.00            0.00        14.24        1.49      0.00
AR-PE-46821   IBRD41310   1997   GOVT.OF ARG                       PENSION TA                      20.00       0.00            0.00        16.71        -.10      0.00
AR-PE-49268   IBRD41950   1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                SOC.PROTECT.2                  200.00       0.00            0.00        79.38      -62.29       0.00
AR-PE-5980    IBRD40930   1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 PROV ROADS                     300.00       0.00            0.00       300.00       27.67       0.00
AR-PE-6010    IBRD41500   1997   GOA                               PROV AG DEVT I                 125.00       0.00            0.00       125.00        4.55       0.00
AR-PE-6052    IBRD41170   1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 FLOOD PROTECTION               200.00       0.00            0.00       199.65        4.65       0.00
AR-PE-6059    IBRD41640   1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                MTL.CHD.NTH.2                  100.00       0.00            0.00        97.44        -.56       0.00
AR-PE-34091   IBRD39210   1996   REP OF ARGENTINA                  HIGHER ED REFORM               165.00       0.00            0.00       140.20       72.38      34.21
AR-PE-35495   IBRD39570   1996   SEC.OF SOC.DEVIT (OFFICE          SOCIAL PROTECTION              152.00       0.00            0.00         7.35        7.35       0.00
AR-PE-37049   IBRD39580   1996   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 PUB.INV.STRENGTHG               16.00       0.00            0.00        15.50        6.67       0.00
AR-PE-38883   IBRD39600   1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             ENT.EXPORT DV.                  38.50       0.00            0.00        31.13       29.04       1.04
AR-PE-40904   IBRD39260   1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             BANK REFORM                    500.00       0.00            0.00       166.00      166.00       0.00
AR-PE-40909   IBRD40030   1996   REP. OF ARGENTINA                 H. INSURANCE REFORM            100.00       0.00            0.00       100.00       58.33       0.00
AR-PE-45687   IBRD40040   1996   REP. OF ARGRNTINA                 H.INSURANCE TA                  25.00       0.00            0.00        12.22         .51       0.00
AR-PE-6030    IBRD39310   1996   REPUB OF ARGENTINA                PROVCL HLTH SCTR DEV           101.40       0.00            0.00        92.98       34.36       0.00
AR-PE-6040    IBRD39480   1996   GOVERNMENT                        FORESTRY/DV                     16.00       0.00            0.00        13.70          .31      0.00
AR-PE-6055    IBRD39270   1996   GOVT. OF ARGENTINA                MINING SCTR DEVT                30.00       0.00            0.00        12.33       -4.39       0.00
AR-PE-6057    IBRD39710   1996   GOV'T OF ARGENTINA                SECNDARY ED 2                  115.50       0.00            0.00       112.50       39.65      -3.00
AR-PE-5992    IBRD37940   1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA           SECONDARY ED I                 190.00       0.00            0.00       159.29      114.93       0.00
AR-PE-6018    IBRD38770   1995   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                PROV DEVT II                   225.00       0.00            0.00       206.96       17.95       0.00
AR-PE-6060    IBRD38600   1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 MUNIC DEVT II                  210.00       0.00            0.00       190.06       -6.01       0.00
AR-PE-6025    IBRD36430   1994   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA           MTNAL CHILD HLTH & N           100.00       0.00            0.00        30.26       16.95       0.00
AR-PE-6062    IBRD37100   1994   MIN OF ECONOMY                    CAPITAL MKT TA                   8.50       0.00            0.00          3.80       3.79       0.00
AR-PE-6003    IBRD36110   1993   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA           RD MAINT & REHAB SCT           340.00       0.00            0.00       114.65       94.56       0.00
AR-PE-6036    IBRD35200   1993   GOVERNMENT                        YACYRETA II                    300.00       0.00            0.00          1.66       1.65       0.00
AR-PE-6051    IBRD35210   1993   ARGENTINA                         FLOOD REHABILITATION           170.00       0.00            0.00          3.18       3.16       0.00
AR-PE-6034    IBRD34600   1992   GOVERNMENT                        TAX ADMIN II                    20.00       0.00            0.00           .12        .11       0.00
AR-PE-5977    IBRD32810   1991   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                WTR SUPPLY II                  100.00       0.00            0.00        61.99       62.00       0.00
AR-PE-6005    IBRD32800   1991   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             PROVINC DEV PROJ               200.00       0.00            0.00        30.25       30.23       0.00
AR-PE-6009    IBRD32970   1991   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA           AG SERVCES&INST DEV             33.50       0.00            0.00          2.64       2.12       1.74
AR-PE-5968    IBRD28540   1987   SEGBA                             SEGBA V                        276.00       0.00            0.00        67.07       67.06       0.00
Total                                                                                           5,086.40       0.00            0.00     3,031.78      872.21      33.99
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                         Page I



MOP Schedule D
Generated: March 11, 1998
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              2,054.63            7,021.56            9,076.19
of which has been repaid:                202.47            3,012.04            3,214.51
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              4,883.93            4,009.53            8,893.46
Amount sold                     :                 0.00               12.79              12.79
Of which repaid              :                 0.00              12.79               12.79
Total Undisbursed               :            3,031.78                0.00            3,031.78
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Infornation System (OIS)                                                                                                                              Page 2



MOP Schedule D
Argentina
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Jan-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan  Equity  Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1960/95/97           Acindar                37.50    0.00   25.00    65.56   12.50    0.00   25.00     15.56
1977/84/86/88/94/96   Alpargatas            24.23    6.05    6.37    89.29   19.23    6.05    6.37     75.79
1978/81/86/87/91/93/96   Minetti            10.00    0.00   10.00    30.00   10.00    0.00   10.00     30.00
1987                  BGN-TBR                .14    0.00    0.00      0.00    .14    0.00    0.00       0.00
1987/89               BGN-Bolland            .18    0.00    0.00      0.00     .18    0.00    0.00     0.00
1987/89              BGN-Flichman            .13    0.00    0.00      0.00    .13    0.00    0.00      0.00
1987/89/90/96/97     Terminal 6             19.19    0.00    0.00    18.42   13.54    0.00    0.00     11.07
1987/92              BRLP                    8.51    0.00    0.00      .58    .97    0.00    0.00       .58
1988/93              Bunge y Born            3.19    0.00    0.00    24.06    3.19    0.00    0.00    24.06
1989                 BGN-Algodonera          .22    0.00    0.00      0.00    .22    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                 BGN-Ferrum              .67    0.00    0.00      0.00     .67    0.00    0.00     0.00
1989                 BGN-FRIGOTOBA           .10    0.00    0.00      0.00     .10    0.00    0.00     0.00
1989                 BGN-Interpack           .20    0.00    0.00      0.00    .20    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                 BGN-Parafina            .50    0.00    0.00      0.00     .50    0.00    0.00     0.00
1989                 BGN-Willmor              .55    0.00    0.00     0.00    .55    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                 ROB-COMESI              .19    0.00    0.00      0.00     .19    0.00    0.00     0.00
1989                 ROB-Fracchia            .07    0.00    0.00      0.00    .07    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                 ROB-INTA                 .19    0.00    0.00     0.00     .19    0.00    0.00     0.00
1989/96              Banco Frances          41.02    0.00    0.00      .27    5.33    0.00    0.00      .27
1990                 CIP                     0.00    .08    0.00      0.00    0.00     .08    0.00     0.00
1990/94              Petroken               19.39    0.00    5.00     3.65   19.39    0.00    5.00     3.65
1991                 BCA                     1.32    0.00    0.00     1.69    1.32    0.00    0.00      1.69
1991                 ROB-Guilford            .07    0.00    0.00      0.00    .07    0.00    0.00      0.00
1991                 ROB-Longvie             .23    0.00    0.00      0.00    .23    0.00    0.00      0.00
1992                 FEPSA                   7.50    0.00    0.00     7.33    7.50    0.00    0.00     7.33
1992                 Oleaginosa Oeste        6.11    0.00    5.00     8.71    6.11    0.00    5.00     8.71
1992                 Rioplatense             5.33    1.00    0.00     1.67    5.33    1.00    0.00      1.67
1992                 San Jorge               0.00   27.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1992/93/96            MalteriaPampa         12.39    0.00    1.00    10.56   12.39    0.00    1.00     10.56
1992/95              Bridas                 38.11    0.00    0.00    63.93   38.11    0.00    0.00    63.93
1993                 Argentina Equity        0.00    2.93    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.93    0.00     0.00
1993                 Nuevo Central           6.25    3.00    0.00    10.00    6.25    3.00    0.00     10.00
1993                 Yacylec                 8.25    5.04    0.00    27.55    8.25    5.04    0.00    27.55
1993/94              Molinos                 0.00    5.55    0.00     0.00    0.00    5.55    0.00     0.00
1994                 Aceitera General       13.75   10.00    0.00     0.00   13.75   10.00    0.00     0.00
1994                 BGN                    12.00    0.00    3.00     0.00   12.00    0.00    3.00     0.00
1994                 LBAR                    0.00    1.17    0.00     0.00    0.00     .64    0.00     0.00
1994                 LBAV                    0.00    3.62    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.62    0.00     0.00
1994                 Quilmes                11.07    0.00    0.00     8.75   11.07    0.00    0.00     8.75
1994/95              EDENOR                 17.88    0.00   15.00    77.42   17.88    0.00   15.00    77.42
1994/95/96           Aguas                  73.59    7.00    0.00    239.61   73.59    7.00    0.00    239.61
1994/95/97           La Maxima               0.00   14.39    4.00     0.00    0.00   12.12    3.96     0.00
1995                 Banco Roberts           0.00    0.00   20.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00     0.00
1995                 CEPA                   11.67    0.00    0.00     3.00   11.67    0.00    0.00     3.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on March 17,1998



MOP Schedule D
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1995                  Kleppe/Caldero          5.64    0.00    0.00      0.00    5.64    0.00    0.00      0.00
1995                  Mastellone             35.71    0.00    0.00     28.00   35.71    0.00    0.00     28.00
1995                  Nahuelsat              30.00    5.00    0.00      0.00   30.00    5.00    0.00      0.00
1995                  SanCor                 18.75    0.00   20.00     24.00   18.75    0.00   20.00     24.00
1995                  Socma                  20.84    0.00    0.00     50.00   20.84    0.00    0.00     50.00
1995                  SIDECO                  0.00   15.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00      0.00
1995                  Terminales Port.        9.00    2.00    0.00      0.00    9.00    2.00    0.00      0.00
1995                  Tower Fund              0.00   15.73    0.00      0.00    0.00    4.68    0.00      0.00
1995                  Tower Fund Mgr          0.00     .14    0.00      0.00    0.00     .04    0.00      0.00
1996                  Banco Galicia          30.00    0.00    0.00    200.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    200.00
1996                  Bansud                 25.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    4.90    0.00    0.00      0.00
1996                  Brahma- ARG            18.50    0.00    0.00     33.00   18.50    0.00    0.00     33.00
1996                  CAPSA                  12.00    0.00    5.00     33.00   12.00    0.00    5.00     33.00
1996                  Grunbaum                7.50    0.00    2.00      5.00    7.50    0.00    2.00      5.00
1996                  MBA                     0.00     .16    0.00      0.00    0.00     .16    0.00      0.00
1996                  Neuquen Basin           0.00   26.40    0.00      0.00    0.00   19.92    0.00      0.00
1996                  Refisan                20.00    0.00    0.00     30.00   20.00    0.00    0.00     30.00
1996                  Transconor             25.00    0.00   20.00    210.00   25.00    0.00   20.00    210.00
1996                  Zanon                  14.00    0.00    6.00      0.00   14.00    0.00    6.00      0.00
1997                  FRIAR                  10.00    0.00    2.50      7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50      7.00
1997                  Guipeba                15.00    0.00    5.00      0.00   15.00    0.00    5.00      0.00
1997                  Milkaut                10.00    0.00   10.00      5.00   10.00    0.00   10.00      5.00
1997                  T61                    10.00    0.00    5.00     30.00    6.00    0.00    5.00     18.00
1997                  Vicentin               25.00    0.00    0.00     10.00   25.00    0.00    0.00     10.00
1998                  FAID                    0.00    5.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     .41    0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                 733.63  156.26  169.87   1,357.05  630.65  104.24  169.83   1,274.20
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1996                  AGUAS III - INC        15.00    0.00    0.00     75.00
1997                  ARGIE MAE               0.00     .40    0.00     65.00
1998                  AYG                      .45    0.00    0.00      0.00
1997                  BANCO DEL SUQUIA    0.00    0.00   10.00          0.00
1998                  F.V. S.A.              12.00    0.00    4.00      0.00
1993                  FEPSA (II)              0.00    0.00    0.00      4.00
1997                  KLEPPE II               6.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
1998                  PATAGONIA               5.00    0.00    1.00      5.00
1997                  ROBERTS NOA CL         30.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
1997                  TGN II BLINC            0.00    0.00    0.00     10.00
Total Pending Commitment:         68.45      .40   15.00    159.00
Generated by the Operations Infornation System (OIS) on March 17, 1998



Annex 9
Country at a Glance
. .



Argentina at a glance                                                               8/28/97
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY andWSOCIAL                                           America  middle-
Argentina  &Carib.  Incomer       Development dlamond'
Population mid-1 996 (millions)                       35,1       486      479
GNP per capita 19986 US$)                             8,410     3,710    4,540                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions 08t ;S                            295.0      1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1MO-M6
Population (%/)                                        1.3        1.7      1.6     GNP                              G
Labor force (5):                                       2.0        2.3      1.8       p                              Gross
per                            pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty: theadcount index (5 of populfation)            26
Urban'population (%oftotalpopulation)                   88        74       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        73        69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                22        37       35               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                  64        80       86
Illiteracy (%f of population age 15+)                    4        13       13
Gross primary enrollment f% of school-age population)   111      110      107                Argentina
Male                                                                                 _       Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratios*
GDP (billions US$)                           52.4     88.4     280.8    300.5
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                29.4     17.6       18.3    18.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP             5.8     11.7        8.5      9.0             Openness of economy
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                     29.3     23.1       18.4     18.1
Gross national savings/GDP                   28.4     16.6       17.5     17.2
Current account balance/GDP                   -2.5     -1.1      -0.9     -1.3
Interest payments/GDP                         0.9      5 0        2.1      2.3     Savings                      Investment
Total debUGDP                                14.7     57.6       32.0     33.2
Total debt service/exports                   44.7     60.1       47.4     46.7
Present value of debtGDP                        ..      ..       29.5
Present value of debUexports                   ..       ..    332.                             Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                      Argentina
GDP                                  0.6      2.9      -4.6       4.4      5 0
GNP per capita                       -1.8     2.0      -6.4       2.8      39                Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        5.1      7.6     26.4        7.4      8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and Investment I%)
Agriculture                                   6.6      7.6        7.4      7.1     40
Industry                                     50.1     39.3       36.0     36.2     30
Manufacturing                               38.2     29.7        ..0
Services                                     43.3     53.1       56.6     56.7      0
.10    91   92   93   94             9
Private consumption                          58.1       ..       72.3     73.3    -20
General government consumption               12.6       ..        9.4      8.5
Imports of goods and services                 6.0      6.3        8.5      9.3               -GDI          GDP
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   1.6       1.5       2.3      0.3     80
Industry                                     -1.5      2.7       -8.5      4.9
Manufacturing                               -1.6      0.9
Services                                      2.2      3.3       -3.0      4.6     40
20
Private consumption                            ..       ..       -8.6      5.7
General govemment consumption                   ..      ..       -6.6     -5.4     o <    >o l  '            9           9 
Gross domesticinvestment                      -3.5     5.7      -11.9      5.4    -20
Imports of goods and services                 2.4     14.5      -14.0     10.0
Gross national product                        -0.3     3.4       -5.1      4.0                   Exports  -     Iports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985      1995    1996
Domestic prices                                                                  Inflation (#)
(% change)                                                                      Asco
Consumer prices                            182.6   672.3        3.4     0.1        .
Implicit GDP deflator                      198.2   618.2        4.5     2.5    2,000
Government finance                                                              1,0
(% of GDP)                                                                         o                 _
Current revenue                               ..       ..      16.7    16.5              91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                        ..       ..      -0.2    -1.1                    GDPdef. ---CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -1.1    -2.4
TRADE
1975    1985      1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                   Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                        2,961    8,396    20,964   23,774    25o000
Food                                        ..       ..    1,969    2,203
Meat                                                        1,582    1,955     20.000
Manufactures                                 .        ..   10,836   12,004     15.0oo
Total imports (cit)                        3,947    3,814    20,120   23,733     1    n1
Food
Fuel and energy                                                0      84        S.
Capital goods                                               4,746    5,647      S
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..      ..       118      124            go  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                          r       115      120
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..       ..      102      103                  nExporta   aImports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985      1995    1996
(millions USS)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              3,498   10,039    23,889   27,076    2
Imports of goods and services              4,324    5,285    23,826   27,900      T
Resource balance                           -826    4,754        63    -824
Net income                                  -466   -5,706    -2,941   -3,523   | o
Netcurrenttransfers                           6        0       432      334         90   91 92  93  94   9    96
Cu,- nt account balance,                                                       I2
before official capital transfers       -1,286    -952    -2,446   -4,013
Financing items (net)                       208    2,200      2,515     231
Changes in net reserves                    1,078   -1,248       -89    3,782    -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)         848    4,703    15,992   19,774
C ..nversion rate (local/US$)            3.7E-10  6.OE-05       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985      1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                  Compostion of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       7,723   50,946    89,719   99,701
IBRD                                      341      700     4,913    5,372                 G      A
IDA                                         0        0         0        0               10170  4913    C
6131
Total debt service                         1,603    6,209     9,732   14,529                                 D
IBRD                                       43      114       565      608                                 4473
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                                    E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                            11709
Official grants                             0        6        36        ..
Official creditors                         59      217      1,411
Private creditors                         -111    2,350     5,674      ..
Foreign direct investment                   0      919      1,319                       F
Portfolio equity                            0        0       211             |        52323
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0      2,272     946      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              19      144       941    1,077      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       17       68       259      282      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   1       75       682      795    __1
Interest payments                          26       46       306      326
Net transfers                             -25       30       376      469
Development Economics                                                                                            8128/97



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29348
\710                                                     60o'                                                   56O'
;O~  i                                        'I B O   l l V  I A   !                                                                     20'-
BOLIVIA~
: -   ---   sl                              !                        L~~I- 
PARAGUAY
I ::   S  3: -s  a, d   ' O -;                                 9 _E            B R A  Z I Lc
-Salto                                                    /
-   )  ,   Tucmman          . FormosaSj
- -    -- -     )  <,   uC.Af N.,, gg  ,L;             Resistencias.  Posadas   r,.
Estero          Corrientes
,  ,,---.-?   wt   t=eF=,   <Caiamorca'              A'                     \\ w
)                                   FS J  o   doba   S   -    "" '
- - : l ,J 4 t~~~~a  Rioia). f 9pw=!...  ,  
-> - { ur                           -                      ;' u    S   w - r30
:  l '-  *   $ l.4 \1    ,  n  S6rdoba  -at                               * 
I" f     @San Juan                         F6 O,'Parna n-
Mendoza        San  '                             S    U        G    A
0'-, I5                               '> , j         .URUGUAYQ
Aire
-  Santa Rosao            3
Neuquen                                                                                                   --
(,'  i,=,  Y                   '-u-'           '                  --::ARGENTINA
Nawson
; ; ; <-                                 @      > ~ ~ 2 i N * S PROVINCE CAPITALS
-  .   ,!NATIONAL CAPITAt
. -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
:-   - :-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
6 0 - -   \ tS
-FALKLAND ! SLA\l -s
)                                           t-l-                                                                      50'-
.e~                                        .                                            00 200 300 AOO --; 600 KILOMETERS
;                                                                               0t ?    \8-<  ;  vnttit sicws    100    200  300  400 Miles
Ushuaia    <~.                 .: .-                      - -This mop was producedl by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
~. a Sf ,a,Ushuolaia      4<  - , E :- - The kbundaries, colors, denominations and onyother informotion shown
on this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
- judgment ao th- legal scatus af ony territory, or any endorsement or
acceptanof tuch b*orndories9
761~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~50.
APRIL 1998j



