                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35356

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-43140)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA

                         FOR A MODEL COURT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                             March 15, 2006




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective September 2005)

                                     Currency Unit = Argentina Peso (Arg$)
                                            Arg$1 = US$ 0.34
                                            US$ 1 = Arg$ 2.9

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1-December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR     = Alternate Dispute Resolution Mechanisms
CAS      = Country Assistance Strategy
Jefatura = Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers
DGI      = Tax Adminstration Office
IDB      = Inter American Development Bank
NGO      = Non-Governmental Organization
FORES = Foro de estudios sobre la adminstracion de justica
IURIX = The Software used by the implementing firm-UNITECH
PSR    =  Project Status Report
PCU     =  Project Coordination Unit also known as UCP in Spanish
UCP     = Unidad de Coordinacion de Proyecto also known as PCU in English




                                   Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                                 Country Director     Axel van Trotsenburg
                                  Sector Manager      Ronald E. Myers
                              Task Team Leader:       Maria Dakolias

                                        ARGENTINA
                             MODEL COURT DEVELOPMENT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Progress Indicators                                                     30
Annex 9. New Management Model for Courts                                         31
Annex 10. 2003-2004 Court Performance Comparison                                 35
Annex 11. Evaluatiion and Dissemination                                          37
Annex 12. Workflow Chart                                                         38
Annex 13. Model Court User Survey Results- Comparison between 2003 and 2005      39
Annex 14. Civil Court No 74                                                      40

Project ID: P050713                                                  Project Name: AR MODEL COURT DEV.
Team Leader: Maria Dakolias                                          TL Unit: LEGKM
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 15, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR MODEL COURT DEV.                                      L/C/TF Number: SCL-43140
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Law and justice (100%)
                  Theme: Access to law and justice (P); Legal services (P); Judicial and other dispute resolution
                            mechanisms (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/15/1997                                     Effective: 01/20/1999                04/29/1999
     Appraisal: 12/20/1997                                         MTR: 02/01/1999                  04/13/2001
      Approval: 04/08/1998                                      Closing: 11/30/2001                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF ECONOMY/JUDICIAL COUNCIL
                      Other Partners:      SUPREME COURT, MINISTRY OF JUSTICE

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager:                 Ronald E. Myers                                Guillermo Perry
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria Dakolias                                 Maria Dakolias
ICR Primary Author:             Herman J. Nissenbaun


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Model Court Development Project were to identify and establish conditions in
Argentina under which judicial administrative improvements could take place and eventually form part of a
broader reform program. These goals were to be approached through an examination of some of the
judiciary's systemic problems and experimentation of new methodologies for possible uses as models.

To these ends, the Project's more detailed objectives were to upgrade the training of judges and court
personnel, identify needed reforms in the courts' administration, design methods to achieve them, apply
them and evaluate their results.

The Project emerged from the Bank's discussions with the Government on legal and judicial reform issues
beginning in the early 1990s. The authorities had already initiated some substantial efforts to improve
aspects of the justice system. Among other measures, Federal and provincial officers increased the
judiciaries' budgets, reduced direct executive branch involvements in judges' selection, and introduced new
forms of judicial governance.

These efforts were constructive.      But many Argentines justifiably continued to complain about the
judiciary's problems of effectiveness, timeliness of actions and accessibility. They felt little confidence that
the rule of law actually prevailed in the highly politicized environment or that the justice system served
social equity purposes. They also believed that the judiciary suffered from corruption.

In the face of these problems, the Government and the Bank agreed to collaborate in an assessment of the
sector, which occurred over 1993-95.     This and other reviews concluded that there was a considerable gap
between the laws on the books and those actually enforced. This was attributed to many shortcomings, e.g.,
weaknesses in court administration, legal education, judicial training, alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms, and access to the system. Members of the legal community and interest groups generally
agreed that these areas merited attention. So too particularly did the two Executive Branch entities which
had large numbers of unresolved cases with substantial funds at stake: the Tax Authority and Social
Security Administration.

These findings and a national legal reform program launched in the late 1990s formed the basis for a
Bank-supported activity in the sector. The Government had long requested help for this purpose. However,
there were substantial differences of opinion among the many stakeholders, including elements of the
executive, judicial and legislative branches, as well as civil society and commercial interests. There was
thus considerable general support for expanding judicial independence and justice services----but also
equivalent disagreement as to how to realize them. Moreover, there was no clear commitment from the key
Argentine actors on the nature, scope or timing of priority reforms.

Accordingly, the Government approached the Bank in 1997 to help it prepare a specific proposal. It was
jointly decided to undertake some small scale interventions, intended to first address key judicial issues,
build up experience on particular elements, and then implement the actions which had demonstrated
effective results. The Model Court Project emerged from this decision, for which a LIL was chosen.

It was agreed to focus this pilot project on the judiciary's troubled administrative system, with special
emphasis on its case management practices. Statistics showed that many courts were overwhelmed by a
backlog of cases; some dated back 30 years. In 1993, the number of pending cases exceeded 1.2 million. It
then took five years to dispose of one in every ten cases in the Federal District's first instance courts.



                                                     - 2 -

Significantly, investigation indicated that providing larger budgets did not help to reduce these delays.
Instead, the major problems identified were the centralization of court administration, worsened by poor
infrastructure, technology and expertise. The first instance courts had not been involved in developing
administrative norms, and trial courts did not communicate on operational matters. They frequently had
archaic organizations and practices, as well as outdated legal frameworks. Many judges did not consider
themselves responsible for moving cases through the system and disposing of them expeditiously. Case
management problems were mainly addressed by adding personnel to the courts.

It was therefore decided to concentrate the envisaged project on case processing problems in twelve first
instance courts of different types, all of which had heavy caseloads. Two were multi-jurisdictional,
handling civil, commercial, labor and criminal cases. The other ten included three social security courts,
which      were chosen partly because of their specialization and the executive branch's concerns about the
slow resolution of substantial public finance cases, as well as four civil and three commercial courts in
Buenos Aires.

This group appeared to comprise a good sample for the operation. The first instance courts were the most
congested and were considered to be relatively amenable to change. They were critical too for most citizens
as that was where the ordinary civil, commercial, family, labor and criminal disputes were handled. Also
the first instance courts were considered less political than the top levels of the Federal judiciary.

Based on these assumptions, a US$5 million loan was provided. It called for an initial six-month review of
the organization, functioning and case management of the courts chosen. Consultants were to work with
each court in carrying out these studies and developing a design for subsequently implementing their
recommended changes. It was estimated that these designs could be completed within two years, and then
piloted in the courts. Their outputs were targeted to include, among others, new court organizational
structures, case management processes, case flow standards and an archive system. And, in line with LIL
norms, the Project called for studies and workshops to evaluate the results of these activities, followed by
their widespread dissemination.

For monitoring and evaluation purposes, the performance indicators defined were: (a) annual reductions in
the numbers of pending cases and their durations; (b) increases in clearance rates; (c) increases in the
percentages of judgments written with information technology, (d) enhanced public trust in and satisfaction
with the judiciary; and (e) upgraded judicial management performance.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project's objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
There were four components:

(a)      The component on court management consisted of assistance for the design of organizational and
procedural improvements, along with a study of the courts' operating costs and the preparation of a case
delay reduction program. There were also provisions for minor court remodeling works, as well as the
acquisition of office equipment and information systems.

(b)      The component on judicial skills development consisted of assistance for the formulation of an
educational policy for judges and court staff, in addition to a training program for them about new case
management techniques and other aspects of the courts' changes. This was to be followed by an evaluation



                                                      - 3 -

of the training's results.

(c)      The evaluation and dissemination component comprised outreach activities, including the design
and operation of information centers, together with studies of and workshops on the overall results of the
program, and conveying this information to court users, civil society in general, and the judiciary at large.

(d)      The fourth component provided for the operation of a project coordination unit.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project's components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
A QAG review was not carried out.

The Project proposal was consistent with the goals of the then existing CAS (Report No. 16505-AR), and
the CAS discussion on April 24, 1997. Similarly, judicial reform objectives were high on the Government's
policy agenda.

However, the PAD aptly characterized the project situation as: "While the desired goal is clear, the path is
not." It was apparent that the Government's national judicial reform program was inadequately developed,
and its intentions were too complex. At least in part, that was because improving the justice system then as
now was a hotly contested subject. A number of parties wished to have the reforms focused on their
differing preferences. So, even before this activity began, it was clear that there would have to be wide
consensus reached before any scheme could be properly implemented. Thus, while the definition of the
project's objectives and content was well formulated, it did not reflect an adequate and broadly agreed
framework.

These and other factors made it difficult to have a sufficiently detailed scheme. In addition, the designers
viewed the project as an experimental venture in a risky sector, whose participants lacked experience in
managing development projects. They accordingly wanted to try out some possible solutions to the sector's
problems. For these reasons, and because they feared that the risks involved were inappropriate for a
standard investment operation, they opted for a LIL. Its selection was perhaps suitable under the
circumstances. The Project's design did reflect the good idea of following a pilot "bottom up" approach
concentrated on the judiciary's basic deficiencies. It was also constructive to focus on systemic problems
and to distinguish between the judges and their staffs' administrative responsibilities from their judicial
functions. Another good idea was to channel the project's inputs to "model" courts as a proposed hub for
experimentation and learning. And it was sensible to start with a sample of the lower rather than higher
level courts. On all these accounts accordingly, it was reasonable to hope that the Project could help
provide a productive example for, and thereby enable the Government to improve, judicial reform efforts.

However, the Project's organizational arrangements proved to be unsustainable and caused much of its
difficulties. They contributed significantly to extended delays in getting the operation effectively launched
and running. The Project was framed with the assumption that the Supreme Court could lead and
coordinate the operation even though it lacked a demonstrated strong capability to perform this role
effectively. But it was believed that the Court's independence and experience in managing its own budget
and determining its own administrative regime would enable it to guide court administration improvements.
In addition, to help bolster the Court's competence, the plan also called for a high level ad hoc commission
to provide it policy guidance and oversight. It was to include representatives from the Ministry of Justice,
Office of the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers (Jefatura) and the Supreme Court itself. Further, it was decided
to get support from the sizeable Supreme Court administrative team for project coordination and



                                                     - 4 -

implementation as the nucleus for a subsequent PCU. And the UNDP would be contracted for help on
procurement management.

In this connection, 1994 amendments of the Constitution had empowered a Judicial Council with the
management of the administration of the judicial branch, covering its financial resources, selection of
judges and their discipline and removal, plus the establishment of judicial regulations. Consequently, some
thought was given to its participation in the Project but it was not clear when the Council might begin
operating. Thus, its inclusion in the Project was understandably considered to be too hypothetical as the
Council had not yet been constituted at the time of the PAD, and it still lacked legislative approval.
Accordingly, the Council did not figure in the project execution arrangements or was discussed in the loan
documentation. The PAD did, however, refer to it in its risk assessment section, which stated; "The
creation of the Judicial Council ...may potentially give rise to problems with project execution."

These factors indicate some of the initial obstacles which impeded the creation of a strong institutional
framework. Fortunately, the structure was later improved. The Project's governance was subsequently
vested with an abler executive committee. The materialized Council ultimately assumed its operational
command and began to exercise it effectively, and the PCU's leadership and composition were upgraded.
And probably the most significant change was the strengthened leadership which emerged from the model
court judges themselves, who became an integral part of the Project team. In the interim though, the initial
organizational arrangements troubled the activity's implementation, e.g.:

l At the outset, the Supreme Court effectively ceded its authority over management of the project to the
    Ministry of Justice (which had been responsible for the hiring, promotion and transfer of judges and
    court personnel).

l Early on, the Council differed with the Justice Ministry's actions and disputed its involvement.

l Problems arose over the transfer of signing authority for loan disbursement requests from the Justice
    Ministry to the Council. The same occurred over the Council's request for the transfer of some Justice
    Ministry project staff, as well as when the PCU needed to be moved to the Council.
l There were disputes over which was the responsible Government entity for processing loan
    procurement requests.
l There were also differences between the Council and the Supreme Court.


Therefore, it would have been desirable for the loan documentation to have discussed the likely evolution of
the Supreme Court-Council relationship regarding the Project's leadership and its requirements. Some
attention should also have been given to the role of the Justice Ministry.

The above litany raises some questions about the Project design, especially for a first-time client in the
sector:

l Was there a sufficiently comprehensive, realistic stocktaking of the Argentine organizations concerned
    and their capacities to properly set the bases for what the Project sought to address?
l At the time of preparation, no sector institution either in the Executive or Judicial Branch had proven
    capabilities for managing or carrying out an externally financed operation of the Project's character.
    The Council's role was not yet then a reality. By 1999, however, there was agreement that the Loan
    would have to be changed to reflect the Council's assumption of the direction of the operation as soon
    as it was ready for the task. Might it not have been better, therefore, to defer the Loan pending the
    effective instrumentation of a competent entity for directing the project's activities---rather than
    entering into an insubstantial arrangement at the start? Since there was no productive technical


                                                     - 5 -

     assistance provided in the Project's first years, what would have been lost with such a delay?

Further, on the Project's design, the PAD responsibly reported that the environment was "complicated by
politically interested parties" and that "the capacity of the Judiciary (to implement) is low." However, it
assumed that these risks would be minimized by the "strong support by the present administration and the
judiciary." These prognostications were not borne out.

The ICR thus finds the Project's quality of entry to have been "Unsatisfactory." There were many
mitigating factors, as this report shows. However, ICR norms call for this rating to be based on: (i) the
consistency of the Project's objectives with government priorities for judicial sector improvements; (ii) the
demonstrated capacities of the implementing agencies; and (iii) the quality of the design. The Project did
not fully meet the last two criteria.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
After substantial delays, the Project had begun to overcome some of the problems which had impeded its
implementation. By 2003-4, under the leadership of the Council, that turnaround started to show some
positive results. This was timely since by then the economic crisis which began in 2000 had produced a
large increase in the number of cases being filed in the courts. The resulting Project achievements are
described below. Readers are cautioned, however, that there is no solid evidence to provide strongly based
indications that the reported changes were definitive or are sustainable.From the latter's perspective, as
discussed below, additional implementation data would be needed. In part, this is because the Project was
terminated before its activities were fully carried out over a reasonable period.

 Court Management

 The Court Management component called for studies on case management, statistics and archives,
 organization structure, human resources, court infrastructure, technology, administrative processes, and
 causes of delay. These found that the courts had backlogs of up to 70,000 cases and delays of more than
 five years. One of the findings was that the most time-consuming stage of the courts' functioning occurred
 in the service of process of both parties. For this reason, different stages of that procedure were analyzed,
 and then the courts discussed how they might be adjusted without changing the governing code. Part of
 this activity involved working groups of judges, court staff and technical experts which attempted to
 develop a new strategy, training plan and case reduction plan.

 Judicial Administration

 Based on the above assessment, the judges and court personnel along with project staff developed designs
 for a new organizational model (depicted in Annex 9). It envisaged a reorganization of the courts' existing
 office spaces linked to that model. However, this remodeling had to be limited because none of the
 existing buildings had been built as courthouses. The new layout included a re-orientation of the functions
 of a common reception center for case files and other documents, a public information center, a common
 service of process, intermediate archive system , new formats for case folders and filing systems, new
 processes for taking cases from the files and ensuring the files' security, electronic notifications, and a
 system for registration of files. The team also determined the kinds of case folders to be used.

 Complementing these efforts, consultants designed and helped to install a court management system, which
 initially concentrated on IURIX software. It became the hub of the Project's interventions in the courts'



                                                       - 6 -

 administrative processes. Later in the Project, more than 90,000 cases were transferred into IURIX. In
 addition, as part of the new system, a user manual was prepared for each jurisdiction as well as processes
 for data migration and quality assurance. Moreover, the judges and court staff took initiatives to propose
 reforms in their working methods, from which some creative ideas emerged, e.g., an E-mail network of the
 judges. Unfortunately, though, some of their proposals failed to obtain the requisite decisions from appeals
 courts. Others were more successful, e.g. the development of performance indicators for the judges and
 staff which were included as part of the case management system (ref. Annex 8), and so were produced
 electronically. In collaboration with the Council, a regulation was developed to allow electronic
 notification of service process, which is still to be approved. And the pilot courts' changes which were
 implemented did not receive the formal "reglamentacion de excepcion" (procedural approval) during
 project implementation. Later in 2005, though, the "'reglamentacion" was approved by the Council, and
 one of the model courts - Civil Jurisdiction 74-- did receive an ISO 9002 certification.

 Further, court jurisdictional and administrative functions were separated. Judicial offices were integrated
 for more efficient use of resources and avoidance of overlapping, and general administrative functions
 were decentralized. Common administrative units were established in several courts with shared staff, a
 strategy developed for their operations, and changes identified in technology, along with the definition of
 their implications for other revisions. A plan for upgrading the court staff was developed. It took into
 account their capacities and potential aptitudes, development possibilities, education and professional
 experiences, unused skills and behavioral characteristics.

 Case Backlog Reduction

 The judges and court personnel also found that overlapping work responsibilities and the absence of an
 efficient case management system had contributed to the case backlogs which were central to the courts'
 unsatisfactory performances. To remedy these, they chartered a delay reduction program with consultants'
 help. They delineated the key stages of their case processing workflow (ref. Annex 12), and worked on
 establishing standards for the completion of these stages, and on measuring the quantitative and qualitative
 aspects of the processing function. In addition, they installed a sign-out procedure for the archives, and
 prepared a manual on their functioning as well as an intermediate archive unit. They held six workshops
 on the new procedures.

A review of the results of these activities in three of the sample courts found that the average time required
in 2004 for deciding a case in the Social Security Court No. 1 was 1.67 years, 1.81 years in the
Commercial Court No. 11, and 3.48 years in Civil Court No. 74. With the Project's influence, the duration
time for a case was reduced from 2003 to 2004 by 28 percent for the Social Security Court, 7 percent for
the Civil Court and 53.7 percent for the Commercial Court. These changes are shown in Annex 10.

 In order to gauge the full effects of these activities, independent consultants (FORES-the Foro de Estudios
 Sobre Administracion de Justicia and the US National Center for State Courts) reviewed the resulting
 changes against the agreed project indicators. As noted above, these had included improvements in terms
 of annual reductions in the numbers of pending cases and their durations, well as increases in the courts'
 clearance rates. The studies of these effects covered all twelve pilot courts. The findings of these surveys
 are discussed in the "Results" section below.

 However, the data should be read with some caution. As the introduction of the changes was a phased
 operation, the new management model was implemented later in some (especially the commercial) courts
 than others. The evaluation looked mainly at the pilot Social Security and Civil Court jurisdictions as the
 data for commercial courts was not complete at the time. This was significant as the surveys were only


                                                        - 7 -

 able to capture one year's experience with the model's application. Furthermore, the model was not fully
 implemented in any of the courts--or in the same manner in all jurisdictions. Moreover, at the evaluation
 time, several courts (the commercial and the Resistencia and Mar del Plata courts) lacked the full data
 needed for measuring the performance against the aforementioned indicators.

 Skills Development

 The judges and the court of appeals created and approved a skills development program. This included
 basic training in Word, Excel and case management, as well as leadership and organization management
 requirements. Approximately 240 persons were trained. Surveys of the training found that 94% of the
 respondents said that it was excellent or very good. In addition, the judges and court personnel were
 trained in IURIX (The Software used by the implementing firm- UNITECH)

 Evaluation and Dissemination

 During the implementation of the Project, monitoring and evaluation committees were established. They
 addressed the issues of quality, processes, management indicators, case backlog reduction indicators,
 technology transfers to the Council and the courts related to IURIX and the migration of data, installation
 of equipment and information centers. They reviewed Project progress based on the statistics generated by
 the new systems, e.g., such monthly data as shown in Annex 11.

More than twenty-one workshops were held to monitor progress. In addition, twelve evaluation audits were
carried out. The results of the monitoring and evaluation activities were presented to the Asociación de
Magistrados y Funcionarios del Poder Judicial de la Nación, the Bar Association, the Ministry of Justice,
and court staff unions. The reports of FORES(Foro De Estudios Sobre la Administracion de justicia) and
the State Courts National Center were made available and discussed in a public forum.

During the course of project implementation, other public information activities included the dissemination
of monthly executive summaries to judges, a wide array of Argentine Government agencies and NGOs;
publication of project developments in assorted newspapers and on web pages. A pilot project video was
filmed and information pamphlets were provided to the public.

Results

For assessment of the backlog reduction measures, the evaluators took as baselines the case processing
performance figures of 2003, and compared the results in 2004 with those in the previous year. The results
differed sharply with the sector analysis' stocktaking in 1993, which showed that it took an average of five
years to dispose of one of every ten cases in the Federal District's first instance courts.

FORES and the National Center found that the data on the Project's effects showed improvements in
reductions of case processing times and their consequences. The number of pending cases in the civil courts
fell by 69 percent and by 24 percent in the social security courts. This was well above the performance
indicator target of 15 percent decreases annually. The courts' clearance rate (the number of cases resolved
as percentages of cases filed that year) in two jurisdictions increased in : (a) the civil courts by 312, 377
and 101 percents, and (b) the social security courts by 58, 45 and 49 percents. These far exceeded the
performance targets of 20 percent annual increases. The duration of typical cases in two jurisdictions from
filing until decision stages, and from then until enforcement stages fell by 82 percent (four civil courts) and
43 percent (three social security courts). Note: the target did not specify the extent of the desired decreases.




                                                      - 8 -

Clearly, the relatively brief period of project execution plus the assorted problems in installing the new
management model qualify the firmness and replicability of the reported gains. Also, it was apparent that
some courts did better than others in adjusting to the new procedures. And more experience would be
needed to show if the processing time reductions are sustained, or whether the reduction in the courts'
backlogs were the results of one-time purging of pending cases or other factors not attributable to the
Project's influence. On the other hand, as mentioned, the number of cases filed in the courts during this
period increased exponentially due to the "pesification" of dollar accounts.

There is less satisfactory evidence of gains in other target areas, The anticipated signs of increased case
judgments prepared with information technology were not manifested because the PCU was reported to
have had difficulty in making this tabulation. The assessment of pilot courts users' trust in and satisfaction
with justice services found widely ranging judgments. However, there seemed to be almost across- the-
board agreement among users in different jurisdictions of "increased satisfaction of expectations" about the
pilot courts (see Annex 13.)

In this connection, incidentally, a separate contemporaneous study of national confidence in the judicial
system found that citizens' trust in early 2006 was 7 percent higher than in 2004-2005. But 43 percent of
those polled in this study expressed distrust in the judiciary, especially those residing in the Federal capital
where there were most of the pilot courts. Other data reported indicates that the twelve courts carried out
self-audits of their performances in relation to the indicator of upgraded judicial management. There have
been reports that the pilot court judges and staff were estimated to have gained a 45% better comprehension
of case processing, and that they helped imbue a more service-oriented culture in their organizations.

Apart from the FORES-National Center assessment, the project was also reviewed in the aforementioned
evaluation audits and several forums. Their general conclusion was that it had usefully tested a new court
management model, highlighted weaknesses in the courts for promoting innovations, prepared some court
personnel to advance them, and kindled some consciousness about what is needed for successful judicial
reform in Argentina.

On the individual Project components, there were mixed opinions about their achievements and benefits.
The court management model was judged partially successful in the civil courts of Buenos Aires and Mar
del Plata. The commercial court judges leaned towards positive views but were divided. The social security
courts said that it was not possible for them to determine the model's success or failure but they commented
that there was an unfavorable environment for its implementation. The Council saw some potential in the
model's software for improving its operational effectiveness and is said to have been considering what
would be needed to make the system work effectively throughout the entire judiciary. The IURIX software
was criticized for being excessively focused on its Information Technology elements, rather than installed
within a broader court management framework. The requisite parts regarding its physical infrastructure
and its layout, personnel requirements, and the change management implications were commonly judged to
have been underserved, as were its training requirements. Those surveyed recommended the organizational
structure's gradual generalization in the judiciary. There was also general support for the recommended
changes in courts' layouts. The case backlog reduction measures were judged to have been successful.

But some of the participants felt that the Project's achievements were relatively modest and not broad
based. They criticized important elements. Some felt that neither the leaders of the Supreme Court nor of
the Council were as fully engaged in or supportive of the Project activities as would have been desirable
i.e., suggestive of a "limited buy-in." A number expressed skepticism about the Project's impacts. These
reservations are unsurprising. They appear to reflect the considerable length of time from the beginning of
the understandings and accords involved in the Project's initiation until the implementation measures had


                                                      - 9 -

more demonstrable effects. In the interim, local interest probably waned. The economic crisis caused
considerable delays in procurement that also discouraged stakeholders and observers. In addition, the
Project's operations, to some degree, may actually have been bypassed by comparable activities launched
under other auspices, some even under other Bank activities, as discussed in the "Sustainability" section
below.

To be sure, a full assessment of the Project's achievements and outcome is hindered by the limited number
of pilot courts in which the planned changes were fully tested, the relative brevity of their duration, and
their evaluation too soon before their results and impact were completely clear. It might be useful,
accordingly, to undertake some further analysis of those cases which had the highest level of activity in
order to see more definitively what took hold, what remains and what were the more complete effects of the
Project's interventions.

At this point, though, given the aforementioned constraints, the Project is not expected to yield satisfactory
development results. To its credit, the new court management model became operational and is reported to
be functioning in the pilot courts, its software and equipment were implemented; its organizational structure
and administrative units were defined; and its quality system elements were integrated. However, the
Project did not meet its more fundamental objectives of identifying, establishing and evaluating conditions
for effective Federal judicial reform. But these shortcomings need to be examined with the appreciation
that the operation was a LIL(Learning and innovation loan), rather than a full scale TA (Technical
assistance)activity. Moreover, as one Judicial Council member observed, there is an appreciation that the
Project was not a completed LIL with this first experience. Viewed from that perspective, it bears noting
that the Project successfully met at least some of the criteria for productive LILs by accomplishing the
following:

a. It created and at least partially tested a new judicial court management model. This demonstrated one
    approach to such changes, including its concepts, organizational requirements and implementation
    approach.
b. It sparked several innovations, including the case management software (IURIX) and the E-mail
    network of court judges.
c. It set examples of practices which others found pertinent. The Council began to re-examine its
    information technology strategy based on the experience with IURIX. It also has been reviewing other
    courts' physical layouts following the work done under the Project.
d. It identified some significant weaknesses in the pilot courts, arguably applicable to others which could
    be addressed with potential reforms, e.g., that most of their delays in case processing happened in the
    service of process stage.
e. It found and helped prepare some "change agents" in the pilot courts and identified useful conditions
    for their successful operations in possible future judicial modernization or development efforts. In
    addition, the Project's activities provided "real life" training opportunities for the judges and their
    cadres concerning their normal functions. They had the judges and their personnel develop their own
    designs for the changed judicial administration practices, which they subsequently put into effect.
f. It provided some orientation for the Council in its entry into the judicial network, and contributed to its
    evolution to some degree.
g. It flagged some strengths and weaknesses of different judicial and executive branch institutions
    regarding their future involvement in these kinds of development activities, along with some practical
    lessons about their roles and relationships.

On balance, nevertheless, the Project's outcome is rated "unsatisfactory." That is because of the limited
achievement of its objectives, its minor impact, and the relatively thin prospects of its direct sustainability.


                                                      - 10 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
(ref. para. 4.1)

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was modest. The Project did advance some desirable
changes in judicial system processes It abetted promising initiatives in several courts for developing
improved capabilities to manage developmental activities. The most significant achievement in this regard
was the sparking of some judges' interest in championing and pushing for system improvements. However,
these gains were not accompanied by any substantial strides in the pilot courts' institutional development,
nor that of the Council.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As with other Bank-supported activities at the time, the economic crisis which began in 2000 adversely
affected Project progress. One effect was the departure of the project director and the PCU's international
expert, along with changes in the political appointees. The new country conditions also obstructed the
bidding for the projected contract for the model courts' technical assistance provider. These and other
factors necessitated several extensions of procurement activity deadlines.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government support of the Project was overall unsatisfactory.

It failed to meet the conditions of the Loan's effectiveness for an unusually long period. It took over a year
to do so, until April 29, 1999, which theoretically only allowed some 2 1/2 years for project implementation
before the original Closing Date. The delay was caused by problems in meeting relatively routine
requirements.

Further, the Government early on had requested the processing of a separate judicial reform activity
alongside of this Project. In the process, the fledgling Council, while still not yet very strong, volunteered
to lead Argentina's work on the proposition. This, however, was contested by the Justice Ministry and
problems arose about their respective functions, which the Government should have resolved much more
promptly.

Regrettably too, the inter-organizational differences were allowed to persist for some time, Fortunately,
albeit belatedly, this situation was improved by the Government's decision to place the oversight of project
implementation in the hands of a new executive committee. This remedial action was endorsed by a Loan
Amendment.

The Amendment, which also shifted implementation responsibilities to the Council, facilitated the Bank's
agreement to extend the original Closing Date for an additional year until November 2002. This was the
first of a series of such extensions, which themselves became a problem. Later, the Government requested



                                                     - 11 -

an additional two-year extension in order to proceed with a contract for implementing the model court
design, which had fallen behind schedule. Partly because of that slippage, the Bank solely agreed then to a
one year extension. Then in late 2003, a new Closing Date of November 2004 was set after there was
evidence of better adherence to project schedules, and an additional limited extension was approved
afterwards. Subsequently though, the Bank rejected the request for a still further extension until November
2005, fixing the Closing Date at September 30, 2005.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The tasks of launching and conducting the initial implementation of the Project were not well discharged.
The contractor chosen for implementing designing the court changes began its work only after April 2003,
and full implementation really started in March 2004. As late as January 2004, approaching five years
after Loan effectiveness, only approximately US$ 2.1 million of the Loan was disbursed, in part due to the
Argentine peso's devaluation during the economic crisis.

Throughout the Project's life, it suffered from inadequate continuity of both management as well as
technical expertise. It took over four years for the newly created Council to develop its infrastructure,
capabilities and procedures. The pace changed for the better but only slowly.. Once it did so, though, it
functioned better. In early 2002, a supervision mission found progress in the consolidation of the new PCU
and an improvement in the leadership of the operation by the new executive commission. These appeared to
have facilitated advances in the Project's implementation. However, it was disturbing that the operation
had no project manager--at the same time that it lacked a national director, who had to be a separate
individual. This deficiency was important as there had already been 3 national directors and 3 project
managers since the Loan became effective. Fortunately, the Council hired an experienced project manager
with strong qualifications to head the PCU, who ably filled the void.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Project involved assistance in the amount of US$ 3.78 million. The original financing plan was
amended by a cancellation of US$ 800,000, which left an undisbursed balance of US$ 373,612.
Disbursements lagged behind the four years initially estimated and eventually extended over six years.
Most of the disbursement for the project took place during 2004 and 2005.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
   There is not a strong probability that the project's achievements in relation to its objectives will be
maintained. For one, given the anticipated change in the composition of the Council in November 2006, it
is difficult to anticipate what reforms may be considered or undertaken in the future. For this reason, the
sustainability rating is judged "Unlikely."

      It bears noting, though, that some factors in Argentina could conceivably serve to clear the way for
further efforts towards comparable court reforms. These include the Argentine judiciary's declared
commitment to sector modernization, the renewed demands of the legal community and other stakeholders
for such changes, and continued strong public calls for better justice system functioning, These are
complemented by broader, more positive appreciation by judges and court personnel of the value of the
kinds of changes which this Project sought to stimulate. There are, in addition, the similar independent
attempts already launched under other Government initiatives, some with Bank assistance. Under the
Second Provincial Development Project (PDP-II), courts in three provinces successfully improved their
services, adopted more client-friendly orientations and added many useful innovations. Court and
courtroom management were enhanced and new automation facilities used to increase transparency, reduce
delays and help judicial officials better manage their outputs. In the process also, the judiciaries were


                                                    - 12 -

encouraged to adopt a      broader public sector orientation. Subsequently, PDP-II's success led to the
Government's decision to promote further provincial court improvements under the new Sub-National
Government Public Sector Modernization Project.             These are programmed to emphasize further
enhancements of the courts' administrative processes, organizations and practices, as well as infrastructure
and equipment. In addition, on their own, several provincial judiciaries have reduced delays, expanded
services and adopted alternative dispute resolution programs. Moreover, the Judicial Council did approve
the "norma de exception" sanctioning the pilot courts, and is reported to be considering their expansions.

So there are favorable leads which could be broadened and entrenched more definitively into the courts'
cultures and workings. But true long term application would probably hinge on the successful fulfillment
of some important requirements. One of these would be greater rationalization of the differing visions and
goals of the disparate Government and other stakeholders regarding future court management and
administration.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Some elements of the new management model have been incorporated in the pilot courts in which the
proposed changes were tried out. One of the pilot courts has been recently certified with ISO 9002, which
is reported to be a first for the Argentine judiciary. Two more pilot courts are preparing for their
certification. But there is little basis to assume that all of the 12 courts will fully follow suit---or that the
Council will attempt to guide or influence the integration of the tested changes in the regular operations of
all of the first instance courts. It has been reported, though, that the Council together with the Supreme
Court directed a substantial of key personnel to follow the project so that they could assist in case the
model were to be expanded or needed modifications. At the same time, as noted in paragraph 6.1,
comparable efforts have been initiated elsewhere in the judiciary which could change its functioning in
similar fashion.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank sought to meet Argentina's judicial system requirements under very daunting conditions. These
included a complex institutional setting, a perhaps excessive number of interested parties from both the
executive and judicial branches along with civil organizations, disparate visions and expectations, and
pressures for early improvements to try to mitigate public discontent. At the preparation stage, the very
extended length of time required to reach even a modicum of consensus on the Government's judicial reform
strategy and its implementation showed how difficult the task would be, as well as created doubts about the
advisability of undertaking a project. But the Bank proceeded to process the loan, even in the face of the
unfavorable environment and poor sector framework, apparently because of its concerns about Argentina's
lack of an effectively functioning, responsive judiciary. At the time, too, the situation was complicated by
thorny political disputes in Argentina. On these several accounts, the Bank had opted to wait until it felt
that the situation improved when it appeared that overall governance issues had assumed greater
importance and judicial reform was gaining priority. With the benefit of hindsight, though, it might have
been beneficial to delay the Loan even further in order to await possible yet additional improvement of the
circumstances---although the Bank team considered that there had already given been ample time for such
a change.

For the aforementioned reasons, the Bank's lending intentions are considered to have been well motivated.
In addition, the Bank played the key role in helping the Government define and examine its requirements,
identify sundry action proposals, sort out its priorities and obtain a consensus among the several interest
groups, which were not easy. The sector analysis in the early 1990s was only one of the helpful Bank


                                                     - 13 -

contributions in this circumstance. On the other hand, the design of the Project could have been sharper and
better based. As detailed in paragraph 3.5, the Project's quality at entry did not reflect an adequate and
broadly agreed framework, project preparation should have been more complete, and the organizational
arrangements proved to be unsustainable.

Independently, as well, the Bank devoted resources early in the project implementation execution period to
the consideration and preparation of a separate loan which the Government requested for a national judicial
reform project. As it turned out, these resources appear to have been largely wasted, as the new
Government which took office in 2003 set this proposal aside. In addition, this action appears to have
reflected a diffusion of attention, which might better have been concentrated on the Model Courts Project.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was an onerous task from the outset with the difficulties of getting the Project fully
underway. Nevertheless, regular supervision missions were appropriately conducted and the
implementation problems were thoroughly reported. Task management was attentive to the enforcement of
the LIL's covenants. It displayed well balanced intentions to make effective use of the Bank's remedies
when there were lapses in the Government's adherence to the agreed understandings about the Project's
governance structure and other Loan Agreement provisions. It also attempted energetically to advance
solutions of the numerous difficulties which persisted. However, in view of these problems' importance and
prolongation, it is puzzling to note the almost consistently "Satisfactory" ratings of implementation
progress in the PSRs(Project Status Reports). By comparison, the "DO" ratings were more often
"Unsatisfactory." In this connection, the Bank should have paid greater attention to the situation, perhaps
through a "QAG-type" implementation review early on, or intervened otherwise more forcefully to address
the lack of progress and recurrent setbacks.

To its credit, task management was quite responsible and flexible in dealing with the economic crisis'
effects. In addition, it took some creative steps to mitigate the instability of the Project's institutional
framework. An example was the Bank's successful helping to establish the Council in the lead role,
clearing the way for better direction and execution. The task team also did commendable work in winning
the judges' active participation in the operation. In addition, it promoted the beneficial decision to charge a
Council officer as the Project's national director and the PCU's supervisor.

The Bank decided to not further extend the Closing Date, which had already been done four times, beyond
September 30, 2005. It then had several reasons for concerns about possible further implementation delays.
The installation of the new case management model entailed the purging of pending cases so that the model
would not be clogged from the beginning. As mentioned, some courts had 70,000 cases pending. This
purging was still going on in 2005. Also, the model courts needed more technical support for their revised
operations. Moreover, their judges and court staff, as well as their Council counterparts, needed additional
training. And the PCU(Project Coordination Unit) still had to pay greater attention to tracking progress on
the performance indicators and training the judges in this function. To be sure, it was recognized that the
termination would scuttle the crux of the LIL operation by necessitating its evaluation before the operations
underway were well advanced. But the Region judged that the Project had been unduly delayed in meeting
its objectives, and its implementation record and accomplishments did not inspire confidence about the
merits of allowing more time.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was positive in important respects. It responded to difficult country and
Government circumstances with significant motivations and efforts while trying to address one of
Argentina's most serious economic and social problems. However, the Bank's limited experience then in



                                                     - 14 -

judicial reform, coupled with the differences in the Government's ranks, obstructed the preparation of a well
fashioned project design. Despite these difficulties, after the Project's organizational arrangements became
more orderly, the Judiciary ultimately moved towards the accomplishment of the Loan's performance
targets. This was achieved with the help of hard Bank work, its considerable professionalism and
dedication, and consistent advances in coping with the continuing difficult local environment. Ultimately,
some of the envisaged benefits of the LIL were realized, and, in the process, the Bank opened an
important relationship in a critical sector.

But the Bank had failed to pay adequate attention in the project's formulation to the sector's serious
institutional problems. Its handling of project preparation was flawed by acceptance of an inadequate
design and unrealistic implementation schedule, given the capacity of the judiciary. The Bank's actions in
the first years were insufficient to remedy these and related difficulties. Although these problems persisted
for some time, the Bank failed to intervene proactively in a timely fashion to rigorously address and
resolve them. It did not recognize sufficiently early that there was not sufficient or appropriate Government
ownership. These were serious shortcomings.

Therefore, the Bank's overall performance is difficult to evaluate. On balance, it is rated "Unsatisfactory."

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's participation in the operation's preparation could have been more useful and productive.
The Government's commitment to the proposed reform effort was clear and well intended. However, its
actions were too diffused and its judgments were not well agreed to among the responsible and interested
participants. In particular, the Government could usefully have helped to install better implementation
arrangements. In addition, as noted, the Justice Ministry had developed an independent overall reform
program, calling for more expansive activities involving the Bank, by 1998 but this never materialized.
Considering the Model Courts Project performance's during its first years, it was questionable whether the
Government could have realistically expected to be able to manage that scheme and this Project
simultaneously.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government commitment and performance during the extended period of the LIL's                   execution were
generally inconsistent. It did a reasonably good job of shielding the operation from any great harm during
the economic crisis, and decided to maintain it in the active portfolio. Conversely, the Government did not
provide sufficient help to ameliorate the differences among its various institutions or to curb the excessive
turnover of project directors.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
One of the contributing factors to the Project's slow start was the failure to adequately engage the model
court judges in it. They expressed frustration over the limited extent of their participation which the PCU
should have made some greater efforts to help remedy. Similarly, those Argentines who participated in the
evaluation workshops or were interviewed about its performance criticized the PCU for being insufficiently
active, especially in leadership, notably during the first years of the project execution period.

The quality of project management was inadequate in the initial years. There were some improvements,
though, after the transfer of project implementation responsibilities to the Council and the strengthening of
the leadership of the PCU. The latter successfully implemented, for example, the constructive plan for
coordinating all the procurement needed for the acquisition of hardware, cable laying and data transfers. It
also developed expanded reports and presented them regularly to the executive committee and the Council.



                                                     - 15 -

To the PCU's credit also, the Project's financial audit reports were clean. However, the Unit's performance
is judged to have been excessively concentrated on an exclusively administrative focus.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is rated "Unsatisfactory."

8. Lessons Learned

(a) In such difficult sector circumstances, the lack of an adequate risk analysis with careful assessment of
the borrower's implementation capacity and commitment to reform was particularly costly.

(b) The Project should not have been started when the instituionality of the judiciary was in flux as a result
of the establishment of the Judicial Council, which          implied a substantial change in the judiciary's
governance structure. Neither should the Bank have persisted in pushing a project when there was lack of
commitment from the authorities responsible for its execution. .

(c) In the light of the two aforementioned points, the key prerequisites for future Bank-supported judicial
activity in Argentina should include (i) a clear project concept and design; (ii) a strong understanding by the
judicial authorities of the project's concept and objectives; (iii) the assurance of adequate independence for
the judiciary for the task; (iv) assurance of adequate "ownership" of the proposed design and work plan; (v)
provisions for building project execution capabilities in the courts; (vi) a realistic time frame; and (vii)
selection of a good lending instrument.

(d) In such troubled sector environments, it was inadvisable to focus on systemic improvements without
adequate attention to the institutional problems. The LIL was imbalanced in this respect.

(e) It would have been better to focus the model courts experiment on one entire legal jurisdiction instead
of individual segments.

(f) The design and supervision of computerized systems intended for integrated management improvements
need to be closely monitored because of the possible tendencies of those responsible to mainly stress
software elements instead of these systems' purposes to help propel management changes.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
   Al haber finalizado íntegramente la implementación, puesta en funcionamiento y desarrollo del Proyecto
   Juzgado Modelo, es menester realizar algunas reflexiones para adoptar un temperamento definitivo
   respecto a su réplica, no obstante las correcciones de las que pudiera ser objeto, principalmente
   atendiendo las que pudiese formular la Dirección de Tecnología.
                  Así es como, en 1998, el BIRF - Banco Mundial ­ firmó un contrato con el Poder
   Ejecutivo Nacional por U$S 5.000.000 para desarrollar un Nuevo Modelo de Gestión NMG en el
   ámbito judicial que se implementó en tribunales seleccionados al efecto, los cuales llevarían adelante la
   experiencia en calidad de juzgados piloto.
                  Para poder analizar en forma correcta los resultados del proyecto, resulta indispensable
   evaluar detenidamente todos los obstáculos que debieron ser superados hasta llegar a su conclusión



                                                     - 16 -

definitiva. En un primer momento, la Unidad Coordinadora UCP funcionó en el Ministerio de Justicia y
Derechos Humanos de la Nación, asumiendo su titular la Dirección Nacional. En 2002, y a pedido del
BIRF dicha Unidad fue trasladada al Consejo de la Magistratura del Poder Judicial de la Nación,
designándose al presidente de la Comisión de Administración y Financiera como Director Nacional. Es
decir que dicha responsabilidad recayó en uno de los Consejeros Jueces. Fue así que durante 2003
cumplió esa función el Director Nacional y en el período 2004 ­ 2005, bajo otro Director.
               Fue así como se seleccionaron un total de doce Tribunales: diez de Capital Federal -
correspondientes a los fueros Civil, Comercial y de la Seguridad Social - y dos Juzgados Federales del
interior. (Chaco y Mar del Plata). Luego de que las respectivas Cámaras eligieran los Juzgados en los
que ejecutaría el Nuevo Modelo de Gestión, los jueces fueron invitados a realizar una serie de cursos y
talleres en los cuales fueron adiestrados para encarar la tarea central que les depararía el Proyecto, la
elaboración de un diseño global del Modelo de Gestión deseado. Esta tarea se llevó a cabo con la
asistencia de especialistas contratados al efecto por UCP: una vez concluido ese diseño, el cual fue
aprobado por los jueces involucrados, se llamó a licitación para contratar una firma consultora que
realizara el diseño detallado y los llevara a la práctica con el soporte de un sistema informático.
               Ahora bien, justo es admitir que desde 1998 a 2002 UCP no había tenido un desarrollo
plausible. Eso llevó a que las autoridades del BIRF propusieran el traspaso a la órbita del Consejo de la
Magistratura, en el cual hubo un arduo debate sobre la continuidad o cancelación del Proyecto.
Finalmente triunfó la primera moción. No obstante, cuando se produjo dicho traspaso coincidió con la
renovación eleccionaria de Consejeros y por consiguiente el cambio de autoridades del Consejo de la
Magistratura. En esas condiciones, en noviembre de 2002 comenzó a impulsárselo de manera diferente,
en la convicción que sólo así podrían lograrse no sólo avances concretos sino su definitiva
implementación, aun con plazos exiguos, fruto de las demoras sucesivas que antes había sufrido. Fue
así que se llamaron las licitaciones indispensables para afrontar las distintas adquisiciones, como
también para la contratación de la empresa que habría de desarrollar el software. Se redujo
drásticamente el número del personal contratado, y fue así como al poco tiempo pudieron observarse
resultados concretos.
               Paralelamente, y en virtud de una opinión inicialmente desfavorable a la recepción del
Proyecto en el ámbito del Consejo, se formó una Comisión de Seguimiento, integrada por Consejeros de
distintos estamentos, que luego se disolvió ante la irrefutable evidencia de sus avances, y la
transparencia tantos en las contrataciones realizadas, como en el manejo de gastos y selección de
precios. Los jueces comprometidos en UCP tuvieron una participación decisiva, fueron ellos quienes
impartieron las órdenes, aun venciendo serios escollos, para que funcionarios y empleados a su cargo
asumieran al Nuevo Modelo de Gestión en forma ímproba. Su esfuerzo mancomunado permitió arribar
al final del camino con un éxito rotundo, pese a que inicialmente había concitado la opinión adversa no
pocos detractores. El Poder Judicial pudo demostrar acabadamente que una gestión transparente y
eficiente, no son incompatibles. Demostró también que el único programa de reforma judicial puesto en
práctica era posible y necesario. En realidad se cumplió con el apotegma de: reformar la justicia desde la
justicia.
               UCP fue evaluado en cada uno de sus cometidos mediante una auditoria externa efectuada
por FORES quien resultó seleccionado a tal fin. La conclusión de ese examen fue ampliamente
favorable a la definitiva implantación de un Nuevo Modelo de Gestión Judicial, no obstante que, dicha
institución había sido particularmente crítica con el Proyecto. Por su parte la Auditoria General de la
Nación, dijo que no tenía observaciones que formular en la ejecución de los diferentes gastos irrogados
por UCP. A su vez, el Juzgado de 1era. Instancia en lo Civil Nº 74 consiguió certificar las normas ISO
9002 - de Control de Calidad de Gestión ­ lo cual sin duda, además de la profunda satisfacción que
generó en la Dirección Nacional, demostró la utilidad del Nuevo Modelo de Gestión Judicial.
               No debe perderse de vista que desde marzo de 2003 a octubre de 2005, cuando concluyó
en sus fases de implantación y ejecución, los plazos previstos para llevar adelante el Proyecto Juzgado


                                                   - 17 -

Modelo habían fenecido. Probablemente, esa circunstancia se haya erigido en uno de los mayores
desafíos a vencer, y pese a las prórrogas, las dificultades fueron ampliamente superadas con éxito. UCP
no fue una reforma definitiva, ni estructural al sistema judicial, sino una prueba piloto que permitió
avizorar perspectivas francamente auspiciosas para una correcta administración del servicio de justicia.
La modernización de todo el sistema judicial argentino, es una obligación impostergable, que no admite
demoras, pues importa respetar la máxima de nuestro Preámbulo constitucional de AFIANZAR LA
JUSTICIA.

              Finally, it should be noted that the Partners do not agree with the Bank's ICR ratings for
this project. They have indicated that although there was unsatisfactory progress while the project was
being managed by the Ministry of Justice, there was more satisfatory implementation under the
management of the Judicial Council. In this sense, there were two distinct stages of project
implementation. In addition, they consider that the project's accomplishment's sustainability is likely as
the model continues to be used in the pilot courts and the Judicial Council is considering expansion of
the model to additional courts. As a result, overall they would rate the project as satisfactory.




                                                  - 18 -

English translation of the Partner Comments

As the implementation, launching and development of the Model Court Development Project reached its
end, it is necessary to reflect on some issues in order to adopt a definite position regarding its replication,
notwithstanding any correction that could be applied, especially those that could be formulated by the
Direction of Technology.

In 1998, the World Bank signed a contract with the Executive Branch for US$5 million to develop a New
Judicial Management Model, to be implemented in selected pilot courts.

The obstacles that the project faced must be evaluated in detail in order to analyze correctly the outcomes
of the project. First, the Coordination Unit (UCP) functioned within the Ministry of Justice and Human
Rights, headed by the National Direction. In 2002, as requested by the Bank, the UCP was transferred to
the Consejo de la Magistratura, the president of the Administrative and Financial Commission was
appointed National Director. Consequently, the responsibility laid with one of the Counsel judges. During
2003, the UCP functioned under the National Director and during 2004 and 2005, under another Director.

Twelve courts were selected: 10 civil, commercial and social security courts from Capital Federal, and two
federal courts from Chaco and Mar del Plata. Once the respective Chambers (civil, commercial and social
security) selected the courts that would implement the New Management Model, the judges were invited to
participate in a series of courses and workshops to receive training for the main task that the
implementation of the Project required, which was the global design of the Management Model. The design
was performed by specialists hired by the UCP and after the approval by the judges involved, a bid was
called to contract a firm that would implement the design with support of a computerized system.

From 1998 to 2002, UCP did not have a plausible performance. Because of that, the authorities of the Bank
proposed the transfer of the UCP to the Consejo de la Magistratura, where the continuity or cancellation of
the Project was debated. Finally, the continuity was decided. However, this transfer coincided with the
election of new counselors and the subsequent change of authorities within the Consejo. In such conditions,
in November 2002 the Project was given a different direction in order to achieve not only concrete goals
but also its implementation, even given the insufficient deadlines, product of previous and consecutive
delays. The necessary bids were called for the different acquisitions and contract of the firm that would
develop the software. Staff was reduced and outcomes were soon observed.

Because of the initial unfavorable opinion to the transfer of the Project to the Consejo, a Follow-up
Commission composed by counselors was created and later dissolved in view of the evidence of progress
and transparency in procurement, expenses management and prices selection. The judges committed to the
UCP had a decisive participation; they gave the orders to staff under their charge to assume the New
Management Model. Their joint efforts resulted in a complete success at the end of the road, in spite of
initial resistance to the project and the pressure of detractors. The Judiciary Branch highly proved that a
transparent and efficient management is possible. It also proved that the only judicial reform program
implemented was possible and necessary. The premise of reforming justice from inside the judicial system
was achieved.

The UCP was evaluated through external audits performed by FORES, which was selected to this end.
Such evaluation resulted favorable to the implementation of a New Management Model. The Auditoría
General de la Nación had no observations to the expenses done by the UCP. Furthermore, civil court
number 74 received certification of ISO 9002 ­ of Quality Control Management ­ which demonstrated the
utility of the New Judiciary Management Model.

It should be noted that from March 2003 to October 2005, when the implementation and execution phases
finalized, the deadlines had become due. Probably, this circumstance was one of the most difficult
challenges and despite the extensions, difficulties were overcome. The UCP was not a definite or structural
reform to the judiciary system but a pilot test that permitted to envisage favorable perspectives for a correct
administration of judiciary services. The modernization of the entire Argentine Judiciary System is an




                                                        19

obligation that cannot be postponed and does not allow for any delays because the maxim from the
Constitutional Preamble "To enhance Justice" must be respected.



(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None




10. Additional Information




                                                    20

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
1) The number of cases pending will               Number of pending cases reduced by 18%     The number of pending cases in the civil
decrease by approximately 15% every year          per year                                  courts fell by 69 percent and by 24 percent in
                                                                                            the social security courts.
2) Number of cases resolved will increase by Clearance rate was 28%                           The courts' clearance rate in two
approximately 20% every year.                                                               jurisdictions increased in : (a) the civil courts
                                                                                            by 312, 377 and 101 percents, and (b) the
                                                                                            social security courts by 58, 45 and 49
                                                                                            percents. These far exceeded the
                                                                                            performance targets of 20 percent annual
                                                                                            increases.
3) Duration of a typical case, juicio ejecutivo ( Duration of a case 1.8 years, which is a   The duration of typical cases in two
from filing until the decision stage and then     decrease from an average of 5 when the    jurisdictions from filing until decision stages,
from the decision until the enforcement           project began.                            and from then until enforcement stages fell
stage) will decrease.                                                                       by 82 percent (civil courts) and 43 percent
                                                                                            (social security courts).
4) Increase of percentage of judgements           75%                                       All Courts now use computers to write their
written with information technology as a proxy                                              judgements. An increased portion of these
for the use of modern technology: The base                                                  were written with the help of information
value was 15%.                                                                              technology.
5) Increase in trust in the judiciary and         Not available                             Surveys showed increased public satisfaction
satisfaction by the public in the service                                                   with judicial services in all pillot courts except
provided by the judiciary.                                                                  for the one in Resistencia.
6) Index of management performance based                                                    The 12 pilot courts carried out self-audits of
upon a self- audit.                                                                         their performance.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A




1End of project




                                                                    - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                  US$ million        US$ million
1. Case Management                                                       3.70                 3.22                   88
2. Training                                                              1.00                 0.00
3. Evaluation and Dissemination                                          1.40                 0.00
4. General Project Administraton                                         0.85                 0.79                   95

Total Baseline Cost                                                      6.95                 4.01
                            Total Project Costs                          6.95                 4.01
                    Total Financing Required                             6.95                 4.01
Amounts are approximate since information provided did not include dollar equivalents. An exchange rate
of US 1 = 2.34 Argentine pesos was used.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               0.00                0.00               0.10             0.00              0.10
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.05)           (0.00)             (0.05)
2. Goods                               1.40                0.00               0.40             0.00              1.80
                                       (1.00)             (0.00)             (0.10)           (0.00)             (1.10)
3. Services                            0.00                0.00               4.56             0.50              5.06
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (3.85)           (0.00)             (3.85)
   Total                               1.40                0.00               5.06             0.50              6.96
                                       (1.00)             (0.00)             (4.00)           (0.00)             (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               0.00                0.00              0.20             0.00              0.20
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.20)              ()             (0.20)
2. Goods                               0.39                0.00              0.90             0.05              1.34
                                       (0.39)             (0.00)            (0.90)              ()             (1.29)
3. Services                            0.00                0.00              2.29             0.18              2.47
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.29)            (0.00)           (2.29)
   Total                               0.39                0.00              3.39             0.23              4.01
                                       (0.39)             (0.00)            (3.39)            (0.00)           (3.78)
Note: Dollar equivalents for counterpart funding are approximate as data provided did not include US
dollar equivalents. Exchange rate of US$1= $2.34 was used.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)



                                                      - 22 -

       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                 Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                    Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                              Bank          Govt.        CoF.         Bank       Govt.      CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Court Management               3.20          0.50                     3.16       0.06             98.8    12.0
Skills Development             0.80          0.20                                                 0.0     0.0
Dissemination and              0.50          0.90                                                 0.0     0.0
Evaluation
General Project                0.50          0.35                     0.62       0.17             124.0   48.6
Administration

  Amounts are approximate since information provided did not include dollar equivalents. Exchange rate of
  US$ 1 = 2.34 Argentine pesos was used.




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/26/1997                3    TASK MANAGER (1)
                                             CONSULTANTS(2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/01/1997                2    TASK MANAGER (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              09/29/1997                4    TASK MANAGER (1)
                                             CONSULTANTS (3)

              03/03/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1)
                                             CONSULTANTS(3)

 Supervision

              11/18/1998                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              04/05/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS (1)
              02/18/2000                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               U
                                             CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
                                             (1); JUDICIAL REFORM (1)
              05/22/2000                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             JUDICIAL TRAINING (1);
                                             MODEL COURTS (1)
              11/05/2000                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               U
                                             MODEL COURTS (1)
              11/26/2001                3    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.             S               S
                                             COUNSEL (1); CASE/COURT
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              11/26/2001                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             JUD. SECTOR SPECIALIST (2)
              10/26/2002                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             U               U
              05/30/2003                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              05/30/2003                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             JUDICIAL SEC. SPEC. (1);
                                             OPS. ANALYST (1)
              02/23/2003                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              05/24/2004                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             JUD. SEC. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (3)
              11/15/2004                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               U
                                             SECTOR MANAGER (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              04/17/2005                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               U
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST




                                              - 25 -

                                           (1)
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)

 ICR
               03/18/2006             2     TASK MANAGER (1)
                                            OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER(1))



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            17.7                         170.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 23.1                           21.8
  Supervision                           78.9                         228.5
  ICR                                  18.68                           88.8
  Total                              119.97                          421.2




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Legal and Judicial Sector Assessment, June 2001
   2. Project Appraisal Document Report, March 1998
   3. Proyecto de Desarrollo de Juzgado Modelo (PROJUM), Informe Preliminar, FORES, August,
  2000
   4. Executive summary of progress for portfolio review, Moises Lichtmajer, PROJUM, July 20, 2005
   5. Consultant Report - Javier Said, Informe de Mision, July 2005
   6. Memo to the Board on the Loan Agreement Amendment, 2000
   7. "PROJUM" - powerpoint charts depicting proposed implementation of pilot court management
  model, August 2005
   8. Evaluacion de los Resultados de la Implantacion del Modelo de Gestion en los Juzgados Modelos,
  Informe Final, FORES, 21 de Julio de 2005
   9. Evaluacion de los Resultados de la Implantacion del Modelo de Gestion en los Juzgados Modelos,
  Informe de Integración, FORES, July 29, 2005
  10. Evaluacion de los Resultados de la Implantacion del Modelo de Gestion en los Juzgados Modelos,
  Seminario de Integración - Recomendaciones del I     Informe Final, FORES, July 29, 2005
  11. FORES - "Indice de Confianza de La Justicia" (ICJ), powerpoint presentation, November, 2005




                                                - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Pilot Courts' own defined Performance Indicators

  B O X 1

           Indicador                            Objetivo                         M étodo

Satisfacción y Comunicación con el Justiciable

Cantidad de quejas y reclamos      M edir cuantitativamente la        Suma de quejas y reclamos
                                   evolución de la satisfacción de    (pendientes + resueltas)
                                   los justiciables

Cantidad de Sugerencias vía Buzón  M edir cuantitativamente la        Cantidad de sugerencias
Justiciable                        evolución de la comunicación       recibidas
                                   con los justiciables.

Resultado encuesta satisfacción    M edir cuantitativa y              Encuesta de satisfacción
justiciable                        cualitativamente la evolución de
                                   la comunicación con los
                                   justicia bles.


Comunicación Interna y Mejora Interna

Índice de cumplimiento de agenda   M edir el efectivo cumplimiento    Agenda ejecutada / agenda
de reuniones                       de los compromisos asumidos        planificada
                                   respecto a la comunicación
                                   interna
Can tidad de Sugerencias vía Buzón M edir cuantitativamente la        Cantidad de sugerencias internas
Empleados                          evolución de la comunicación       recibidas
                                   interna y la participación de los
                                   empleados
Cantidad de propuestas de mejora   M edir cuantitativamente la        Suma propuestas de mejora
                                   evolución de la comunicación       recibidas
                                   interna y la participación de los
                                   empleados

Calidad

Cantidad de productos no           M edir la evolución de la          Suma de PNC (cerrados y
conformes                          efectividad del sistema de         pendientes)
                                   gestión de la calidad
Cantidad de acciones correctivas   M edir la evolución de la          Suma acciones correctivas
                                   efectividad del sistema de         (cerradas y abiertas)
                                   gestión de la calidad
Cantidad de acciones preventivas   M edir la evolución de la          Suma acciones preventivas
                                   efectividad del sistema de         (cerradas y abiertas)
                                   gestión de la calidad
Resultado evaluación de            M edir la efectividad del proceso  Resultado evaluación de
proveedores                        de solicitud de bienes y servicios proveedores
Resultado encuesta clima interno   M edir la evolución de la          Encuesta clima interno
                                   satisfacción de los empleados y
                                   la efectividad de los planes
                                   aplicados a la mejora del clima
                                   institucional
Evaluación Plan de Capacitación    M edir la efectividad de la        Evaluación anual vs. Objetivo
                                   planificación del plan de          establecido
                                   capacitación




                                                       - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. New Management Model for Pilot Courts


                                    PROJUM



               Proyecto de Desarrollo de Juzgado Modelo
                                     PROJUM

            IMPLANTACION DE UN NUEVO MODELO DE
                 GESTION EN LOS JUZGADOS PILOTO

                   Préstamo del Banco Mundial 4314 AR
        Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo




     Ámbito de Ejecución

               Juzgados                               Localización
 n Federal Civil y Comercial Nº 2       Mar del Plata ­ Bs. As.
 n Federal                              Resistencia - Chaco
 n 1° Instancia en lo Civil Nº 46       Ciudad de Buenos Aires
 n 1° Instancia en lo Civil Nº 74       Ciudad de Buenos Aires
 n 1° Instancia en lo Civil Nº 78       Ciudad de Buenos Aires
 n 1° Instancia en lo Civil Nº 100      Ciudad de Buenos Aires
 n 1° Instancia en lo Comercial Nº 5    Ciudad de Buenos Aires
 n 1° Instancia en lo Comercial Nº 11   Ciudad de Buenos Aires
 n 1° Instancia en lo Comercial Nº 15   Ciudad de Buenos Aires
 n Federal de la Seguridad Social Nº 1  Ciudad de Buenos Aires
 n Federal de la Seguridad Social Nº 8  Ciudad de Buenos Aires
 n Federal de la Seguridad Social Nº 9  Ciudad de Buenos Aires




                                                 - 31 -

Capacitación

·Creación de Aula de Capacitación en Informática para el Poder Judicial de
la Nación (Cerrito 536 ­ Capital Federal)

·Evaluación General previa de los conocimientos en Word y Excel

·Adecuó la enseñanza al nivel de los alumnos

·Elaboración de "Material de Apoyo" con los contenidos necesarios para
cada programa (Word y Excel).

·Se capacitarán aproximadamente 240 personas en un período aproximado
de 6 meses

·Finalizados los Cursos de Capacitación se realizaron Encuesta
Evaluatoria de los cursos dictados.




Encuestas de la capacitación



                    Evaluacion del Curso en su conjunto


                                   No contesta
                          Bueno        3%
                           3%

                                                 Exelente
                                                   40%


                  Muy Bueno
                     54%




                                                - 32 -

  Servidor y Puestos
  de Trabajo.              EL Nuevo Modelo de Gestión
  Mobiliarios.                                                                   Carpetas y Archivos
                                                                                 Verticales para la
                 Juez                                                            letra                                           Mesa
     SP                                                                                                              por
                   S
                                                                                                                        Edificio     Receptora
                                                                               Mensajería

                                                    Juzgado
          PJ             PA        E                       del

   E                O          E
          E                                                   Mesa
                           E                                                                 Mensajería

                                                                                                                                                  Autoconsulta
                            Registro de
                             Servicios
                                                                                                   Archivo
                                                                                               Intermedio
       Servicios y Logística




                            Desarrollo del Proyecto

                 Estrategia                      Visión y Objetivos

                                                 Factores Críticos de Éxito

                                                   Evaluación de Situación Actual
         Requerimientos
                                                   Conf. Diagnóstico del Func. Y Diseño Global

                                                                    Diseño Detallado de Procesos y Organización
              Diseño                                                 (Mejores Prácticas, Capacidades Requeridas, Normatividad)

           Detallado                                                              Documentación de Procesos
                                                                                  (Alineada a Requerimientos de ISO 9001)


                                                                                  Habilitación de Software Aplicativo
Software Aplicativo                                                               (Configuración de IURIX, Desarrollos a la Medida,
                                                                                    Interfaces con Sistemas Actuales, Carga de Información)

                                                                         Verificación de la Solución
Preparación de la                                                        Preparación para el Cambio
    Implantación                                                         (Procesos, Organización y Herramientas/Software)


  Implantación                                                           Transferencia Conocimientos/Habilidades
                                                                         Transición (Herramientas/Software           e Información)
                                                                         Soporte (Procesos         y Herramientas/Software)
                        Comunicación y Diseminación




                                                                            - 33 -

  Archivos judiciales para el nuevo Modelo de Gestión


n El PROJUM propone en su diseño   n Ventajas
  global la Archivación vertical     n Optimización del espacio
                                     n Poco desgaste del expediente
                                          n Fácil acceso
                                          n Carpetas reutilizables
                                          n Ahorro de tiempo
                                          n Sistematización del archivo
                                   n Desventajas
                                     n Representa    un    gran   cambio
                                        cultural




               Vista del Mobiliario propuesto




                                         - 34 -

Additional Annex 10. 2003-2004 Model Court Performance - Results for 3 pilot courts

Box 1 - Social Security Courts - Seguridad Social No. 1

                            Indicadores de Gestión SS1

    2

  1,5
                                                                                   2003
    1
                                                                                   2004
  0,5

    0
             Indice         Indice         Indice         Indice     Tasa de
        Duración        Congest          Descongest    Evacuación Sentencia




Indice de Duracion - 2.06 years for 2003 and 1.67 years for 2004 = 28% reduction

Box 2 - Commercial Courts --Comercial No. 11


                  Indicadores de Gestión 2004


    4
  3,5
    3
  2,5                                                           2003
    2
  1,5                                                           2004
    1
  0,5
    0




    Congestion    Descongest                 Duración
                               Evacuación


Indice de Duracion - 3.37 years for 2003 and 1.81 years for 2004 = 53.7 % reduction

Box 3 - Civil Service Courts - Civil No. 74




                                                  - 35 -

                         Indicadores de Gestión


     4
   3,5
     3
   2,5                                                               2003
     2
   1,5                                                               2004
     1
   0,5
     0



      Congest                         Duración
               Descongest  Evacuación            Sentencia
                                            Tasa



Indice de Duracion - 3.48 years for 2003 and 3.26 years for 2004 = 7% reduction

These charts portray the changes in case processing in the three courts mentioned in the "Case Backlog
Reduction" part of Section 4 of the ICR text. The figures on 2003's performance were obtained from the
three courts' own data. In the case of the civil and social security courts, the information on 2004's
performance was derived from the IURIX data base for half of that year's case processing. It was then
projected for the remainder of that year. For the commercial court, , the firm which collected this
information solely used the court's own data since IURIX was not implemented there until Novermber
2004

Source: UTE DDS Unitech




                                                    - 36 -

Additional Annex 11. Evaluation and Dissemination

Sample of Courts' monthly monitoring reports
              Mayo Junio      Julio*   Ago     Set  Oct Nov Dic Feb  Mar
Sentencias    199     230     162      238     254  256 241 208 210  153
Resolutivas
Otros         57      62      27       92      123  74  88  37  70   83
motivos
Expedientes   2786    3435    1718     3040 3259 2656 2677 2492 3108 2877
a Despacho
Firmas        7138    7233    1588     2048 3620 4712 3311 3251 2973 3254
Actuaciones
Iniciados     266     208     86       305     238  261 217 263 305  231




                                            - 37 -

Additional Annex 12. Workflow Chart

                                                       I N P U T                                            I N P U T        P R O C E S O     C E D U L A                     P R O C E S O
                                 I N P U T                                                                                                                                        F I R M A
     I N P U T                                    D O C U M E N T O                                  D O C U M E N T O          F I R M A      E X T E R N A
D O C U M E N T O           D O C U M E N T O

                                                                                                                                                                                                E J E C U C I Ó
                                                                                            P U R O                                                                                                   N
                                                                                         D E R E C H O                   A P E L A C I O N                     S E N T E N C I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                S E N T E N C I

    INICIO                                                                                                                                                                                            A
                             C O N T E S T A                                                                                                                                                    ( O U T P U T )
  D E M A N D A               D E M A N D A

                                                                                             A 3 6 0                   C E L E B R A C I Ó N         A C U E R D O
                                                                                                                         A U D I E N C I A       H O M O L O G A D O                   A P E L A C I O N


                                          P R O C E S O
                  C E D U L A                F I R M A                                      P R O C E S O
                  E X T E R N A                                                                                                                                                             A R C H I V O
                                                                                               F I R M A                                           P R O C E S O
                                                                                                                                                      F I R M A                            ( O U T P U T )

       I N P U T
                                                                    I N P U T                      N O T I F I C A
 D O C U M E N T O                                                                                                       P R O V I S I Ó N
                                                               D O C U M E N T O                       C I O N            P R U E B A S
                                          O T R O
    C E D U L A                        J U Z G A D O                                                                                                  A U D I E N C I A
   E X T E R N A                       ( O U T P U T )                                                                                               P O S I C I O N E S

                                                                                                                                                                     A U D I E N C I A

    C E D U L A                                                                   P R O C E S O                        P R O D U C C I Ó N                            T E S T I G O S

   E X T E R N A                                                                     F I R M A                            P R U E B A S
                                                                                                                                                                             P E R I C I A S

                                                                                N O T I F I C A                                                                        I N F O R M E S
         I N P U T                                                                  C I O N                              C L A U S U R A
  D O C U M E N T O
                                       A R C H I V O                                                                                             A G . D O C U M E N T A L

      C E D U L A                      ( O U T P U T )                                               A L E G A T O S

     E X T E R N A                                                          I N P U T

                                                                     D O C U M E N T O                                    A U T O S A                  P R O C E S O
                                                                                                                        S E N T E N C I A                 F I R M A
      C E D U L A
     E X T E R N A                                                 P R O C E S O
                                                                       F I R M A                                                                                                   E J E C U C I Ó N
                                                                                                                                                                                   S E N T E N C I A
                                                                                                                        S E N T E N C I A                                            ( O U T P U T )

                                                                                                                                               A P E L A C I O N




                                                                                                     - 38 -

Additional Annex 13. Model Court User Survey Results --Comparison between 2003 and
2005



                          Opinion de los usuarios
                                                          Fuero de           Juzgado            Juzgado
      Dimensión             Fuero         Fuero
                             Civil      Comercial        Seguridad       Federal No2 de Federal de
                                                           Social         Mar del Plata       Resistencia

   Tangibilidad           +15,2%         +9,4%              +14%             +29,5%              -3,7%


   Fiabilidad              -10,7%         +13%             -0,5%             +20,5%            -16,5%

   Capacidad de
  respuesta                 -4,9%         -1,4%            +0,6%              -1,9%            -11,4%


   Seguridad                +3,5%        +4,2%             +4,5%             -10,2%               -8%


   Empatía                  -7,7%        +6,3%            +13,3%               +1%              -31,7%

   Satisfacción de
  expectativas               +6%          +17%             +27%               +19%                -26%


Source: This is data was obtained by FORES. The objective of the survey was to compare model court
user opinions with respect on various dimensions of the Argentine Justice before the implementation of
the model (2003) and at ex-post implementation (2005).




                                                 - 39 -

Additional Annex 14. Civil Court No. 74

This court was the recipient of the ISO 9000 certification

                           Indicadores de Gestión


    4
  3,5
    3
  2,5                                                                               2003
    2
  1,5                                                                               2004
    1
  0,5
    0



      Congest                                   Duración
                Descongest     Evacuación                     Sentencia
                                                        Tasa




     10
       9
       8
       7
       6
       5                                                                                                                2004
       4                                                                                                                2005
       3
       2
       1
       0

                                        to
                                                                                                              tencia
             duración
           de                                                            Evacuación         Apelación       Sen
                                                                       de                 de              de
     Indice              Congestionamien                                            Indice            Tasa
                       de                                        Indice
                                          Descongestionamiento
                 Indice                 de

                                  Indice




Source: UTE DDS Unitech. 2003 data from the court records. 2004 data partial year from the IURIX
and projected for the 12 month period. 2005 data from the IURIX system.




                                                                 - 40 -

- 41 -

