Page  1
March 30, 2000 
Mr. José Luis Machinea 
Ministro de Economía 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 4314-AR (Model Court Development Project) Amendment to 
the Loan Agreement and Implementation Letter
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated October 20, 
1998 (the Loan Agreement), and the related Implementation Letter of the same date, 
both with regard to the above-captioned Loan.  We are pleased to inform you that, 
pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to 
amend the Loan Agreement and Implementation Letter as set forth below.
1.
The term "Supreme Court", wherever it appears, is hereby replaced by the term 
"Judicial Council" (except with respect to Loan Agreement Section 3.04 (b), as amended 
below).
2.
Section 1.02 (c) is hereby amended by deleting the words "Supreme Court’s".
3.
Section 1.02 (d) (i) is hereby amended by replacing the words "Juzgado No. 1" 
with the words "Juzgado No. 2", and Section 1.02 (d) (iii) and (iv) are hereby 
replaced with the following:  "and (iii) up to ten other first instance federal courts 
of the Borrower, as may be agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank;".
4.
Section 1.02 (e) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
""Procurement Agency Agreement" means the agreement, referred to in Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement, between the Judicial Council and a procurement agent;".
5.
Section 1.02 (f) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: 
""Judicial Council" means the Borrower’s Consejo de la Magistratura, referred to in 
Article 114 of the Borrower’s Constitution and regulated by the Borrower’s Law no. 
24937, published in the Borrower’s Boletín Oficial (Official Gazette) on January 6, 
1998, as amended to the date of this Agreement;".
6.
Section 1.02 (g) is hereby amended by deleting the word "and" at the end 
thereof.
7.
Section 1.02 (h) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
""Executive Commission" means the commission referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this 
Agreement; and".
8.
A new Section 1.02 (i) is hereby inserted immediately after Section 1.02 (h), to 
read as follows in its entirety:  ""CAF" means the Judicial Council’s Comisión de 
Administración Financiera (Financial Administration Commission).".
9.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  "(a) The 
Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, or cause 
the Project to be carried out, through the Judicial Council and the Selected Courts, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and judicial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, or 
cause the Project to be carried out, through the Judicial Council and the Selected 
Courts, in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Implementation Letter and 
with the terms of the Operational Manual.  In case of any conflict between the terms 
Page  2
of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement 
shall prevail.
(c)
The Borrower may cause the Judicial Council to enter into an agreement 
with a procurement agent on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, whereby 
such agent agrees, as procurement agent and not as a Project executing entity, to:  
(i) procure goods, works and services required for the Project, in the name of and on 
behalf of the Judicial Council, during the complete course of Project implementation; 
and (ii) deliver such procured goods, works and services promptly to the Judicial 
Council and/or the Selected Courts as required for the Project.".
10.
Section 3.04 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  "The 
Borrower shall, throughout the course of Project implementation, maintain, or cause to 
be maintained, a Project coordination unit which shall:  (i) be responsible for 
coordinating implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (ii) have 
resources and staff satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) be headed by a Project manager 
working as such on a full-time basis, selected by the Executive Commission, and with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and (iv) report to the 
Executive Commission.".
11.
Section 3.04 (b) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  "The 
Borrower shall, throughout the course of Project implementation, maintain an ad hoc 
executive commission, composed of the head of CAF, the Borrower’s Secretary of Justice 
and a representative of the Borrower’s Supreme Court (together with, at the Borrower’s 
option, a representative of the Borrower’s Office of the Chief of Cabinet of 
Ministers), to provide policy advice and oversight to the PCU in connection with 
implementation of the Project.".
12.
Section 3.05 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  "The 
Borrower shall cause the Judicial Council to:
(a)
maintain an information system, policies and procedures adequate to 
enable the Judicial Council to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance 
with the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about each March 1 and September 1 during the course of Project 
implementation (beginning on September 1, 1998), a semestral report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the semester preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the semester following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by no later than each April 1 and October 1 during 
the course of Project implementation, or such later dates as the Bank shall request, 
the relevant semestral report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.".
13.
Section 3.06 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  "The 
Borrower shall cause the Judicial Council and the Selected Courts to commence 
implementation of Part A.2 of the Project for a particular Selected Court only after 
the Bank has approved, for that particular Selected Court, the pilot program designed 
pursuant to Part A.1 of the Project.".
14.
A new Article V is hereby inserted immediately after Article IV, to read as 
follows in its entirety:  
"Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Law no. 24937 of the Borrower, referred to in Section 1.02 (f) of this 
Page  3
Agreement, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not 
enforced so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Judicial Council to perform its role under the Project.
(b)
The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Judicial Council or for the 
suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.".
15.
Original Articles V and VI, and original Sections 5.01, 5.02, 6.01 and 6.02, are 
hereby redesignated as Articles VI and VII, and Sections 6.01, 6.02, 7.01 and 7.02, 
respectively. 
16.
Annex II to the Implementation Letter is hereby amended to read in its entirety 
as set forth in Attachment A hereto.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander 
Director, 
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ José Luis Machinea
Minister of Economy
Date:  July 19, 2000
