Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4314-AR
Loan Agreement
(Model Court Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 20, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4314-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 1998, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement, except that:
(a)
Section 6.03 of the General Conditions is modified to read:  "Section 
6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan 
for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at 
any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
Page  2
proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the 
Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant 
to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan 
shall be cancelled."; and
(b)
Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions is modified to read:  "Not 
later than six months prior to the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost 
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower 
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.". 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter, of even date herewith, entered 
into between the Borrower and the Bank with respect to the monitoring indicators and 
implementation schedule for the Project;
(b)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, issued 
by the Supreme Court (as hereinafter defined) and containing detailed guidelines, 
consistent with the terms of this Agreement, for implementation of the Project;
(c)
"PCU" means the Supreme Court’s Project coordination unit referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Selected Courts" means the following first instance federal courts of 
the Borrower:  (i) Juzgado No. 1 (Civil) Federal de Primera Instancia de Mar del Plata 
(Provincia de Buenos Aires) (hereinafter the "Mar del Plata Court"); (ii) Juzgado 
Federal de Primera Instancia de Resistencia (Provincia de Chaco) (hereinafter 
"Resistencia Court"); (iii) all ten Juzgados Nacionales de Primera Instancia de la 
Seguridad Social (hereinafter "Social Security Courts"); and (iv) up to five other 
first instance federal courts of the Borrower, as may be agreed in writing between the 
Borrower and the Bank;
(e)
"Procurement Agency Agreement" means the agreement, referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, between the Borrower, through the Supreme Court, 
and a procurement agent;
(f)
"Supreme Court" means the Borrower’s Corte Suprema de Justicia de la 
Nación, the highest court of the Argentine judicial system;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(h)
"Tripartite Commission" means the commission referred to in Section 3.04 
(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, an amount equal to five 
million Dollars ($5,000,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:  (A) one 
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through the Supreme Court and the Selected Courts, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
judicial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through the Supreme Court and 
the Selected Courts, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the schedule set 
forth in the Implementation Letter and with the terms of the Operational Manual.  In 
case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
(c)
The Borrower, through the Supreme Court, may enter into an agreement with 
a procurement agent on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, whereby such 
agent agrees, as procurement agent and not as a Project executing entity, to:  (i) 
procure goods, works and services required for the Project, in the name of and on 
behalf of the Supreme Court, during the complete course of Project implementation; and 
(ii) deliver such procured goods, works and services promptly to the Supreme Court 
and/or the Selected Courts as required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the Supreme Court, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months prior to the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Supreme Court, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Supreme Court on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, throughout the course of Project 
implementation, maintain within the Supreme Court a Project coordination unit which 
shall:  (i) be responsible for coordinating implementation, monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project; (ii) have resources and staff satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) be 
headed by a Project manager working as such on a full-time basis, selected by the 
Supreme Court, and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iv) report to the Tripartite Commission.
(b)
The Borrower shall, throughout the course of Project implementation, 
maintain an ad hoc tripartite commission, composed of representatives of the Supreme 
Court, the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice and the Borrower’s Office of the Chief of 
the Cabinet of Ministers, to provide policy advice and oversight to the PCU in 
connection with implementation of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall, through the Supreme Court:
(a)
maintain an information system, policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about each March 1 and September 1 during the course of Project 
implementation (beginning on September 1, 1998), a semestral report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the semester preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the semester following such date; and
Page  5
(c)
review with the Bank, by no later than each April 1 and October 1 during 
the course of Project implementation, or such later dates as the Bank shall request, 
the relevant semestral report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through the Supreme Court and the Selected Courts, 
shall commence implementation of Part A.2 of the Project for a particular Selected 
Court only after the Bank has approved, for that particular Selected Court, the pilot 
program designed pursuant to Part A.1 of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the Supreme Court and the 
Selected Courts in respect of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account,  for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Operational Manual has been issued by the Supreme Court and is 
Page  6
in effect;
(b)
that the PCU shall have been established and is operational with the 
Project manager referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; and
(c)
that the information system (including financial management system), 
policies and procedures for monitoring and evaluating the Project, referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, shall have been established and such system is 
functioning.
Section 5.02. The date January 20, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI),
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
 50,000
85%
(2)
Goods
    1,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultant services,
    2,350,000
100%
procurement agent fees,
audits and training
(4)
Unallocated
    1,500,000
TOTAL                 5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the 
twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after December 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts covered by the terms of 
Part D.3 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to upgrade training of Argentine judges and 
court personnel of various courts, identify needed reforms in the administration of 
Argentine courts, design methods to achieve such reforms, apply such methods in the 
Selected Courts and evaluate the results of such application, all for the purpose of 
improving the capacity of judges and court staff, for improving administration of the 
Selected Courts and for using the Selected Courts as models for subsequent possible 
broader administrative reforms in the Argentine judiciary as a whole.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Court Management
1.
Design of a pilot program to improve the organizational structure and processes 
of, and court and case management in, the Selected Courts, such design to be arrived 
at by:  (a) developing strategies for communication among, and monitoring and 
evaluation of performance in, the Selected Courts; (b) carrying out a series of 
baseline studies and analytical work (and acquiring and using equipment in support of 
such studies and work) on the current operation of the Selected Courts with regard to 
Page  8
maintenance of statistics, records management, archives, information systems, human 
resources, procedural and administrative processes, organizational structure, physical 
space and any factors identified as leading to administrative inefficiency; (c) 
carrying out a study on the operational costs of the Selected Courts including costs 
to the litigants; and (d) preparing a case delay reduction program based on diagnostic 
work and on a complete inventory of pending cases.
2.
Implementation of the pilot program designed pursuant to Part A.1 of the 
Project, such implementation to include minor Selected Court remodeling works, 
acquisition and utilization of office equipment and the design and operation of 
information systems.
Part B:
Judicial Skills Development
1.
Development of an educational policy for federal judges and federal court staff, 
including a training needs assessment.
2.
Carrying out of a training program for:  (a) judges in the Selected Courts and 
other federal judges on new case management techniques, judicial discretion, 
leadership, management of change and any other subjects, agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank, relevant to the successful implementation of the pilot program referred 
to in Part A of the Project; and (b) court personnel in the Selected Courts and other 
courts on new case management techniques, information technology, records management, 
development of formats, preparation of budgets and any other subjects, agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank, relevant to the successful implementation of the pilot 
program referred to in Part A of the Project. 
3.
Carrying out of an evaluation of the results of the training program referred to 
in Part B.2 of the Project.
Part C:
Evaluation and Dissemination
1.
Design and operation of information centers (including the acquisition and 
utilization of office furniture and equipment and the carrying out of minor works in 
support of such centers) in each of the Selected Courts for purposes of providing 
information to court users on court processes and of addressing complaints from such 
users.
2. 
Carrying out of public opinion surveys related to the functioning of the pilot 
program referred to in Part A of the Project.
3.
Carrying out of workshops and seminars with selected representatives of the 
judiciary and civil society to disseminate the objectives and results of the Project 
and the results of the public opinion surveys referred to in Part C.2 of the Project.
4.
Carrying out of:  (a) a study  to evaluate the results of the pilot program 
referred to in Part A of the Project and its potential replication in other courts and 
to review the procedural rules that govern juicios ejecutivos (summary trials); and 
(b) seminars with selected members of the judiciary and civil society to discuss the 
results of said study.
Part D:
Project Administration
Operation of the PCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 2003
through May 15, 2013
250,000
Page  9
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Works
Page  10
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to 
a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Part B of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under Part C.1 or Part C.2 of this 
Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower, through the 
Supreme Court, shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, the Borrower, through 
the Supreme Court, shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
(including procurement agency services covered by the Procurement Agency Agreement) 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The short list of consultants for services, procured under the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph and estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for Parts B.3 and C.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  11
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
selected pursuant to Part B of this Section and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
selected pursuant to Part B of this Section and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
To award contracts below the thresholds set forth in paragraphs 2 (a) and 
(c) of this Part, prior review and approval by the Bank of terms of reference shall be 
required.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  12
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  13
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
