Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR. Is-aN W
Report No. P-3981-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 4.9 MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR THE
IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT
March 4, 1985
This document has a restrided disribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
ther official duties. Its contents may not otherise be diselad without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1984)
US$1.00 - Rwandese franc (RwF) 102.2
RwF 100 - US$0.97
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADETEF     -  Association pour le Developpement des Echanges en Technologie
Economique et Financiare (Association for the Development of
Technical Exchange in Economics and Finance)
BNR        -  Banque Nationale du Rwanda (National Bank of Rwanda)
CFP        -  Centre de Formation Professionnelle (Training Center)
CIC        -  Comite Interministeriel de Coordination (Interministerial
Coordinating Committee)
DTCD       -  Department of Technical Cooperation for Development
EEC        -  European Economic Community
IAC        -  Comite Consultatif InterTinist6riel (Interministerial
Advisory Committee)
MINIFINECO -  Ministare des Finances et de l'Economie (Ministry of Finance
and Economy,
MINIFOPE   -  Ministare de la Fonction Publique et de la Formation
Professionnelle (Public Administration and Vocational
Training Ministry)
MINIPLAN   -  Ministare du Plan (Planning Ministry)
MINISUPRES -  Minist8re de l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche
(Higher Education and Research Ministry)
ONAPO      -  Office National de la Population (National Population Office)
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Program
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                =          3.3   feet
1 hectare                  =          2.47  acres
1 are (100 m2)             =          0.02  acre
1 kilometer (km)           =          0.62  mile
1 are (100 m2)             =          0.01  hectare
1 square kilometer (km2)  =           0.39  square miles (sq. mi.)
I kilogram (kg)            =          2.2   pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                =          0.26  US gallons (gal)
1 metric ton {m ton)       =          2,204 pounds (lb)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
Technical Assistance Project
for
Improvement of Public Finance Management
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Rwandese Republic
Amount:           SDR 4.9 million (US$ 4.8 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms
Beneficiary:     Ministry of Finance and Economy
Project:          Objective.  The Government's main objective is to improve,
through the project, its control over public finance. To
that end, the project will aim at:
(a) training (i) staff in MINIFINECO and (ii)
financial managers in technical ministries,
parastatals, and development projects;
(b) improving procedures for budget preparation and
execution (including financial management of the
parastatal sector); and
(c) strengthening Government capabilities for economic
policy making.
Content. Proposed project components would be:
(a) training for MINIFINECO staff and for financial
managers in other ministries and selected parastatal
agencies through (i) establishment of a Training
Center in MINIFINECO, and (ii) remedial training for
current staff;
(b) improvement of tax, customs, budgetary and accounting
procedures through (i) technical assistance (one
budgetary procedures and budget management specialist
for three years, one public accounting specialist for
two years, and short backstopping missions); and
(ii) phased introduction of automated data processing
(hardware, software, training, one computer
specialist for three years, and one programmer for
two years);
(c) improvement of financial management of the parastatal
sector portfolio (one business management specialist
for three years);
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peormanem of r
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
(d) improvement of economic policy-making (provision of
short-term consultant cervices); and
(e) vehicles and equipment.
Benefits:          At the end of the project period, Government should have
improved control over the budgetary process, from
resource constraint identification to unoitoring of
budget execution. The introduction of computers should
help to produce timely indicators, and improvements in
policy-making should help put this 'nformation to better
use in the adoption of adjustment measures. Training
activities, which would have a measurable output, should
help to remedy the current lack of skills, and to provide
a steady stream of competent staff for the future. The
establishment of the Training Center should help to
introduce objective criteria for the recruitment and
promotion of financial staff. It might serve as an
important building block in the creation of an
appropriate institution for civil service training.
Finally, support to the CIC mechanism should help
strengthen interministerial coordination.
Risks:             The major risks are linked to the speed with which
reforms will be approved and implemented. In particular,
the introduction of significant changes in the
recruitment and promotion of financial staff is a
delicate operation, which might encounter difficulties.
Project preparation has aimed at minimizing such
potential difficulties. MINIFINECO staff, from working
level up to the Minister, is aware and supportive of the
project, and key officials plsyed a major role in
ensuring a simple and realistic design, matching
technical requirements and perceived needs. Terms of
reference for the advisers were prepared by those who
would work with them. Training activities were identified
with Directors and concerned staff. Twinning arrangements
should provide backstopping by a mature entity, with
extensive experience in specialized training and in
meeting the special needs of sub-Saharan African
countries.



(iii)
Estimated Project Costs:
ForeiEn   Local   Total
(US$ thousand equivalent)
Training Center                190      720      910
Remedial Trafiing              650       50      700
Long-term Advisers           1,500      370    1,870
Backstopping Missions           90       10      100
Short-term Consultants         310       80      390
Computerization                480       50      530
Vehicles and Equipment         100      120      220
Total Base Costs 1/        3,320    1,400    4,720
Contingencies                370      200      570
of which:  Price            320      180      500
Physical         50        20       70
Total Project Costs 2/    3,690    1,600    5,290
Financing Plan
Foreign   Local   Total
(US$ thousand equivalent)
IDA                    3,690      1,110   4,800
Government               -          490     490
Total                  3,690      1,600   5,290
Estimated Disbursements 3/
IDA Fiscal Year
(USS thousand equivalent)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Annual        200   1,200   1,500      800     600     500
Cumulative    200   1,400   2,900   3,700   4,300   4,800
Appraisal Report: No appraisal report was prepared for this project.
Rate of Return: n.a.
Map:    IBRD 14634
1.   Taxes included in the project costs are negligible as all items
would be exempt from import duties and local taxes.
2.   Including refinancing of the US$ 450,000 PPF advance.
3.   The disbursement profile for Technical Assistance in the Eastern
and Southern Affrica Region is 10 years, with a 5 year median. A
six-year profile has been retained since (i) uon-consultant related
activities are to take place at the onset of the project; and (ii)
consultant contracts would have a maximum duration of three years,
with recruitment currently under way (PPF financing).



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Rwandese Republic for the equivalent of SDRs 4.9
million (TJS$ 4.8 million) on standard IDA terms, to help finance a
Technical Assistance Project for the Improvement of Public Finance
Management.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4059-RW) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1983 which discussed
economic developments in Rwanda until that date. These developments,
updated when possible, are summarized below. Country data are provided in
Annex I.
3.        Rwanda's salient characteristics include its small size, an
annual population growth rate of 3.7 percent (ranking among the highest in
Africa), a population density (in terms of agricultural land) of about 390
per square Km (slightly higher than that of India but about four times that
of Zaire and about eight times that of Tanzania), hilly terrain and high
average altitude, a landlocked position, lack of natural resources
(including shortage of arable land), underdeveloped physical and
institutional infrastructure, and a very low level of development as
measured by a variety of social as well as economic indicators. These
indicators include a per capita income of about US$270 (1983), among the
lowest in the world; an average life expectancy of 44 years; and an adult
literacy rate of 40 percent.
4.        The country is heavily dependent on agricultural exports (coffee,
tea, pyrethrum, cinchona) which provide 75 percent of its foreign exchange
earnings. Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and the growth of modern
manufacturing is limited by the small size of the market and the lack of
raw materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial skills, and qualified
manpower. The country, consequently, imports capital goods, steel,
petroleum products, cement and other construction materials, and virtually
every modern consumer product. Its merchandise trade is hampered by high
transportation costs and dependence on neighboring countries for access to



-2-
the sea ports of Mombasa and Dar-es-Salaam.
5.        Despite these constraints, Rwanda has made a creditable effort
toward economic and social development. During the 1976-80 period, the
country managed to satisfy its subsistence needs and to make important
advances not only in agriculture but in other fields such as education,
health, water supply, and small-scale industry. It succeeded in building
basic transport and communication infrastructure and set in place a state
administrative apparatus serious about development. These achievements
reflect the Government's commitment to economic and social progress, as
well as its prudent fiscal, balance-of-payments and debt management
policies. At the same time, Rwanda has been able to attract substantial
volumes of external aid from a great diversity of sources, confirming donor
perceptions Ehat Government is indeed development-oriented and is pursuing
generally appropriate objectives. The Government's efforts during this
period were significantly helped by favorable weather conditions and the
coffee boom of the late 1970's.
6.        Achievement and good fortune notwithstanding, development efforts
in Rwanda have not alleviated the fundamental problems which continue to
compromise development -,rospects: population growth, increasingly at odds
with land availability, an undiversified economic structure, Government's
limited capacity to provide social services, and the economy's inability to
generate jobs either outside or within the rural sector. Though foodcrop
output has increased sufficiently to feed the growing population, it has
done so at a cost to the land's long-term fertility. Agricultural land use
in Rwanda has reached a point where there is little fallow or grazing area
left. The rapidly growing population has resulted in serious
deforestation, accompanying erosion, and impelled the cultivation of
marginal lands with a fragile ecology. Concomitant with these adverse
trends has been a deterioration of nutritional standards induced by the
shift to traditional high-yield, high-calorie, but low-protein crops. The
limited success of Government's efforts has been largely due to the
country's structural constraints (among them the critical population
problem), institutional weaknesses (stemming largely from lack of skilled
personnel), and insufficiency of domestic financial resources. At the same
time, the lack of skilled personnel, fragmentation of institutional
responsibilities, and poor interagency coordination have limited the
country's capacity to absorb external resources.
7.        The Rwandese authorities have taken steps to address these
problems.  Of particular importance have been actions concerned with the
extremely rapid population growth, and the lack of education and training.
In 1981, the Government established the National Population Office (ONAPO)
to plan, coordinate, and monitor all population activities. ONAPO has
started to sensitize the population about the implications of excessive
demographic pressure on the country's limited resources; a few pilot family



- 3 -
planning programs have been set up; and a nationwide fertility survey, now
completed, is expected to provide valuable information on the potential
demand for family planning. Obviously, the impact of these measures will
be felt only in the long run. To address the problem of lack of education
snd training, the Government introduced an education reform in 1979 whose
objectives are appropriate to the country's needs, but whose implementation
has been hampered by financial constraints and the lack of teachers.
8.         A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's recent economic performance
can only be tentative, as the national account estimates havre serious
shortcomings. These estimates suggest that, compared to the period of
1978-1980, during which the GDP grew by about 6 percent, a period of slower
growth seems to have begun in 1982, mainly because of a slackening of the
agricultural sector performance, and a fall in export prices. Provisional
data for 1982 indicate that real GDP grew by 4.0 percent largely as a
result of a substantial expansion in construction and public works,
commerce and other private services. Manufacturing performed
satisfactorily owing mainly to the expansion of productive capacity.
However, mining continued the decline that started in 1980 due to
persistent financial and management problems. The services sector expanded
by over 19 percent, reflecting the impact of the increase in salaries (in
1981), the development of transport and communications, and the expansion
of urban Kigali. Economic growth slowed down to 3.5 percent in 1983,
following a moderate drought. Agricultural value added increased only
marginally, with the rise in the production of export crops offsetting, in
part, a shortfall in the foodcrop sector. As in 1982, construction and
services continued to expand, while the mining sector deteriorated further.
9.         Rwanda's external position came under strong pressure in the last
few years, as the volume of imports continued to expand at a time wIen
export earnings were declining. The main difficulty arose from successive
shortfalls in coffee export earnings during 1981-1983. Since 1981, the
total value of exports has been consistently well below previous levels,
reflecting the decline in world coffee prices. The terms of trade
deteriorated drastically (by about 44 percent) between 1979 and 1983.
Moreover, the exports of the principal mining company (SOMIRWA), a large
proportion of which is denominated in Belgian francs, have been adversely
affected by the relative appreciation of the Rwandese franc vis-a-vis the
currency of major trad.ng partners (about 45 percent in real terms between
1980 and 1983). Demand for imports continued to increase during this
period mainly because of this appreciation. As a result, the external
current account registered a record deficit equivalent to about 13 percent
of GDP in both 1981 and 1982. In 1983, the deficit was reduced to about 10
percent of GDP through implementation of a number of measures. These
include: tightening of procedures for granting import licenses and
intensification of restrictions on current international payments and
,.



-4-
transfers; introducticn of an advance import deposit requirement scheme on
luxury goods carrying high import duties as well as on goods competing with
local products; and shifting the peg of the Rwandese franc (in September
1983) from the US dollar to the SDR, entailing a 5 percent depreciation
vis-a-vis the US dollar.
10.       On the budgetary side, Government tailed to realize that the high
level of tax revenues recorded in 1979 and 1980 was a temporary phenomenon
not justifying the accompanying increase in expenditures. This failure
reflected a major weakness in the assessment of resource availability and
prospects. As a result, during the period 1981-1983, the sharp decline in
revenues from coffee export taxes, together with increases in current
outlays led to an overall budgetary deficit equivalent to 4 percent of GDP
in both 1982 and 1983 (as compared to a surplus of 0.9 percent in 1980).
Concern over the worsening budgetary situation in 1982 and 1983 led
Government to introduce corrective fiscal measures. In the 1984 budget,
the growth of current expenditures (in nominal terms) was limited to 2.3
percent (compared to 35.7 and 9.7 percent in 1980 and 1981, respectively).
The growth of public sector employment was to be held under 0.5 percent
(the education sector was exempted in order to achieve the revised targets
of the 1979 Education Reform). This represents a major break from
Government's past policy of practically "guaranteeing" employment to every
secondary-school graduate. The budget also provided for a large reduction
in net lending to parastatals. Henceforth, state enterprises of a
commercial or industrial nature (except SOMIRWA) will not be granted
budgetary subsidies and will have to resort to commercial bank financing.
On the revenue side, the 1984 budget provided for an increase of 12
percent, mainly reflecting an upward revision of import duties on luxury
goods and a more progressive tax structure on wages. Information on the
implementation of the budget is not yet available.
1I.       Government has been traditionally conservative in its monetary
and credit policies. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply
shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through
neighboring countries, higL international transport costs, and increased
prices of imports and seasonal fluctuations in the price of domestic
foodstuffs. Inflation averaged 8 percent per annum during 1970-83; it
peaked at 12.6 percent in 1982, reflecting mainly the substantial increases
in electricity and water tariffs and educational fees.
12.       Rwanda has been one of the most favored benef.ciaries of foreign
aid in recent years. Per capita, disbursements of net official development
assistance (ODA) have been above US$30, much larger than for Africa as a
whole. The country was also able to attract substantial amounts of
grants. During the period 1981-82, grants comprised 82 percent of total
external aid flows, and were provided mainly by Belgium, the Federal



Republic of Germany, and France,  In view of its level of development,
Rwanda will need external assistance for'a long time to come. Even
maintaining per capita income at the curlent low level -- a very modest
objective indeed -- will require a continuation of assistance at least at
the current level, given population growth and exports constraints. The
donor community should make efforts to increase its assistance, provided
Rwanda pursues sound macro-economic, sectoral (particularly in
agriculture), and population policies.
13.       Rwanda's medium- and long-term external public debt is relatively
small, amounting to US$225 million at end-1983, equivalent to 14 percent of
GDP. Most of Rwanda's external debt was contracted on highly concessionary
terms; the grant element was over 70 percent on average during the 1972-83
period. Due to the concessionary nature of these loans, the debt service
payments on medium- and long-term debt are relatively low: 4.5 percent of
exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1983. Hence, there remains
scope for further borrowing. However, given the poverty of the country,
its overwhelming constraints and vulnerability, and its unfavorable
terms-of-trade prospects, external funds should continue to be provided 'a
the form of grants or loans at highly concessionary terms, and include a
high proportion of local cost financing and non-project assistance.
PART II - BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE
14.       Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on
the improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agriculture
production. To the present, Rwanda has received twenty-one IDA credits
totalling US$217 million: seven fcr agriculture (37 percent); five for
roads (32 percent of the total); three for DFC projects (7.5 percent); two
for education (8.3 percent); one for telecommunications (3.5 percent); one
for technical assistance (2.3 percent); one for water supply (6 percent)
and one for power (4.2 percent)l/. There have been no Bank loans. Two
IFC loans (one of US$535,000 for a tea factory; a second of US$226,000 with
contingent equity commitment of up to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory)
were signed in 1976 and 1980, respectively. Annex II contains a stmmary
statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1984.
15.       In fiscal years 1982-84, disbursements for Rwanda totalled
US$49.1 million compared to new commitments of US$86.2 million. In the
1/   This latter does not include the US$15.0 million credit which
represents Rwanda's share of the Ruzizi II regional hydroelectric
project benefitting Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire and which was signed on
April 4, 1984.



-6-
which yields an average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in
disbursement to undisbursed balance) of 19 percent; this is about average
for countries of the Eastern and Southern African Regional Office.
16.       Our lending has been based on a country strategy which has
emphasized: (i) agriculture and rural development, the main objective
being to increase food production as well as export crops, while
maintaining soil fertility; (ii) human resources, focusing on support to
basic education and skills training to improve agricultural productivity,
provide skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the population issue,
and, more recently, on family programs per se; (iii) infrastructure
development, particularly roads, to reduce the country's isolation and to
provide incentives to further intensification of agriculture as well as
increased specialization and diversification through better marketing; and
(iv) energy, to lessen the demand for fuel imports and mitigate their
impact on the balance of payments.
17.       One of the major constraints to Rwanda's development is the
shortage of technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors and
inhibits project preparation and implementation. Intensive technical
assistance and on-the-job training of Rwandese staff are therefore a
salient feature of the Bank's program for Rwanda, both under individual
projects in the various sectors, and through a free standing Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1217-RW declared effective November 22, 1982).
To date, implementation of this project is quite satisfactory (para. 25).
The project has strengthened inter-ministerial coordination, provided
training to staff in the studies units of concerned agencies, and
contributed to improve the preparation process for the next five-year
plan.
18.       Our over-all strategy has been pursued in a climate of good
relations with Government. In agriculture, improved sector management as
well as more rigorous project planning and financial controls have been
results of Bank Group encouragement and support. Our evolution away from
integrated rural development schemes towards more directly productive
projects has engaged Government's ultimate acceptance. In the highway
sector, our active dialogue with the Ministry of Public Works and Energy is
now focusing on the need to reduce reliance upon expatriate expertise; in
the area of industrial development, we have gained Government's commitment
to promote small-scale enterprise. Only in the education sector did
serious difficulties arise centering on two misprocurements (some six years
ago) and also on overly ambitious education reform proposals at the primary
level. A much more positive dialogue with the Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education (MINIPRISEC) has emerged in the past three years and
now prevails; MINIPRISEC has adopted a less costly and lengthy primary
cycle. In summary, our cooperation with Rwanda in all sectors in which we
are active can be characterized by a general receptivity to our advice and



an ultimate willingness to take action where suggested. This point is
illustrated especially by our experience with the education reforms at the
primary level already referred, and with the especially critical question
of population growth, where our initially cautious approach to Government
on the subject has developed to cooperative promotion of population/family
health and planning programs.
19.       Bank Group strategy today continues to center on the four sectors
mentioned above (para. 16), with special emphasis on agriculture and
population. For the former, we give priority to: (i) promote
intensification by developing and strengthening Rwanda's agricultural
research and extension capabilities; and (ii) reinforce the key sector
institutions -- the Rwandese Research Institute and the Ministry of
Agriculture. In the population sector, our program invites intensified
collaboration with the National Population Office (para. 6 -the agency
responsible for designing and promoting educational programs and service
delivery systems for family planning), and support to maternal/child health
initiatives through the Ministry of Health, recently reorganized, to
participate more effectively in executing efforts to deal with Rwanda's
bourgeoning population problem.
20.       In light of external factors for which Rwanda must develop
appropriate policy responses, however, we believe the time appropriate to
give a mora systematic macro-economic dimension to our operational and ESW
work and to our accompanying dialogue with Government. Rwandese
authorities have recently indicated a readiness to proceed with the
preparation of an economic recovery program ("Programme de Relance-);
Government's request for Bank assistance in formulating this program of
comprehensive economic adjustment measures also attests to its
responsiveness to Bank Group advice.  We intend to support this effort
through increased ESW activity, and such heightened interaction as is
suggested by the proposed Technical Assistance Project for the Improvement
of Public Finance Management.



- 8 -
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT IN RWANDA
21.      The latest CEM (May 1983) showed that the policy framework and
instruments of policy which appear to have served Rwandese development in
the late 1970s will not be adequate or appropriate to meet the challenges
of changed circumstances in the latter part of the 1980s. The country
remains highly vulnerable to its less favorable external environment, which
it needs to mDnitor closely so as to react and adjust quickly.
Institutional weaknesses, however, have to be addressed before Rwanda i8 in
a position to dct es.
22.      Given the importance the public sector continues to play in the
economy, improving the management of public finance is a high priority.
The current situation in this area highlights some of the major weaknesses:
(a)  linkages bt..ween the Five-year Plan (1982-1986) and public
investment programs are weak. Even though the current r1an
attempted some sectoral programming for the first time in the
country's history, the value of this largely qualitative
exercise was limited by the lack of reliable estimates of
resource availability, the absence of clear sector
strategies, and the scarcity of well selected projects. This
translates into low completion rates of planned targets,
inadequate prioritization of investments, and inefficient
allocation of scarce resources;
(b) the budgetary process lacks comprehensiveness. In
particular, recurrent expenditures created by Investments,
and the financial impact of the parastatal sector are not
fully captured. This reqults, inter alia, from outdated
procedures, from the dual nature of the budget, divided
between recurrent and investment expenditures (each handled
by a separate Ministry), from the lack of systematic
recording of donor-financed investments, and from the absence
of a multi-year framework to link investment programs and
their budgetary consequences (para. 27); and
(c) the public finance impact of changes in Rwanda's economic
environment (domestic and external) is not properly
anticipated. Instead, adjustments are slowly made after the
fact. Economic policy-making capacity is still nascent.
23.      Three main factors contribute to these weaknesses:
(a) inter-ministerial coordination; (b) budgetary procedures; and (c)
personnel issues.



-9-
Inter-ministerial Coordination
24.      Though the situation is improving, information does not circulate
easily between Ministries, and sometimes within ministries. The poor
availability of statistics is one of the consequences. Another is the
absence of a clearly defined and executed development strategy. For
example, the Ministry of Planning (MINIPLAN) is not always informed of
projects negotiated directly by technical ministries, and cannot, as a
result, ensure their adequacy with approved priorities, or properly monitor
the development budgpt. And the Ministry of Finance and Economy does not
control personnel expenditures in the Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education, which has led to chronic overspending by this department.
25.      The Government, with IDA and UNDP assistance, has begun to correct
the situation. Implementation of the IDA-financed Technical Assistance
project to MINIPLAN (Credit 1217-RW) is satisfactcry, and the project is
meeting its institutional objectives. An Iwverminis':erial Advisory (IAC)
Committee, regrouping the studies units of all ministries, meets regularly
to approve the studies needed to prepare new projects. While this may have
somewhat restricted the opportunities for technical ministries to approach
donors directly with project ideas, and perhaps slowed down approval of
some new projects, it has (a) promoted the establishment and enforcement of
priorities; (b) facilitated inter-ministerial communications; (c)
introduced greater coordination and discipline; and (d) improved the
quality of the projects submitted to donors, and thus the probability of
their approval. The project is also financing a series of local
residential seminars on the project cycle, and on the evaluation of the
p'anning process in Rwanda for staff (about 30 people) of the studies units
in all concerned agencies. The seminars are having a positive impact on
sectoral planning, project identification, and the overall planning process
(para. 30).
26.      Experience with the IAC, and discussion of the latest economic
memorandum contributed to convince Government of the need further to
improve internal coordination.  On October 12, 1984, a presidential
directive set up seven Interministerial Coordinating Committees (CIC)2.
2/       The seven CIC are: (i) Rural Development and Health (Ministry of
Agriculture as chair); (ii) Economic Policy (Ministry of Finance
and Economy as chair); (iii' Industrial Policy (Ministry of
Industries, Mines, and Crafts as chair); (iv) Housing, Urbanism,
and Regional Development (Ministry of Public Wbrks and Energy as
chair); (v) Political and Security Matters (Ministry of Interior
and Communal Development as chair); (vi) Training, Employment, and
Youth Promotion (Ministry of Public Administration and Training as
chair); and (vii) Planning and International Cooperation (Ministry
of Planning as chair).



- 10 -
Each CIC is chaired by a Minister, and functions at two levels; a political
decision-making level (ministers), and a technical level. The Studies
Directorate of the chairing ministry is the CIC's technical
secretariat. Our experience with Rwandese institutions, and early
indications on the CIC's start up activities, suggest that these
coordinating structures may become a useful policy making and economic
management tool. Though all CIC's will play an economic policy-making role,
two are particularly concerned with economic management issues:
(a)  the CIC on Economic Policy:  chaired by the Ministry of
Finance and Economy (MINIFINECO), it includes the Ministry of
Industry, Mines, and Crafts, the Ministry of Transport and
Communications, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of
Planning, and the National Bank of Rwanda. This CIC will (i)
define financial, tariffs, budgetary, commercial, credit, and
price policies; (ii) propose measures to improve economic
management, and in particular the balance of payments
situation; (iii) define budgetary procedures; (iv) define
public debt management policies; (v) define policies toward
the parastatal sector; and (vi) review economic reports
submitted by various sectors; and
(b)  the CTC on Planning and International Cooperation:  chaired
by the Planning Ministry (MINIPLAN), it includes the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and
Economy, and the National Bank of Rwanda. It will, inter
alia, (i) cocrdinate policies in the areas of planning,
international cooperation, and technical assistance; (ii)
harmonize statistics and surveys; (iii) program public
investments and yearly development budgets; (iv) coordinate
the planning activities of ministries and local
administrative units (prefectures and communes); and (v)
synthesize sectoral strategies.
Budgetary Procedures
27.      The importance of improving the budgetary process to make it a
public sector management tool is clearly recognized by MINIFINECO. The
Ministry has begum to study and adopt ways in which the public finance
system (which dates back to 1936 for some of its main features) could be
revamped. This would imply changes in two key areas:
(a)  Policy:  changes in tax and customs policies are necessary to
improve domestic resources mobilization. Recommendations
from an IMF mission (April 1983) have been reviewed by
Government, and some tentatively approved. After further
consultations with the IMF, Government will implement reforms



- 11 -
in the tax and customs system, and the Fund will provide
technical assistance to help implement them.
(b)  Structure and Procedures:
A.   Conceptually, the current budgetary structure is
characterized by a double dichotomy: (i) a distinction
between the ordinary (or recurrent) budget prepared by
MINIFINECO and the development (or investment) budget
prepared by the Ministry of Planning (MINIPLAN) and
considered a residual budget; and (ii) a distinction
between foreign financed investment expenditures which
are not budgeted and local investment expenditures
(either local contribution to donor financed projects or
national projects) which are the only ones budgeted. In
addition, existing accounting practices (in particular,
the absence of cost accounting) limit MINIFINECO's
ability to control the nature and appropriateness of
public expenditures. Finally, financial transactions
with the parastatal sector are not properly monitored
and/or accounted for;
B.   Mechanically, (in terms of budget preparation and
execution), existing procedures are cumbersome, do not
facilitate checking of expenditures against their
purpose, create delays in the availability of public
accounts, and are (by necessity) overly centralized.
28.      Operationally, three areas need to receive particular attention:
(a)  budgeting and expenditure control:  the procedures for
preparation and execution of both the ordinary budget
(recurrent expenditures) and the development budget
(investments), need to be improved as well as linkages
between the two budgets;
(b) resource mobilization: tax and customs administration, and
economic policy making (tariffs, exchange rate, taxes) need
strengthening; and
(c) financial management of the parastatal sector ought to be
improved, so as to reduce the sector's burden on the budget.
Personnel Issues
29.      Many of the deficiencies described above can be traced to the lack
of skilled staff in all ministries. The difficulty in identifying sector



- 12 -
strategies and appropriate projects, the acceptance of outdated (but
tested) procedures, the lack of communications among various entities, and
the dependence on foreign advisers (often pursuing contradictory goals)
result, in part, from the absence of skilled Rwandese staff who feel
assertive enough to propose changes, and to enter into a healthy
professional dialogue across institutional boundaries. In turn this
situation tends to lead people to repetition of routine tasks, and to a
lack of confidence in considering, much less adopting, new procedures and
processes.  Nowhere is this syndrome more evident than in the area of
economic policy-making (in particular on the exchange rate issue).
30.      The situation can, however, be improved through the design of
appropriate training activities. For example, Government, with the
Association's assistance, has organized seminars in Rwanda on project
identification and on the planning process which have helped address some
of the weaknesses in the planning system (para. 25). These seminars,
regrouping personnel from all ministries, and combining theory and
practice, have also contributed to a better flow of information, and to
better coordination. Cogent criticisms of the existing situation have been
voiced, remedies proposed, and adopted.
31.      Present procedures for hiring, assigning, and promoting civil
servants exacerbate the lack of skills. The links between academic
background and assignments are not always systematic (though the situation
is Improving with the increase in the number of graduates); nor are career
paths clearly defined. Personnel management in the civil service is
centralized, and appointments are sometimes motivated by non-technical
criteria. The existing system can only be gradually changed over time
through the progressive introduction of more systematic and clearer
procedures, based on objective and known criteria.
Bank Group Strategy
32.      The first technical assistance project focussed on improving the
project preparation process, and on launching a basis for investment
programming. Its training component has sensitized working level staff to
the issues discussed in this report. Project related technical assistance
in sectoral projects (agriculture, highways, education) pays special
attention to management and budgetary issues. Pressed by a deteriorating
external environment, Government is now keenly aware of the need to improve
public finance management, and in particular the budgetary process. Bank
Group strategy in this area is to help Government reach four key
objectives:
(a) to achieve comprehensiveness and transparency of public
accounts;



- 13 -
(b) to improve and integrate the budgetary and the planning
processes (preparation of multi-year public expenditure
programs);
(c) to strengthen the internal coherence of the budget; and
(d) to help Government gain better control over resource
constraints.
33.      This is obviously a long-term effort which needs to be
operationalized by taking into account absorptive capacity constraints, and
Government's own priorities. The first technical assistance project, the
project now under preparation to strengthen agricultural services, and in
particular, the Ministry of Agriculture's budgetary and financial
management functions, the training component of the next highway project,
and the project proposed here are building blocks in this strategy. They
tend to focus on some key issues, of which Government is by now
sufiiciently aware, and are designed as a series of complementary
activities (para. 36), emphazising the same general themes of rigorous
management, training, and institutional strengthening. Though success in
this area is essentially of a qualitative nature, and thus difficult to
measure, Bank Group efforts aim at helping Government render economic and
financial decision-making more systematic, more purposeful, more informed,
and more coordinated.
34.      The proposed project would focus essentially on improving
budget'ng and expenditure control, since the other priority areas of
resource mobilization and financial management of the parastatal sector
(para. 28) already receive assistance from other sources. The proposed
project would, however, complement this assistance as follows:
(a) Resource mobilization receives technical assistance from
Belgium and Switzerland (tax administration), and the IMF has
made recommendations which it is prepared to help Government
implement through appropriate technical assistance to the tax
directorate. The proposed project would provide training for
tax and customs personnel (using technical assistance
personnel from all sources as trainers); and
(b) Improvements in the accounting and management systems of
Rwanda's parastatals are being addressed by an EEC financed
project which will, inter alia, help to produce better
information on which to base financial decisions about the
parastatal sector (Government equity participation, budget
transfers, liquidation, etc.). The proposed pruject would
strengthen the financial analysis and management review
capabilities of MINIFINECO's unit responsible for making use
of this improved information, when it becomes available.
35.      The improvement of economic policy-making would be addressed by
the proposed project through short-term assistance to the CIC on Economic



- 14 -
Policy, which would also play   major role in steering budgetary reforms.
Improvements in the coordinatio.& between MINIFINECO and MINIPLAN for
integrating the planning and the budgetary processes would be sought
outside the confines of the proposed project. hhile it would still be
necessary to strengthen MINIPLAN's capabilities for preparation and
execution of the development budget, it would not be administratively
desirable to include this assistance under a project to be implemented
essentially by MINIFINECO. Instead, a Bank staff member would be seconded
to MINIPLAN under the Program of Technical Assistance to IDA Countries, and
would focus on investment and public expenditure programing. Strengthening
MINIPLAN's capabilities in the budget area would facilitate the development
of a healthy technical dialogue between MINIFINECO and MINIPLAN.
36.      In line with the importance ascribed to the development of skills,
the proposed project would place special emphasis on training. In general,
project activities have been designed, and would be executed, with a view
to complementing and strengthening on-going or planned technical assistance
in related areas provided by the Bank Group or other sources. In
particular, the project would link up with: (a) the IDA /UNDP Technical
Assistance Project to the Ministry of Planning (Credit 1217-RW, UNDP
Project RWA/80/009: 'Study Fund') in the area of investment budgeting; (b)
the UNDP/DTCD assistnnce to MINIFINECO ("Public Finance Project") for
project preparation, start-up, and coordination; (c) the EEC effort to
improve accounting procedures and organizational design in public
enterprises ("Accounting and Organization Pool"); and (d) the IDA
Institutional Development Project in the Ministry of Agriculture (under
preparation) in the areas of budget preparation and execution. Technical
Assistance already provided to MINIFINECO by Belgium and Switzerland, as
well as that planned by the IMF, have been integrated into the project
design.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.      The project resulted from discussion of the latest Country
Economic Memorandum (May 1983) with Government, and from the keen awareness
among key officials (Presidency, Ministry of Finance and Economy) of the
need to improve the management of public finance. Based on Bank and IMF
studies of the fiscal and budgetary systems, an identification mission
visited the country in September 1983 and outlined a possible project. In
January 1984, Government was reorganized and ministerial responsibilities
redistributed (with a significant broadening of the Finance Ministry's
responsibilities). New organization charts were published and new
personnel appointed in May 1984. Based on the results of the
identification missioa, Government prepared a request for a technical
assistance project in April 1984. A task force composed of MINIFINECO's



- 15 -
Directors-General and Bank Group staff prepared the project in May-June
1984. Appraisal by essentially the same task force took place in October
1984. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 25 to 27
inclusive. Mr, Celestin Ndagijimana, Secretary General of HINIFINECO, led
the Rwandese delegation. The project's main features are highlighted in
the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this Report. Special
conditions of the Credit are summarized in Annex III.
Project Objectives
38.      The Government's main objective is to improve, through the
project, its control over public finance. To that end, the project will
aim at:
(a) training (i) staff in MINIFINECO and (ii) financial managers
in technical ministries, parastatals, and development
projects;
(b) improving procedures for budget preparation and execution;
and
(c) strengthening Government capabilities for economic policy
making.
Project Description
39.      Proposed project components are:
(a) training for MINIFINECO staff and for financial managers in
other ministries and selected parastatal agencies through:
i)  establishment of a Training Center in MINIFINECO
(detailed accomodations schedules, renovation of
existing premises, furniture and equipment, one training
specialist for three years, and short backstopping
missions);
(ii) remedial training for current staff (training modules,
study tours, and high level seminars);
(b) improvement of tax, customLs, budgetary procedures, and
accounting practices through:
(i) technical assistance (one budgetary procedures and
budget management specialist for three years, one public
accounting specialist for two years, and short
backstopping missions);
(ii) phased introduction of automated data processing
(including appropriate hardware, software, one computer



- 16 -
specialist for three years, one programmer for two
years, in-service training, two one year fellowships
abroad, and short backstopping missions);
(c) improvement of financial management of the parastatal sector
portfolio through services of one business management
specialist for three years;
(d) improvement of economic policy-making through provision of
short-term consultant services; and
(e) vehicles and equipment.
Detailed Features
A. Training Center (Centre de Formation Professionnelle, CFP)
40.      This component is intended both to train national staff, and to
introduce objective criteria for the future selection and promotion of
personnel in MINIFINECO. It addresses, on a limited and experimental scale,
some of the current constraints on civil service personnel management
(para. 31). The establishment of the Training Center should help to test
the application of basic principles of personnel management on this
concrete case.
41.      The Training Center would train 30 people per year.  The target
population would be future, as well as currently employed MINIFINECO staff,
and current and future financial managers in technical ministries,
parastatals, and development projects. Current training needs have been
evaluated at 300 current staff in MINIFINECO, and about 30 for current
financial managers. Of this init.al target group of 330, about 70 people
would receive remedial training under the project (para. 47). The need to
upgrade the skills of current staff not selected for remedial training
(260), normal staff attrition in various ministries, and the staffing of
development projects justify the proposed cohort size, which is in line
with public sector absorptive capacity.
42.      Admission to the Center would be on the basis of an entrance
examination open to candidates having just completed their secondary
education, or to currently employed civil servants. The balance between
these two groups would be defined in the entrance examination rules.
Successful candidates would have a civil service trainee status, while



- 17 -
attending the Center. Upon graduation, which would be based on
satisfactory performance, trainees would be bound by an obligation to serve
in MINIFINECO, as financial staff in technical ministries, or in entities
under the responsibility of technical ministries (parastatals, or
development projects) for a specified length of time. Breach of this
obligation would require trainees to reimburse the cost of their education
(including their salary as trainees).
43.      The Center would provide practically oriented training for
mid-level positions. The degree granted by the Center would be a
"terminal" one (i.e. it would not lead to further higher education). CFP's
two-year curriculum would comprise core courses, and four specialized
streams (customs specialist, tax specialist, budget and public accounting
specialist, and financial controller). The curriculum would stress
practical training, emphasizing concrete public administration guidelines,
actual procedures used by the Rwandese administration, and case studies.
Internships and class-room learning would alternate, and receive equal
emphasis. A draft curriculum is provided in Annex IV.
44.      The Center's faculty would be made of practitioners (in particular
technical assistance personnel), teaching part-time, plus two full-time
instructors. Course syllabi would be prepared by each instructor in
charge, and approved by a Pedagogical Council composed of the
Directors-General of MINIFINECO, one representative from the Public
Administration Ministry (MINIFOPE), and one representative from the
Ministry of Higher Education (MINISUPRES). Both internships and courses
would be evaluated, with constant monitoring of the trainees' status and
progress.
45.      Administratively, the Center would be attached to MINIFINECO, as a
separate department. It would be housed in existing premises, which would
be renovated to meet CFP's functions, and to permit the concurrent
organization of ad hoc seminars for MINIFINECO staff. The Center's
administrative structure wou'ld be light (one director, one deputy director
with support staff); no boarding would be offered.
46.      The project would finance (a) the preparation of detailed
schedules of accomodation, equipment and furniture lists, and architectural
designs corresponding to the above principles, and (b) the start-up of the
Center's operations (including renovation of premises, furniture,
equipment, and operating costs on a declining basis over four years, see
para. 71). Terms of reference for preparation of the detailed
specifications have been agreed at appraisal, and can be found in Annex
IV. To assist Government in establishing the Center, the project would
also finance the services of one training specialist for 36 months to help
steer the specifications study, and start up operations. Meanwhile, to
-meet immediate staff upgrading needs, the project would finance a remedial
training program.



- 18 -
B. Remedial Training Program
47.      The remedial training program would have four main objectives:
(a) to improve, in the short-run, the current performance of
HINIFINECO staff;
(b)  to upgrade the environment in which CFP trainees would
Mi) receive on-the-job training, and (ii) eventually be
integrated;
(c)  to help fine tune the content of courses to be offered by
CFP; and
(d) to identify, among staff having completed the program, those
best able to teach at CFP on a part-time basis.
48.      A detailed analysis of the training needs of each MINIFINECO's
Directorate General, carried out in close collaboration with the
Directors-General, and, sometimes with the staff to be trained, led to the
identification of eight training modules. For each, the target population,
content, and delivery mode were specified. Each module would permit to
train, at one time, a number of officials sufficient to reach a critical
mass, and thus to produce an appreciable change in operating procedures and
an improvement in the performance of each Directorate. A description of
the modules can be found in Annex V.
49.      Besides the eight modules, the remedial training program would
also reinforce the commitment of higher officials to the reform and
improvement program by (a) organizing for them high-level seminars abroad;
and (b) financing study tours (about 10 study tours of 30 days each) to
enable concerned officials to become familiar with on-going public finance
management reform programs in other francophone countries (for example
Niger, some Maghreb countries, Belgium, and France).
50.      The modules would be organized partly in Kigali (in the existing
facilities of the MINIFOPE), and partly in France. Rwandese officials
would be received in units of the French Finance Ministry, comparable to
those in which they work. They would attend formal training sessions in
the French Ministry Training Ceater, and serve as interns. Each program
would be designed to meet the specific skills and needs of the particular
target group.
C. Improvement of Budgetary and Accounting Procedures
51.      Procedures would be improved through: (a) long-term technical
assistance for budget preparation and management, and public accounting,



- 19 -
and related staff training; and (b) phased introduction of automated data
processing, both to increase etticiency and to act as a catalyst for the
analysis and rationalization of present procedures.
52.      Long-term advisers.  The project would finance the services of two
long-term advisers as tollows:
(a) one budgetary procedures and budget umnagement specialist:
this adviser would be assigned tor 36 months to the
Directorate General of the Budget to help reform budgetary
procedures. This reform function would be temporary. The
adviser, who would work in collaboration with MINIPLAN for
coordinating recurrent and development budgets, would be
expected (Annex VI) to help design, propose, adopt, and enact
improved budgetary procedures to address the deficiencies
mentioned above (para. 27). The improvements would be
submitted for the approval of the Interministerial
Coordinating Committee for Economic Policy (para. 26-a) to
ensure that they are appropriate to the needs of key
ministries and are thus likely to be enacted; for this
purpose, key 'spending' ministries (Public Works, Primary and
Secondary Education, Defense, Intcrior, Public Administration)
would be invited to attend the CIC's meetings on budgetary
reform; and
(b) one public accounting specialist:  this adviser would be
assigned for 24 months to the Directorate General of Public
Accounting and work in close collaboration with the budget
Directorate. The adviser's function (Annex VI) would also be
temporary (formulation of reforms). The adviser would design,
and help to introduce, new public accounting methods, and
train staff.
53.      Automated data processing.  The project would finance the gradual
introduction of computers into MINIFINECO. A phased master plan has been
approved to permit the automation of data processing (introduction of
micro-computers in the tax directorate first, and then in the customs
directorate).  While these applications are implemented, the budgetary
procedures and pYublic accounting specialists would review existing
budgetary and accounting procedures, and propose improvements.  When new
procedures are agreed, the entire budget management system would be
automated on a mini-computer. Earlier applications (tax and customs) would
be integrated in the main system. The system would permit, inter alia, to
improve monitoring of the country's external debt and budget execution, and
production of timely financial indicators. The phasing of the master plan
takes into account: (a) the current absorptive capacity of MINIFINECO's
various departments (the tax application has been selected as the first one
for technical reasons, and because of the quality of the Directorate's
staff and management. A successful introduction of microcomputers there
would have a positive impact on other Directorates); (b) increasing levels



- 20 -
of technical difficulty from one stage to the next; and (c) the need to
train Rwandese specialists abroad before the full system can be
implemented.
54.      The project would finance the services necessary to complete the
introduction of various applications, the appropriate hardware and
software, one computer specialist for 36 months, one programmer for 24
months, two fellowships to train micro- and mini-computer specialists
abroad, and on-the-job training. The long-term computer specialist would
first be assigned to MINIFINECO. The specialist would collaborate with
the National Computer Service to help design public sector applications,
and to ensure compatibility of all systems (special attention would be paid
to issues of equipment standardization). The programmer would be assigned
to MINIFINECO.
D. Management of Public Sector Portfolio
55.      Government has recently taken measures to limit budgetary
transfers to parastatals. It has also sought EEC assistance to improve
management information systems in selected parastatals through the
establishment of an "Accounting and Organization Pool". This unit is to
help update available financial information, set up proper accounting
systems, and offer management advice. This improved information should
help HINIFINECO make better financial decisions about the parastatal
sector. The unit in charge of preparing such decisions, MINIFINECO's State
Investment Control Directorate is, however, currently understaffed, and
lacks the proper skills.
56.      The project would finance one business management specialist
assigned for 36 months to the Inspectorate General of Finance, State
Investment Control Directorate. The expert's main responsibilities would
be to help design control procedures, and standard methods to analyze
various types of enterprises, so as to improve decision-making about the
parastatal sector (divesture, equity participation, subsidies, etc.). The
specialist would work in close collaboration with the EEC financed
"Accounting and Organization Pool", and participate in training activities.
E. Strengthening of Economic Decision Making
57.      To improve economic policy-making, Government has set up a
coordinating mechanism (the Interministerial Coordinating Committee on
Economic Policy, para. 26-i), regrouping key actors in this field.
MINIFINECO chairs the Committee, for which its Studies and Evaluation
Directorate will act as technical secretariat. This Directorate has the
required skills to identify needs and to prepare terms of reference for
outside expertise as needed. To help prepare papers for submission to the
Committee, the proJect would finance short-term consultant services (about



- 21 -
30 staff months), who would work with MINIFINECO's studies and evaluation
Directorate.
F. Vehicles and Equipment
58.      The project would finance vehicles for project related activities,
and operating expenditures, and office equipment for selected units in
MINIFINECO (typewriters, storage cabinets, hand calculators, etc.).
Project Implementation
59.      MINIFINECO would coordinate the implementation of various project
components (Section 3.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
MINIFINECO's Secretary-General in charge of Finance would be responsible
for ensuring the coordination of technical assistance from various sources
(Section 3.04(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Government
would appoint a national project coordinator chosen among high-level
officials having closely followed project preparation, and acceptable to
the Association (Section 3.04(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). An interim choice, acceptable to the Association, was
communicated at the time of negotiations. The appointment of a permanent
national project coordinator would be a condition of effectiveness (Section
5.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.      Government would (a) enact, by November 1, 1985, legislation
acceptable to the Association establishing MINIFINECO's Training Center
(Section 3.05(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (b)
appoint the Training Center Director by November 1, 1985 (Section 3.05(a)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The enactment of legislation
acceptable to the Association, and the appointment of the Training Center
Director would be conditions of disbursement for project activities related
the Training Center (Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Government would submit course syllabi to the Association's
approval by June 1, 1986 (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
61.      MINIFINECO would:
(a)  establish and maintain accountIng records for all project
activities;
(b) open with the National Bank of Rwanda (BNR) a project account
to finance local expenditures incurred by the project. Funds
would be deposited in this account by Government -- US$
70,000 equivalent on April 1, and October 1 of each year,
starting on April 1, 1986 and ending on October 1, 1988



- 22 -
(Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The first Government deposit of US$ 70,000 equivalent would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section
5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and
(c) open a Special Account in the National Bank of Rwanda
to cover expenditures under disbursement categories (c) and
(f), and travel expenditures under disbursement category (d)
(Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 4 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Association would deposit an amount
of US$ 70,000 equivalent (revolving fund), corresponding to
four months of estimated expenditures.
Delivery System for Technical Assistance
62.      In view of the specialized nature of project activities, and of
the success so far of using a twinning arrangemeu.t in a similar effort
undertaken in Niger under IDA financing (Credit 1493, approved  n June 7,
1984), the Rwandese Government would enter into a twinning arrangement with
the French Ministry of Finance and Economy through ADETEF (a non-profit,
voluntary association of civil servants in the French Ministry of
Finance). in providing institutional technical assistance, evidence is
increasingly available to show that twinning arrangements (a professional
relationshlp between an operating entity in a developing ceuntry, and a
similar but more mature organization elsewhere) are useful in achieving
successful project implementation. The mature entity: (a) has operating
experience in similar functions; (b) training and technical assistance can
be integrated since the mature entity can offer various combinations of
specialist services, role models and training facilities; and (c) the
possibility exists of continued long-term cooperation between the two
entities.
63.      Long-term  advisers would be selected by the Rwandese Government.
The French Ministry would provide the necessary support for implementation
through: (a) periodic secondment of its own staff for short-term
backstopping missions in the areas of budgetary and public accounting
procedures, computerization, and training; (b) the organization of
tailor-made training programs in France for selected Rwandese officials
(remedial training program); (c) the review of documents and proposals
submitted by Rwandese officials; and (d) the participation of Rwandese
officials in high-level training activities organized by France. Special
links would be established between the French Ministry Center for
Professional Training and Upgrading, and MINIFINECO's Training Center
(organization of curriculum, review of syllabi, logistical arrangements for
setting up the Center, organizing entrance examinations, etc.). A protocol



- 23 -
defining a ',r-gram of cooperation between the French and the Rwandese
Ministry has been signed. This protocol defines the framework in which
specific activities will take place. It has been submitted to the
Association's approval during negotiations. The credit would cover (as in
the Niger case) travel and subsistence expenditure for short-term
secondment missions, but no professional fees would be charged by French
officials. To achieve long-term impact, the twinning arrangement is
expected to continue beyond the project period.
64.      Long-term advisers would prepare a yearly work program which would
be approved by their Rwandese supervisors, and reviewed by the Association
(Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Programs would
include time-tables for the completion of planned activities, and specify
the respective responsibilities of national and expatriate staff. The
Government would assign qualified national staff in adequate numbers to
participate in project activities (Section 3.06 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). For long-term advisers, a period of winding down
activities would take place at the end of the contract. Instead of
residing in Rwanda during their last six months, the advisers would make
visits, totaling six months, over a longer period of time. This would
allow a progressive transfer of responsibilities, with the guarantee of
technical backstopping as necessary.
65.      Recruitment.  The budgetary procedures and budget management
specialist, the public accounting specialist, and the business management
specialist would be recruited as a team, preferably through a consulting
firm. So would the computer specialist and the programmer. The
educational specialist would be recruited as individual consultants. Terms
of reference have been agreed at appraisal, and confirmed at negotiations
(Annex VI).
Project Costs
66.      Total project costs at the base date of November 1, 1984 have been
estimated at about US$ 5.3 million equivalent, of which US$ 3.7 million
equivalent (70 percent) are foreign costs, and US$ 1.6 million equivalent
(30 percent), local. The proposed Credit would finance USS 4.8 equivalent
(100 percent of foreign costs and 69 percent of local costs) representing
90 percent of total costs. The Government contribution would amount to
about US$ 490,000 equivalent. A summary cost table appears in the Project
and Credit Summary. A cost table by project component can be found in
Annex VII.
67.      The average cost per staff-month for long-term advisers has been
estimated on the basis of prevailing international rates (which, for long
term assignments, include supplementary costs to permit a winding down
period for the advisers); the average staff-month for short-term



- 24 -
consultants also matches prevailing market rates. Renovation costs for the
Training Center have been estimated at about US$ 315,000. The cost of
computer equipment has been estimated at about USS 400,000. Price
contingencies have been added as tollows: 1984 --international 3.5
percent, local 9.5 percent; 1985 --international 8.0 percent, local 9.5
percent; 1986 through 1989 --international 9.U percent, local 9.0
percent.Physical contingencies have been added: 5.0 percent for equipment,
10 percent for construction and renovation, and none for specialists and
consultants services.
Procurement
68.      The selection of specialists and consultants would be in
accordance with the Association's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
in August 1981. Price would not be a primary selection criteria.
69.      Equipment excluding computers (vehicles, office furniture, and
office machines) not exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent after grouping would
be procured locally on the basis of quotations from three firms which can
provide proper customer services. Computer equipment would be procured
through ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines, and subject to Government
decisions on equipment standardization. A procurement table can be found in
Annex VIII.
70.      Renovation work for the Training Center premises, and preparation
of the physical accomodations for the mini-computer would be carried out
after local competitive bidding, or by force account, whichever is the
least cost method. This would be determined when detailed specifications
are ready.
Disbursements
71.      Funds from the credit would be disbursed over four years on the
following basis:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for  aivestment costs of the Training Center;
(b)  for operatLig costs of the Training Center:  100 percent of
expendicures in FY86; 60 percent in FY87; 40 percent in FY88;
and 10 percent in FY89;
(c)  100 percent of total expenditures for the remedial training
program;
(d)  100 percent of total expenditures for technical assistance
services (long-term specialists, short-term consultants, and
backstopping missions);
(e)  100 percent of foreign and 50 percent of local expenditures
for computerization;



- 25 -
(f) 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures
for vehicles and equipment; and
(g) refinancing of the advance under the Project Preparation
Facility.
72.      Disbursements would be fully documented except those for local
expenditures against operating expenditures (Training Center and vehicles),
and purchase of equipment, which would be reimbursed by the Association
according to the above percentages upon submission of statements of
expenditures. An advance of US$ 450,000 under the Project Preparation
Facility was granted to the Government in December 1984. It would be
refinanced by the proposed credit (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
73.      Audit.  Project accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association (Section 4.01(b) the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Special attention would be paid to
expenditures reimbursed under statements of expenditures.
74.      Project Implementation Schedule.  Implementation schedules for
various project components were agreed at appraisal.  In particular, (a)
recruitment of the budget management and public accounting specialists, (b)
systems analysis and application design for computerizing the tax
administration, and (c) the detailed specifications study for the Training
Center would start during the first quarter of 1985, under a $450,000
advance under the Project Preparation Facility (para. 72). The Training
Center would start operations in October 1986. The remedial training
program would start in March 1985. Full computerization of the budget
management system would start in March 1986. The integrated system would
operate by June 1987. The closing date would be December 31, 1989.
Benefits and Risks
75.      At the end of the project period, Government should have improved
control ove he budgetary process, from resource constraint identification
to monitoring of budget execution. The introduction of computers should
help to produce timely indicators, and improvements in policy-making should
help put this information to better use in the adoption of adjustment
measures. Training activities, which would have a measurable output, should
help to remedy the current lack of skills, and to provide a steady stream
of competent staff for the future. The establishment of the Training Center



- 26 -
should help to introduce objective criteria for the recruitment and
promotion of financial staff, and to start a dialogue on larger issues
concerning the management of civil service careers. It might serve as an
important building block in the creation of an appropriate institution for
civil service training. Finally, support to the CIC mechanism should help
strengthen interministerial coordination.
76.      The major risks are linked to the speed with which reforms will be
approved and implemented. In particular, the introduction of new principles
in the selection and promotion of financial staff is a delicate operation,
which might encounter difficulties. Project preparation and appraisal
specifically focused on ways and means to minimize these potential
difficulties. MINIFINECO staff, from working level up to the Minister, is
aware and supportive of the project, and key officials played a major role
in ensuring a simple and realistic design, matching technical requirements
and perceived needs. Terms of reference for the advisers were prepared by
those who would receive and work with them. Training activities mere
identified with Directors and concerned staff, and the Ministry has enough
authority to maximize the chances of success of the Training Center.
Twinning arrangements should provide backstopping by a mature entity, with
extensive experience in specialized training and in meeting the special
needs of sub-Saharan African countries.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Rwandese
Republic and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
78.      Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
79.      1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 4, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 27 -                                                 ANNEX 1
Page 1 of S
TaULI h~~~~~~a- cI0   
T a I L -1 1a
WAUFa                  -WA ma ma  Itat  I IIAT  33157
WANDA                                 are -   cmit caurs (MIGH  aw u
CoT         L         imiitef 3t?lauIn*U) Ik.
1wook       1tkLb-   COTiiit          6  sik Thl or mann   armuca S. or Sa
mu* tiinAA N. u)
oAL                                   20.3         20.3        20.3
aclQILTUIR.                           11.0         15.2       1n.e
Out   Znta (1e4)                        70.0         300.0       200.0            249.1 112.9
(WcaM(s or OIL  QIIIVALZUT)           30.0         11.0        17.0            62.8                     3t.O
rmnnm -Murw. sTms
,0f12Afl0.10.N TLYAI (?HOIIAII)    2111.0       3695.0       3530.0
IIUU  OpUWaUTIOU (2 01 TOTAL)          2.4          3.2         4..                                      2917
PfutLATfOU lEACY 306
pU3ATt?0  to TVI 2000 (MU.L)                                10.0
STATZOUAET FOOIlATION (MILL)                                47.4
dPlIIAYT 106 inEUt                                            3.9
1oUUAiclOU 0 T51
pUgE. U.                           206.5       160.3       203.0             I.S                       51.6
U 5. 3. ASh . LAm.                191.2        242.9       371.0            119.2                     113.5
PofuL*TlON StL STXIITIIIE (2)
0-14 TiS                          44.3         65.7        65.9             05.0                      as A
13-09 TRI                          53.0         51.d        51.4             51.5                      51.7
05 AIM UIW9                        2.7          2.7         2.7              2.6                       2.9
POMAIMIO 05173 lAYE (2)
TOTAL                               2.0          2.6         3.0              2.5                       2.3
SLaM                                5.4          5.4         0.4              0.2                       1.2
CaD  *iBWN ILATZ (pg1  10S)          53.3         53.6        53.0             46.0                      47.0
tiD  DIATh  AnI (KA 30S)             :7.1         22.)        39.7             17.7                     15.2
CuS REPODUCTION  SAT                  3.0          3.8         3.4              3.2                      3.2
1*611. FLAWING
aCCSFoOs. aanaL (THOLS)              ..
VMS5 (2 0r      1      N)            ..           .. mm                        ..                       ..
I=  or FOOD WOO. MER CAPITA
Q909-71-W00)                         51.0        10:.0       105.0             55.0                     91.0
PU CAPITA SUPLY or
CALONIES 1S of tOQLZRDENTS)        33.0         93.0        U.0              6.04                     95.2
uamits {(AMS PEt DaY)              51.0         ".O         52.0             9.t                      54.7
Or WICi aAi.wA  aIM rLLSI        20.0         33.0        n.0 Ic           15.3                     17.0
C11. (CS 1-4) D3T1 RATE            40.0         32.0        25.0             Z3.6                     16.7
LIFE OxPECr. AT  I:TE1 (IEAiS        39.5         42.5        40.1             41.4                     51.7
INFANT  RDS3. RAT  (PE TIIOISJ     17.0         150.0       12b.0           117.5                     102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE gUEL (t1OP)
TOTAL                                             ..        37.0 id          21.                      31.0
UISU                                 *-           *-        *1.0 7I         *1.5                      54.1
ItUlAL                          1J.0 7d-                                    24.2                      27.3
ACCESS TO ElairA DISPOSAL
(I oF POPUIATIOI)
oTaL                                 ..         53.0        57.0 I.          32.0
US                                   ..         33.0        87.0 ,.         0.2.
3L*                                 *.          52.0        50.0 o          24.3
POPCL*TIOU PER nYSICLAK          113:90.0 /f  5910.0    31510.0            27477.6                   11948.3
VW. PEa U2LSINC I'fOl             I 411.2o.oT    6420.0     9540.0          33,0.2                    Z241.9
POt. ME  uoSIIAI 3KU
OtAL                                 ..        790.0       000.0          1019.0                     996.9
1                                    ..         50.0        50.0 Ic        391.2                     34.7
SOAL                                 .        3100.0      1*00.'re        3094.0                    4012.1
A5SSIO5 S PR OSPITAL EKU                          21.2
*131St S1g or 0ousrN18.
mai                                  ..           ..          .                ..
333fl                      ..           ..         4..               .                        .
AV*nS NO. Or PILSOMS/ROS
rotaL                                ..          ..           .                ..
usan                                 ..          .....
ma                                   ..          ..           .                ..
TOA         T. (2 OP    L    )
m^^                                  ..          ..           .                ..
ma~                        ..           ..          .                ..
e_.. . . ....



-28 -                                                   ANNEX I
TS a 0 L                                            Pa9s 2 of 5
_ANOA                   - SOCIAL InDIATOms DATA SMET
EHANDA                      ~~~~~REFERENCE GRtOUPS (WEIGUTED ZA )  -0
MST                  CHOSSVCATU) /                 a *
b ECUIT     LOW IPCOIE AFRICA         MIDDLE Mam
*bigooL   lmJe       tsutioL.b        SOUTH OF S)I          AFRICA S. OF SAhARA
EAmTIm
LDJUSTED IROLWLENT LATLOS
PRIUMAR:  TOTAL                     *9.0         74.0         72.0             09.2                      9t.o
NAC                      48.0         81.0         75.0             71.1                      90.5
Frc.                     30.0         03.0         09.0             57.0                      73.0
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     2.0          Z.0          2.0             13.1                      17.0
PALE                      2.0           3.0         3.0             17.0                      21.I
FuQaY                     1.0          1.0          1.0              6.1                      14.8
VOCATIONL (2 OF SECODAY)              39.6         12.2         23.6              7.2                       5.3
PUPIL-TEACuR RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0         60.0         37.0            '0.1                       36.0
SEDAut                              10.0         13.0         13.0             25.9                      20.3
ADULT LITRCY RATE v  R)               16.4 If      23.0oj       49.7             44.3                      35.0
PASSUIrI CAIS/TIOUSAND POP             0.4          0.9          1.3 1.           3.6                      20.7
RADOO UUSVUS/THOUSAND POP               ..          8.1         35.7             41.9                     100.8
TV      V     NUSAND POP                ..           ..           ..              2.0                      U.
NEUiSPAfl C(hILT GEIiDAL
INTIrE1T) CIaJtLAITON
PE  THOUSAND POPULATION               ..           ..         0.04  c            .4                      17.2
CIUD   AAUAL ATTENDAJCE/CAJITA          ..           ..         i.6 7             1.4                       0.3
TOTAL LAROR MFRC  (rHOUS)           I&10.O       :007.0      2553.0
FDPALE (PERCENT)                    49.I         48.6        48.2              36.5                      33.6
ACtlCULTR  (PERCENT)                95.0         93.0        91.0              77.4                      57.1
INDUSTtY (PERCENT)                   1.0          2.0         2.0              9.6                       ii.'
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               56.b         S4.3         32.1            41.0                       36.3
1tALt                               58.9         56.9         53.2             52.1                      07.0
--.ALE                              54.4         51.9        49.2             30.2                      2M.1
ECONOMIC DEPNDENCY RATIO               0.o          0.9         0.9               1.2                       1.0
11       isiuzwTo.
1EIISNT OF RIVATE INCOtE
RECEIVED It
8IuGhT 532 OF HOLSEKOLDS              ..
HIG8S  20: OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
LOEST 20T  OF HOLSEHOLDS              ..
LOtwST 4O1 OF WOUSEWOLDS              ..
to ?mTA s        -
ES?L ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVL (USS PER CAPITA)
ULIM                                  .. ..                   108.0 kc       168.3                      525.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..        85.0 I           90.8                     249.0
ESTMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPI;A;
Ui                                    ..           ..          ..            107.7                      477.4
RURL                                  ..           ..        43.0 /c          65.0                      186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUME
POVERY INCOE LEVEL (:)
30.0 le         34.7
RLL                                   ..           ..        90.0o7;          65..
NOT AVALIARLE
NOT APPLICABL
N Y  T E S
Le  'Me group averages for each indleator aro populatioo-wighted arithetLc _mans.  Coverage of countries among the
indIcators depond oc avallabillty of d"to and lr not unlforu.
lb  Unl"er  thervwse noted. -eta for 1960- retfr to any yer betwen  1959 and 196l; -Deta for 1970c between 1969 and
1971; a_d deta for 'Oboc Vacent Estmate-  between 1650 ad 1952.
/c  1977; id 1976; /J 1975; /f 1962; LL 1973.
JimE. 1954



-29 -                                                                            ANNEX I
P3.iyl a                                                          ~~~~~PageT-of 5
depaP.  Ulm. .ft 3Md-. 44     30  0            sttiwei, woCCIw CItSfilt                     .tt.  Ito lt..3              e     tMe  it. . oas bIs,     MIat
lowISP: Pw,d u .s *6 E - .5   .. *l CCCCiiC  4101eiii    -0 LLI        teSP -Ldf 41PC.tlt  10a.inS. til ...I    ed dd le s.      ded. det. oselleakea.  .ft&. ad
,d1da .s.  .6  Wattl. llft.  is.         .5 tCtIlf_IP*  Ww1.3   le   1 lf.. aided          51w,1.
,so,r..a*     *l  ill it wo  a*l        S-M  i.4   - Lvea, .ct.t. -s fit I e.I** 4 *u   el dided, sist. I.n "....it   i.. I"   a,. sin. a ..d
Po..  s.len   P.  *,-n ll...                ,f9       *9 ac.6p   .411i. In-  s..., at... -L sa"L. U.., C. .bat  Mea   O                  -*.cg        j
*,i~t,.I. ie..lsa*ti  Ci   .nq e .6. 3.1Sd t. .111                    19POi."Iowat.5   6.6 1S    IC          - SfaS,tesfit    I.4 P. qatIt  J.
`taM  fe    .6-Iilli aidd. *5  1t1.    4 t..A,.l  153   ielf  "pC-d                            3  ...eI llMM       d*.C   I     aieit...ctd  Me. 5
*rn              Pit...         -ft- ..L   -La4W-                                                                                     p. 131tii
Sf'I. en 6113 lele.                                          S~~~~~_d. il  -f.S  a  li.       W .itl.6   .ceIl. peI.t .L. PPR   Lt
PA,  e                                           a-ldtSo-1 1.14d ..o ,fl                            lowedjp-o a   Pfl..a           - d .41 543..  .*  3iM3
.M. od'"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~SC.65
cm.M 10        *.        CiCe...iI. Pdf         d."                       ..do'.              ....t .  %a Met        51        -       e   CS
e5   MltU   Mis  5t5   MCM   C  .SM5.                                                                     a, 6Cc   atCt*l*    3a.  l.   1"IPLSI     I"
C M-A   . -  _-      L -01. -d .       M.                                mott-1. *f e,"        5 356aa, ltt.lss- -a.a
t1 I-       CCC7.1   0i    dww ICi    _l3i d-en- fttiIo6lClt.  Pitoid t6                                   attC    iI           C          SC.i
,Ld-   Wt. CCft,Ladd     if lItih",   Ci.  4e  _   tfW...1.13 *iiC. tP1Me. en 3.6.  Stil..   .ip                                  t.
ClIce .l_ea W      tall .ea-Ps itS. .e- .te     ci   IC de   hroe
a-iett*   .t.tt ""             tu I, 1. M.-  3o...eU1teIIt   ntit
flsiuls- Semi.-    nsda   d  -   a-oW-.mC.  _..
1e4   t  Me    etI  e id Ca ls  -, U   ettl. #i-liiM.                                   5          *n-    -    e   t.i  .   C.I.dd a6 retai
6.4 -Mt  CatWS  'lin aP- UfCit 1                 *sle.                                  CC. CMtct              ilt     L-tCfttl tile  *.th..           k-
1W0. -   LM  st  641.  if-1      W'     11..      ,ttleeeee  i.P-.tf                                I .-        ,*ltittUSte    35.iutta
C.,    lado .3.1.  ~i. deal -tty   CU teal .fl.  ee     *.etit                       .-tIi" M.fSi. It .I-MI  -          Lw.CIetd   .e.l    i
i.L I    seleCid,    it  C     I    .4    eC.t.ti.-Ueil.lt'
tl.If   I.                                                                   CitI.   I. 1th tsMo, oteaep   .itcg...n.
i*p~~~*34l*i* bicitli                                                          iiitt3iI a.-  .M.  -LtIc3s.   .o   A.  e  etl.  C..ti.e
.a.i'Ml.ml'len *~dLi
Itais  .M. *1 . e    atL . I...i.a.n  l. L, e ".Wkb.n                                                                ..t           e,ti .
lIMitS                                                It,.ttlt C   t                    tiJ    M    95.  Itl t 36,a
__________________ _________________                                  t  edoed- *  te C   .p .  ~   i s   s . adoi a          t   o wle. a
citm eC                                                      ..f .ne;Ite    113cC   I wo, LCOCa  e   it                                    =h   =     tWlU t edsa.65w
66C  ICS   *  I~U .iCliI- LI t  It -   ECtS , 'IseLoad       e                     It.  -  e466. I.66                   e     a   i  1.e6C         Si
Vie  1St3   p.  Id  .     , 5311         6L .0    1t.                                 M          1.  U.e e iUeitMieI Mt.. 
rMeI3.                                                                                   gojf.C1     StMC  ISa   .a...-55tgdt- Mods" OIS nPO C.   --ALL,, t.l pio-   Ct.   it14.
~~l~~I~F1sVilZ~~~~i.U2 eat.                                                 Cttimt4Wr' L al It apai a5C     p -dt iteCS    Ct.e, .Ctt   -I It
.9 M     ~     -e          -.        ~i..            tl  3.  tI lalitoday PA.."M5  61OCIt   4iddd -if t   .talsed,
3.6 aCOSitiaiti. P flUIC ~  lsiet ttI  .ffe           he l.   lttJ1lt Ca.lt,CeCidte              imt.-   M anwdaevW
it.l.JtIycC.l'a E         CCut   14,10-4 atI - &.0s. .tPa C .. Stt-lCi               atlit St,ICtda id
Ih&liMC   . 4 I.  11 od          ha.1 .    ellis  Ct6 **.8                                             ft         li*ent 5CC   itaW 
:5 ftI  LCCP. ilt aM. It  WetS  i-t fl035  COP.                                       tt.tit ICel  5.   t -0       tt-liat Itere           C   It. -
1~~~~a.~~~~~LtIp                                                       lt~~~~~~'n.et.t!IF itS.ltl IDS, I eLo
J -l %        -Idsid   ft.lI i WL-PtIl -. SM  ea  131i rJM3..-ft.- Ct.   ..                                      -   esf fin. -CF'L lin  teal -1.
Pd-I..;Idid   e.  ltd           WOiel         t dw .tIaa         eCI-      ~        i=lhda1u - - .e.CCC  I felc.                     teC.U '  n
-PP,4   IIl deSet W.I PM ete.   Welte   C.   fif    5tI                                   ittaIfCi 6itI I.."                ft1   liIs ofiC-  .51  tfIt
ale.                                                                       CirtlylitlIahi. iiL..t.lt- CCI,  01. is Cip; c t'tf,tist.lside .t
ti   ai. .it ett -1 M" "'w. W           eA -00  S. C 610                        ceII CnIt,  -edt It S   il   s  et.I
d.et...  iiadt, run   la eL  Ia tivet -a S- wool go esit  tet                    Htne         I.t...  en ataat =w, cad,doC                     ..tatIed,i
zzi   .IlS. taIt  ett.             ft1  -    tt,t"Id""        lee W  taid .   Il.en alwooa.  131. -Uiea - -  l.Cetitt.65
*  1.t. 1 end tf     t" tII 1-9 c   tialt lale   al.Ce.   C                          IetIt 4C            tnttt   i  St  I.. W Aetl IttLA IL .:  ti MLwc 
sates  a.. atmIS-  aw a        d et - aai   .t.et LS-2.9F C .c      9 ataLI   LI  W                             di  0.1- 14     tet. C 1 Mit -  t en   do 
M  CtI_ 4CilbtC   Cast,       *iIsd=".PtC  I- itat  Cssi' le,
Cen -a W    doi.".t   fltes. lift Salnas4  div..LttPsas  dd                                 e                   aW         u     os.    .11             IS   d
ta .~t. Jlis5  IC3.  -e 1Wt .4 CCC  1.4.41      C -        .-                                     .1 t*IctIS Scleg=3~4sa    OIfS
3.1151Ic .11 .t  eCteba I Itt.  t..ta  .           -ft                 Cent-S.l                                                   ILSft.IsPP
p.lsecae.. 6wastI SIn, Ote Cw a-ISAa CaLIal. ""WC
5 W   dC  dleaCed CW       two .6 fI  5 115 AafItI C   12
isd..     V.CColCi tt0.
15.I   a    a NOW      c.,ICI  .    al     ~   AM."            itLawpLet   IN   sq   till  ~gept..
Use &     IM lt a0 41011G  .111 las    Ila Mooed       int.tA t                      Ptill.tlti                   t    te,It6lta                   e
5350    t anal fat  ip.  etded         i ..  Mll     ren itdae.                 pIllI           4I.Slc M.    iS   CM    a                        ..



- 30 -
AM=E I
CouNwTr  DATA - IRANDA                    Toge  of 5
AREA                              POPULATION                     DENSITY (1962)
26.3 thousand sq. In.             5.5 million (mid-1982)         210 per sq. km.
Rate of Grovth:                393 per sq. km. of
3.62 (from 1976 to 1982)           arable '.and
POPULATION OYIAACTERISTICS (1978)                 REALTh (1977)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1.000)           54.0       Populatlon per physician       31,510
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)           21,0       Populatlon per hospital bad       650
INCOME DISTRIBUT13N                               ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
S of national incomY, highest quintile            (Kilogram  of coal equivalent) 23.0
lowest quintLie
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (1976)                       ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Z of population - total                35.0       2 of population - total           2.0
- rural
NUTRITION (1977)                                  EDUCATION (1980)
Calorie intak'  as S of requirements  94.2        Adult literace rate 2            49.7
Per captt; protein intake              57.0       PrimSry school enrollmnt 2    70.0
(grams/day)
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1982Y1: USS238;/
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 191-3/                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROuMT
(2. constant 1976 prices)-
uSS min.        2                    1977-81
GDP at Market Prices          1,257.8       100.0                     5.8
Gross Domestic Investment       282.4        22.5                     8.0
Gross National Saving           109.8         8.7
Current Account Balance        -172.6       -13.7
Export of Goods, NFS            150.9        12.0                   -3.9
Import of Goods, NFS            332.0        26.4                    5.0
GOVERNMEENT FINANCE
Central Government
RFw Mln.                  of GDP
1982V           19827           1977
Current Receipts                16.150            11.9             11.5
Current Expendlture             15,120            11.1              8.6
Current Surplus                  1.030             0.8              2.9
Capital Expenditures             3.554             2.2              1.4
Overall Surplus5/               -3.024            -2.2              1.2
1/  The Per Capita GNP estimate calculated by the same conversion technique as the
World Bank Atlas. All other conversions to dollars In this table are at the
average exchange rate prevaillng during the period covered.
If  Prellminary data.
3/  Data are not available for GDP cowxoneots.
4/  Trend rates baed on least square estimtes.
3S  The overall surplus is not equal to the difference betveen current savings and
development expenditures because the consolidated surplus or deficit of the
Treasury special accounts Is not shown in this table.
not available.
not applicable.



- 31 -
COUNMTY DATA - RWADA                           ag O'  o f 5
MONEY  CREDIT AND PRICtS                        1976       1979      1960       1951      1982_
(Million IvF outstanding end period)
money SupplY'                                  11.204    14,122    14,270    16,060    17,460
bank Credit to Governuent (not)                    23     1,473    -3.629    -2,775         150
lank Credit to Private Sector                  5,134      4,564      6,480     8,147      9,765
(Porcentage or Index Nuebors)
Kondy as 2 of Op                                 13.8      14.6       13.4      13.6       13.0
Conoumer Price Index (Jan-Mtr 1976 a 100)    131.3        152.1      163.2     173.8      191.2
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                          12.5       15.8        7.3       6.5       10.0
Bank Credit to Governumt (nct)               -93.7   -6504.3    -159.9        27.4     105.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 17.0      -11.1      42.0       25.7      19.9
BALANCE OF PAYhENTS                                          MERCHANDISE ECPORTS (AVERAGE 19786-82
1979   1990   1981   19821/                      USS  ln.      2
(US$ Millions)
Export, of Goods, NYS           227    166    151    156       Coffee             78.0       56.!
Imports of Goods, NmS         -309   -323   -332   -348        Tea                10.7        8.2
Resource Gap (deficit * -)    -82   -157   -181   -192         Cassiterite        16.6       12.8
Factor Services (net)           -2       5     12      10      wolfram             1.1       03.
Net Transfers                    5      -1     -3       -          ho              1.7         .
Balance on Current Account    -79   -155   -172   -182        COtchon             221.       18.3
Official Grants                 128    106    106      97        Total           135.7      100.0
Direct Privaet For. Invest.    13       17     19      19
Net 1LT Loans                   40      33     25      30    ETMERZAl DEBT, DECEKBER 31. 1982
Other K and LT (net)           -22      -2      2      -                                  US Mln.
Net Short-Term Capital         -10      22     20     -3    Publ$c Debt, inc;.guaranteed 189.3
Capital Flows, NEt               1      -2     -9     -3    Ion-Guaranteed Private Debt
Errors and Omissions            -1      -6      6      -    Total nutstandint I Disbursed
Increase in Reserves (-)       -70    -13      -3    -42
Gross Reserves (end year)      177.6  208.8  199.2  161.6  NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO F0M 1982-/
Petroleum Imports!/             23.0  30.0   42.0   49.0 o
Petroleum Ezportsa/                                         Public Debt,  ncl. guaranteed  2.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                            Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Annual          End
Averases       Pcriod           IDA LENDING, (Sep.30.1984)(US$Mln.)
1974-and Au  1983 Oct. 1983 
USS 1.00 - RuF                92.8B          97.0           Outstanding & Disbursed    125736
RvF 1.00 - USS                 0.011          0.010         Undisbursed                   89.51
ltF 1.00 * SDR                                0.010         Outstanding including
SDR 1.00 a RvF                              102.71            Undisbursed                215.07
1/  Includes Money and Quasi Money
2/  Provisional
;i Crude and Derivatives.
Ji Debt Service net of interest earned on foreign exchange reserves
as a percentage of Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable



- 32 -
AM II
Pqp 1   2
in -W ci UiK amI (ATI(35 IN so"~
As   Sta     of 33  Ciudts
(As of x,ww 303 1984)
Cmt Nb.            Fica Yw          BTW                    pRp                  (la    CWBI&W)
(M   iuiits bue bo  fu ly disie)N/                                             77.60
g93W 2/ 3/         19/   17                        ltdwA  A1wtwl   &
LiwstodL   1    8wImit    8.75        3.27
10391               190D                            Dmqited orestry &
L1tw & 1 tum              21.0O       7.50
1057-W              1981                            TOl    Fmizztims            7.5D       6.58
112_l               1981              W             Ol9Bl-dc                  M1.0D        7.63
1217-E              1982               -             acu1 Au1aan                5.0        4.14
1250-W              198Z                            Fifth RUIuy                25.90      17.19
I12-El              1982               -            Slo  mation                10.00       8.66
123-                1913               -hm R               I lahmera/
(1'dca/lIgZIgD            16.30       9.53
L34-                193                                   m                     7.OD       5.64
M345-               1963                            wter  Wy                   13.00      104.0
1495-W 41           1984               -             r                         9.00        9.00
Tbtal                     216.C5 51   89.51
of ,.deh h  bo  espd            0.98
iTEul -m autst3di          215.07
Amt sold              3.37
of :Mch bu bon repid  3.37
Total am beld by Mi         215.07
Mntel Xnilsbd                           89.51
1/  -mm  bw twivud no Bmkom.
*&f IK emAt was e2m zmtd by - BBC aSd    Acdz  (a!t of ISS1.7 u1114-.
Yi'   lthfr a It=D  (t PartLcIpim of 4.4 ulflim.
4bt ]t effmcdvw.
5    m  w  115.0 di limi binftttkg Uma ax! puv1Wd                      Ciw ugLinl R6ZL U
mdl *f2tic Piject fd *1p 4, 196



- 33 -
Pp 2 of 2
B. Stat t of WPC Invinuits in Rminda
(as of         30, 1984)
IlC's aemstg invsts in Ria cmprise th. tio uewutu prv1iouuly _   in
SozucM ad its 8M&am    c=mi    , SM and =M. MtaL1a am  as fo.Uaw.
s$ '000
= w|FI, .. L B8i. QPpe oE I=  w(
Tintsbiin'f   Fligl             iyt of                      1        ]by
UNabar     Yw or                h.ul   Eqd_   txm    Tbtal    -DC   Uhdfabzsud
337-U         1975     SIM/  )TRa pzroo-  -         535    535       2(         -
LEDE ) aisda
470W          1979     SDrAd*)               60 a/  226    286       151
Thtal                          60     761    m1        445
a/ Xl1e In 7/84.



- 34 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
Annex III
RWANDA
Technical Assistance Project
for the
Improvement of Public Finance Management
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification: September 1983
(b) Preparation: May-June 1984
(c) Appraisal: October 1984
(d) Negotiations: February 25-27, 1985
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1985
(I.      Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III.     Special Conditions
(a) MINIFINECO would coordinate project implementation (para.
59);
(b) by November 1, 1985, Government would (i) enact legislation
acceptable to the Association establishing MINIFINECO
Training Center, and (ii) appoint the Director of the
Training Center (para. 60);
(c) course syllabi would be submitted to the Association's
approval by June 1, 1986 (para. 60);
(d) Government would open a project account with the National
Bank of Rwanda, and would deposit USS 70,000 equivalent in
the project account, on January 1 and July 1, starting on
January 1, 1986 and ending on July 1, 19d8 (para. 61);
(e) Government would open a Special Account with the National
Bank of Rwanda (para. 61);
(f) long-term advisers would prepare yearly work programs to be
approved by their Rwandese supervisors and reviewed by the
Association, specifying the respective responsibilities of
expatriate and national staff (para. 64); and



- 35 -                           Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(g) the Government would assign qualified national staff in
sufficient numbers to participate in project activities
(para. 64).
Conditions of effectiveness
(a) Government would appoint a national project coordinator
(para. 59); and
(b) Government would deposit an initial amount of US$ 70,000
equivalent in the project account opened with the National
Bank of Rwanda (para. 61).
Conditions of Disbursement
Conditions of disbursement for project activities related to the
Training Center (disbursement categories a and b) would be (para.
60):
(a) the enactment of legislation acceptable to the Association to
establish the Training Center; and
(b) the appointment of the Training Center Director.



- 36 -                             Annex IV
Sage 1 of 4
Annex IV
Supplementary Data on the Proposed Training Center (CFP)
A. Draft Curriculum:
The following outline for the Training Center Curriculum, as well
as summary descriptions for each course, were agreed at appraisal. The
specific length of each course (number of course hours), and detailed
course syllabi would be defined as part of the specifications study.
The Training Center's curriculum should:
(i) provide the students with training strictly geared to their
future activities;
(ii) teach the general principles guiding administrative work and
the exercise of public authority;
(iMi) give a clear and accurate picture of the economic and
financial contexts in which the trainees will have to perform
their functions; and
(iv) provide the trainees with a mastery of the techniques and
procedures they will use in the discharge of their duties.
Accordingly. the curriculum should comprise core courses, and four
specialized streams: (i) customs; (ii) tax administration; (iii) budget
management and public accounting; and (iv) financial control.
I*. CORE CURRICULUM
A. Accounting and Management
1.   General accounting
2.   National Accounting Framework (Plan Comptable National)
3.   Balance sheet analyses
4.   Corporate accounting
5.   Cost accounting
B.   Taxation
1.   Income Taxes
2.   Local authorities and public entities finance
3.   Tax law
C.   Law
1.   Public Law
2.   Civil Law
3.   Commercial Law



37                              Annex IV
Page 2 of 4
D.   Economics
1.   Principles of Poli:;cal economy
2.   Public finance
E.   Administrative Procedures
1.   Administrative organization and financial institutions
2.   National accounts
3.   Report and letter writing
4.   Financial statistics and mathematics
II. SPECIALIZED STREAMS
A.   Customs                        B.   Taxation
o    Customs and excises           o   Management private
o    Customs tariff                     enterprise
o    Customs legislation           o   Income Taxes II
o    Customs procedures            o   Real Estate Taxes I + II
o    Disputes                      o   Taxes and Fiscal methods
o    Specialized commercial        o   Auditing returns and
law                               accounts
o    Methods and                   o   Internships
techniques of auditing
o    International contracts
o    Internships
C.   Budget & Public Accountin   D.   Financial Control
o    Management of public          o   Management of private
finances                          enterprises
o    Treasury operations and       o   Management of public
public accounting                 finances
o    Public accounting             o   Internal control
techniques                  o   External control
o    Budgetary statistios          o   Specialized commercial
o    Internships                       law
o   Internships
B.       Terms of Reference for the preparation of detailed specifications
Basic Principles
The Training Center would train 30 people per year. The target
population would be futire, as well as currently employed MINIFINECO staff,
and current and future financial managers in technical ministries,
parastatals, and development projects. Current training needs have been
evaluated at 300 current staff in MINIFINECO, and about 30 for current
financial managers. Of these 330, about 70 people would receive remedial
training under the project. The remainder of the currently employed staff
whose skills need upgrading (260), normal staff attrition in various
mihistries, and staffing development projects would justify the proposed
cohort size.



- 38 -
Annex IV
age -7of 4
Admission to the Center would be on the basis of an entrance
examination open to candidates having just completed thelr secondary
education, or to currently employed civil servants. Entrance examination
rules would specify the respective proportions between these two target
populations. Successful candidates would have a civil service trainee
status, while attending the Center. Upon graduation, which would be based
on satisfactory performance, trainees wou'd be bound by an obligation to
serve in MINIFINECO, as tinancial statt in tecinical ministries, or in
entities under the rhsponsibility of technical ministries (parastatals, or
development projects) tor a specified length of time. Breach of this
obligation would require trainees to reimburse the cost of their education
(including their salary as trainees).
The Center would provide a vocational-type training for mid-level
positions. The degree granted by the Center would be a "terminal" one, and
would not constitute a bridge towards further higher education. To that
end, CFP's two-year curriculum would comprise core courses, and four
specialized streams (customs specialist, tax specialist, budget and public
accounting specialist, and financial controller). The curriculum would
stress practical training, emphasizing concrete public administration
guidelines, actual procedures used by the Rwandese administration, and case
studies. Internships and class-room learning would alternate, and receive
equivalent importance.
The Center s faculty would be made of practitioners (in particular
technical assistance personnel), teaching on a part-time basis, and include
two full-time permanent instructors. Course syllabi would be prepared by
each instructor in charge, and approved by a Pedagogical Council composed
of the Directors-General of MINIFINECO, one representative from the Public
Administration Ministry (MINIFOPE), and one representative from the
Ministry of Higher Education (MINISUPRES). Internships and courses would
be graded, with constant monitoring of the trainees' status and progress.
Administratively, the Center would be attached to MINIFINECO, as a
separate department.  It would be housed in existing premises, which would
be renovated to meet CFP's functions, and to permit the concurrent
organization of ad hoc seminars for MINIFINECO staff. The Center's
administrative structure would be streamlined (one director, one deputy
director with support staff); no boarding would be offered.
Based on t1'? above principles, and with assistance from ADETEF,
the consultants would help national staff to define specifications in the
following areas:
Logistical Aspects:
-    evaluate the adequacy of the proposed renovations to the
IAMSEA building to carry out CFP's functions (including the
organization of ad hoc seminars simultaneously with courses
and specialized workshops);
-    analyze the proposals for equipping the Center (furniture,
teaching aids, pedagogical material, etc.).



Annex IV
Page 4 of 4
Administrative Aspects:
-    draw statutes for the internal organization of the Center;
-    develop and maintain a roster of practitioners who can teach
at the Center (civil servants, private sector accountants and
managers, technical assistance personnel), as well as
criteria for selecting them for the roster;
-    organize procedures for the entrance examinations.
Legal Aspects:
-    prepare, in collaboration with the Departments concerned,
draft legislation stipulating the status of CFP trainees.
Special attention would be paid to (a) linking performance
during training and career paths (especially entry level
would depend on results obtained in CFP); (b) reimbursement
of training costs for trainees who would elect to take
private sector jobs.
Pedagogical Aspects:
-    specify the details of the curriculum outlined above (A);
-    review course syllabi prepared by designated instructors for
submission to the Pedagogical Council;
-    define procedure3 for monitoring and evaluating the academic
performance of trainees;
-    prepare the first entrance examinations.



- 40 -
Annex V
Page 1 of 5
Annex V
Remedial Training Program
Description of the Training Modules
A detailed analysis of the immediate training needs of each Directorate in
MINIFINECO, carried out with each Director-General and with the staff
concerned led to identify eight training 'modules", corresponding to
specific functions in each Directorate General. Each module would make it
possible to train, at one time, in a specific program, a sufficient number
cf officials to create a critical mass that would produce an appreciable
change in operating procedures, and an improvement in the performance of
the services. These modules, described below, would be distributed as
follows:
Functions common to all Directorates:
1.       Financial Manager and Deputy Financial Manager
2.       Archivist!documentalist
Inspectorate General of Finance:
1.       Financial controller
Directorate General of Taxes:
1.       Tax auditor
2.       Assessment of personal income tax (land registration function)
3.       Statistics and information
Directorate General of the Budget:
1.       Treasury operations officer.
The other needs of this Directorate General relate essentially to
the clarification and simplification of budget procedures, and to debt
monitoring, Which tasks will be covered by the training activities of the
budgetary procedures and budget management specialist (cf Dara. 52 of main
report).
Directorate General of Public Accounting
The needs expressed stem essentially from the operation of the
accounting network, procedures for the census of property, and the
maintenance of budget statistics. These tasks will be covered by training
provided by the public accounting specialist (para. 52 of main report).
Directorate General of Customs:
1.       Training of officers in the implementation of the n'ew GATT
procedures for the definition of value.



- 41 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 5
1. Finance Manager/Deputy Manager
Oblectives:   to improve preparation of the budget, and monitoring of its
execution (including, in the long-term, the development
budget).
Content:       Budget preparation procedures:
o    listing of existing commitments
o    determination of new commitments
o    preparation of draft budget
o    iterations
o    establishment of budget estimates
Monitoring of budget execution:
o    preparation of an expenditure schedule
o    monitoring of consumption
o    control of forecast/consumption ratios
Management of funds and equipment:
o    follow-up by operation
o    follow-up by budget head
o    forecast of procurement and renewal of equipment,
amortizations
Target
Population:   Financial managers of Ministries and public agencies
concerned (25 persons).
Means:         Practical internships of about 2 months in services with
comparable functions and in the Budget Directorate of a
European ministry of finance.
2. Archivist/Documentalist
Objectives:   To improve the information channels (sorting and distribution
of mail, filing, establishment of dossiers).
Content:       Sorting methods
Wbrk organization
Mail transmission circuits
Target
Population:   Secretariat of the General Directorates
Means:         Seminar to be organized in Rwanda by the expert-documedcalist
serving under the IDA/UNDP project providing technical
assistance to the Ministry of Planning (IDA Credit 1217).



- 42-                               Annex V
Page 3 of 5
3. Financial Controller
Objectives:   To provide training for in-depth control of national
administrations and corporations (with emphasis on financial
management, personnel management, production and stock
management, and commercial management).
Content:       Case studies and concrete dossiers
Practical internships in the agencies supervised.
Target
Population:   20 financial controllers, to be trained by groups of 3 to 5
Means:         Liaison with the accounting training activities of the
"Organization and Accounting Pool' financed by the EEC; use
of technical assistance personnel in accounting and financial
analysis serving in various projects and in the Finance
Ministry (Belgian and Swiss cooperation, and later IMF); 4
month internship abroad (to be organized by ADETEF after
further needs analysis by a French Ministry official).
4. Tax Auditor
Objectives:   To permit a critical analysis of the accounting and
financial documents to be reviewed.
Content:       Principles of general accounting
Methods of balance sheet analysis
Methods of financial analysis
Techniques of documents control and local control
Internal auditing
Population:   35 auditors (including 25 in Kigali).
Means:         Same as financial controller module for accounting and
financial analysis; internships abroad in groups of 3 to 5
auditors.



- 43 -
Annex V
Page 4 of 5
5. Statistics and Information
Objeccives:   To acquire the necessary techniques for providing auditors as
quickly and exiaustively as possible with information that
would enable them to perform their control and evaluation
functions.
Content:       Simple and efficient methods of registration of tax payers.
Methods of detecting and identifying tax payers who failed to
fully fulfill their obligations.
Target
Population:   3 statistical officers plus the tax auditors.
Means:         Internships in the external services of a European General
Tax Directorate of 3 to 5 officers who would train their
colleagues.
6. Personal Income Tax Assessment
Objectives:   To achieve a standard and objective system of evaluation of
the personal income tax (properties built and not built).
Content:       Methods for the data gathering and physical measurements
relating to this function.
Techniques of land registration, preparation and updating of
appropriate land registration maps.
Target
Population:   4 persons plus the tax auditors.
3 would be trained first, to train the others.
Means:         Theoretical and practical training 'n cooperation with
technical officers of the Public Works Ministry. Where
appropriate, internships in comparable services in Europe.
7. Treasury Operations Officer
Objectives:   To prepare treasury officer recently assigned to the
execution of the daily tasks of monitoring the Treasury:
accounting, receipts and expenditures, control, and treasury
operations.
Contents:      Check accounting entries against treasury operations, control
of regularity of operations (expenditures and receipts)
Security, deposit
Expenditure control
Monitoring of national corporations



- 44 -
Annex V
Page e   of 5
Centralization and consolidation of accounts (accounting
standardization)
Target
Populstion:   2 current employed officers.
(1 at a time)
Means:         Tutoring by technical assistance personnel for all the
agents. Internship in zomparable units of a mature ministry.
8. GATT Definition of Value
Objective:    To prepare customs officers to apply t%he new GATT system for
the definition of value.
Target
Population:   Customs officers.
Means:         Training seminars with assistance from IMIF technical
assistance personnel.



45IA' -                         Annex VI
Page 1 of 4
Annex VI
Terms of Reference of the Long-Term
Advisers
Directorate-General of the Budget:
I.       Budget procedures and management specialist:  this expert would be
assigned as an dvisor to the Director General for a period of three
years, with a winding down period.
He would work in cooperation with MINIPLAN services responsible
for the development budget. It would be a temporary function aimed at
implementing new procedures. The tasks of this expert would be:
-    to organize and train staff as and When new procedures are
approved;
-    to examine current procedures for the preparation and
approval of the budget ('loi de finances');
-    to study and to propose possible budget reforms aized at a
better listing of receipts and expenditures of regular and
development budgets;
-    to develop a consolidated and exhaustive presentation of
Government's receipts and expenditures (regular and
development budget) as such, and of transfers to the
parapublic sector;
-    to obtain, if possible, an improvement in budget forecasting
procedures by:
o    seeking the integration of the budget in a multi-annual
framework;
o    studying the possibility of preparing program budgets
(public expenditures programs) which would integrate
recurrent expendiLures due, immediately or in the
long-term, to programmed investments;
o    refining arbitration criteria through the definition of
objective standards for cost appraisal;
o    defining criteria for a standardized presentation of the
budget.
-    to permit a more efficient public debt monitoring by seeking
means of improving:
o    the recording of existing loans;



- 46 -                             Annex VI
Page 2 of 4
o    the centralization of information about new loans;
o    the preparation and upiating of a schedule of repayments
(pri:Lcipal and debt service), in particular through the
preparation of a system of standardized forms. These
tasks would first be carried out manually on this system
of standardized forms, and would eventually be
computerized.
Directorate General for Public Accounting
II.      Public Accounting Specialist:  this expert would be assigned to
the Directorate General of Public Accounting for a period of two years,
with a winding down period. It would be a temporary position to propose and
aid in implementing the following actions:
-    to organize and train Ministry staff as and when new
procedures are adopted;
-    to ensure the recording and centralization of accounting
documents as reliably and quickly as possible;
-    to prepare an accrual basis accounting system and to define
procedures and circuits for its application;
-    to strengthen and fine-tune the system of statistics of
budget execution, with a view to the establishment of public
finance indicators;
-    to define, in cooperation with the Directorate General of the
Budget, the necessary framework for the accounting of
operations to be included in program budgets.
Inspectorate General of Finances
III.     Business Management Spec4.alist:  this expert would be assigned for
three years, with a winding down period to the State Investments Control
Directorate.  His tasks would be as follows:
-    to help spell out the respective powers and duties of the
State Investments Control Directorate and of the State
Portfolio Division, when the latter becomes operational;
-    to participate in the continuing training of the financial
controllers by supervising them in their control mission;
-    to prepare inspection and control procedures for Government
agencies, and national corporations (evaluation grids,
investigation methods, calculation and interpretation of
significant ratios, etc.);



- 47 -
Annex VI
Page 3 of 4
-    to improve decision-making on financial participations of the
Government and transfers to the perastatal sector;
-    to assist In the formulation of plans for the reorganization
of the agencies in which Government participates; and
-    to provide, as needed, backstopping to the national project
coordinator in managing project activities.
Tnis expert would have the background of a certified public
accountant.
To achieve those objectives, the specialist will have to establish
and maintain appropriate relations with the 'Accounting and Organization
Pool", financed by the EEC.
IV. Training Specialist
The training specialist would first assist the national project
coordinator in carrying out the detailed specifications study (see sparate
description). Once CFP's Director is appointed, the adviser would provide
assistance in starting-up the Center. Throughout, specialized assistance
would be provided through short backstopping missions by staff of the
Center for Professional Training and Upgrading attached to the French
M-nistry of Finance (in the context of the twinning arrangement).
V. Computer Systems Analyst
Two missions (financed under the PPF) would first be undertaken:
Ci) to define the tax application; and (ii) to define the customs
application. For each, the following tasks would be undertaken:
-    to analyse the system to be computerized, and to seek
clarification of procedures as needed;
-    to define a phased plan of action for the introduction of
micro-computers in the concerned Directorate;
-    to define the system's specifications (hardware and software)
based on the needs of each .nit, and taking into account
staff capabilities;
-    to prepare bid requests, and specifications lists; and
-    to help evaluate bids, install the equipment, and train staff
in its use.
Once new budgetary and accounting procedures are defined, the tax
and customs applications would be integrated into a central computer system
based on a minicomputer, with intelligent terminals. The system would
automatize the budgetary process. The analyst would conduct the necessary
work following the same steps as above. Special attention would be paid to
permitting debt monitoring, and producing timely financial indicators.



- 48 -                            Annex VI
Page 4 of 4
The analyst would collaborate with the National Computer Service
and the BNR to ensurc compatibility of all exiLtiog systems.
In all activities, special attention would be paid to define
adequate standardization criteria, and to ensure proper maintenance and
support services.
VI. Programmer
The programmer would arrive one month before delivery of the
mini-computer. He/she would design appropriate software to run the system
(in particular monitoring of public debt and periodic production of
financial indicators on, inter alia, resource availability, and budget
execution), and train Rwandese staff. He/she would stay in Rwanda for 24
months, with a winding do-an period.



- 49 -
Antiex VII
.W_
rag   1f 1
Annex Vll
Detailed Cost Table by Component
(US$ thousand equivalent)
Foreign   Local   Total
Training Center
Investment Costs                     190      125     315
Operating Costs                       -       325     325
Salaries of Trainees                  -       270     270
Sub-total          190     720      910
Remedial Training
Modules                              600       50     650
Study Tours                           50        -      50
Sub-total          650      50      700
Long-term Advisers                   1,500      370   1,870
Backstopping Missions
20 missions                           70       10      80
Software and material                 20        -      20
Sub-total           90       10     100
Short-term Consultants                 310       80     390
Computerization
Two fellowships abroad                30        -      30
Improvement of facilities             50       50     100
Hardware and software packages       400        -     400
Sub-total          480       TO     530
Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicle purc,hase  (7)                70        -      70
Vehicle operating costs                -       100    100
Office equipment and furniture        30        20     50
Sub-total          100      120    220
Total Base Costs                     3,320    1,400  4,720
Contingencies
Price                                320       180    500
Physical                              50        20     70
Sub-total          370      200    570
Total Project Costs                  3,690    1,600  5,290



- 50 -                            Annex VIII
Page 1 of 1
Annex VIII
Procurement Table
Item                           Amount                             Method
(US $ thousands)
Base Costs
1. Vehicles                          7U                  local shopping (3 quotations)
2. Equipment for
MINIFINECO (excluding
computers)                        50                  local shopping (3 quotations)
3. Computers                        400                  international competitive
bidding
4. Equipment for CFP                115                  local shopping (3 quotations)
for grouping under $ 100,000
5. Renovation of CFP
premises                         200                  local competitive bidding or
force account, whichever is
the least cost method
6. Improvement of                                        local competitive bidding or
MINIFINECO facilities                                 force account, whichever is the
for mini-computer                100                  least cost method



RWANDA                                                                       U
ROAD NETWORK                                                                         U
-        Paved Roods                                     Rutsru
Moai Grovel and Eortk Roads
-   *    Nothnol Capitol
oD   Cities and Towns                      REPUBLIC  OF
-   '\)  R,versindLoakes                         ZAIRE             ) C k 
--   - Intemolional Boundories
a,~~~~~~~~   . . K4.
I A /t I  /"
jf)     Gem/se~~,r%nyi R G WO
<s>s  /    " %              a            aLN
Kibuye
am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y
as  ha A r    fp iaas ha IA;
.umun          C MW ,.udm) .1
iha ,u.p.u,uEd ae d t
he..dwdee lAm tan ttua pupw
W7mfp  wang *pt o ow                                                    Msu.b 
WbUXe.* mdta u s. m                            ---                              I          '
~~f - Ule Iegelbare Gakon/of
8u fjre
_  {- -ama
REPUBLIC   OF                             /                           C.
ZAIRE                                              U U  N U N D                        1
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9'  ''  



IBRD 14634
-  Mb|aro S  Kompuli                                NQVEMUH 1979
I0.
|U  G  A  N  D A                                           Kohi tumb 
K~~~~~~~~~~Kbl
';                                                                                  k   TANZANIA
'C
-.Ruhengeri       A
S..                                                  J              !        f    
shllwou   t  W1E  >   V         {           /     1.o,    AKJG E R 
!  c ;i'A r"o  s  )                                                        R-. e- hjama 9  ,/4  SPAR
rC                               /      so
*1   ~           '0    20   ~o        'a     so evon0  J)
.'~~ ~~~ I I  1                                                                 If   \         I   K           .
-  /C                                20          30 _ U4 { / e ;0 N O
0  ^  9 PA 1K/                                                                   MIE
t  i S               R     lt              t                  i*'' '                       , g so
|~~~1               t   9   b                                                                       3 4
oka ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ eJrnn "s  
\\  u                        K.                                            aiA.~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
5  >zZr t \ \ R \ * y15 \ 3~~~~~~~bncl
4irsV _/~~~~~~~~~~J                                                                                   L  k X)3
o~~~~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                     A. N Z   A6 NA Abobio ._, 
9uta,e*             !' I           U!  R  U N  DI/ 
!)  10    20      30     40      so     so    To      so
u  ,f  ;_<  >       T                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOPAETERS
*  iS  <          |             0           10         Z ~~~~ ~              ~ ~ ~~0 50  40  50
|%~~~~~~~~~O    .0 ti f1    10.






