Doawunt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rpo,tNo 12232
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE DMPROVEMNT
OF PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEKENT
(CREDIT 1565-RU)
AUGUST 6, 199'.
MICROGRAPHICS
Repo' t No: 12232
Type: PCR
Country Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a resricted distnibutfon and may be usd bv recipients only in the performance of
deir offcial duties Its contents may not othedwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(period average)
Currenvcy Unit - Rwanda Franc (RwF)
1985: USS1.00    D         RwF 101.26
1986: USS1.00     -        RwF 87.64
1987: USS1.00    -         RwF 79.69
1988: USS1.OO              RwF 76.4S
1989: US$1.00              RwF 79.98
1990: US$1.00     =        RwF 82.60
1991: USSI.00              RwF 125.14
1992: US$1.00    =         RwF 1.32.04
FISCAL YEAR
Januay I - December 31
GLOSSARY / ABBREVIATIONS
ADETEF                    Association pour le D6veloppement des Technologies Economiqas et Financites
(Association for the Development of Eoonomic and Fmancial Tecahnologies).
BNR                        Banque Nationale du Rwanda (National Bank of Rwanda).
-C-                       Comitt Intcrministdriel de Coordination (Interministerial Coordinating Committee).
EEC               -        European Economic Community
CCI                       Comite Consultatif Interministeriel (Interministeriai Advioty Committee).
ISFP                      Institut Supdrieur des Fmances Publiques (Public Finarce Institute)
MWNIFINECO        -        Minastbre des Finances et de IEconomie (Ministry of Finance and Exonomy).
MINIFOPE          -        Miniatere de la Fonction Publique et de Ia Formation Professionnelle (Public Administratlon
and Vocational Training Ministry).
MINIPLAN                   MinistOre du Plan (Ministry of Planning).
MINISUPRES                 Ministere de I'ltnseignement Supericur et de la Recherche (Higher Education and Research
Ministry).
OED                        Operations Evaluation Department.
PCR               -        Project Completion Report.
UNDP              -        United Nations Development Program.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                             BritishAJS Equivalcnts
I meter (m)                        3.3 feet
I hectare                          2.47 acres
I are (100m2)                      0.02 acre
1 kilometer (km)                   0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)           039 square miles (sq.mi.)
1 kilogam (kg)                     2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                        0.26 US gallons (gal)
metric ton (m ton)                Z204 pounds b)



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offico of Dlreotoreonoral
Oporators Evaluation
August 6, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECIORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECR: Project Completion Report on Rwanda
Technical Assistance Project for the Improvement
of Public Finance Management (Credit 1565-RW)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Rwanda - Technical Assistance Project for
the Improvement of Public Finance Management (Credit 1565-RW) prepared by the Africa
Regional Office. The Government of Rwanda did not prepare a Part II of this report, but it did
inform the Africa Regional Office that it had no comments and agreed with the report's findings
and conclusions.
This report was prepared by the Region in parallel with OED's Performance Audit Report
(PAR) which was submitted to the Executive Directors and the President (Report No. 12099, dated
June 29, 1993), along with the PCR and PAR for a preceding technical assistance operation in
Rwanda.
The findings, conclusions and ratings of the PCR on Credit 1565-RW are well in line with
those reported in the PAR.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This documet has a restriced diadbution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of their offcial dutie. Its
contents may not otherwie be disclosed without Word Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROIJE FOMR THE IMPROVEMENT OF
PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT
(CREDIT 1565-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE .................................................(i)
EVALUATION SUMMLARY .1
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECWVE .3
L   lytRODUCrION ...................................                .       3
H.                                    .3E SETING                            3
m. THE PROJECr.                                                             4
Project Objectives.                                                     4
Project Description.                                                    4
Project Concept and Design                   .5
Benefits and Risks.                                                     6
IV. IWLNETTO                .....................    7
Overal Performance.                                                     7
Disbursements.                                                          8
Training of MlNFNTEC and Other Staff.                                   8
Improvement of Tax, Customs, Budgetary and Accounting Procedures        9
Improvement of Financial Management of the Parastatal Sector Portfolio  10
Improvement of Economic Policy Making .10
Government Performance .11
Bank Performance .11
Project Documentation and Data .12
V. PROJECT RESULTS AND IMPACr   .........................           ...   12
VL CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .12
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                       14
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



page
PART m  - STATISTICAL INFORMATION                  ..........................    15
1. Related lDA Credits              ......................                    15
2. Project Tunetable    ........          ......................    16
3.Credit Disbursements    ....................................                 17
4. Project Implementation    .................          .............    18
5. Project Costs and Financing   ..............................                19
6. Project Results   ..............................                            19
7. Status of Covenants   ..........           ....................   20
8. Use of Bank Resources    ................    .................    21



(i)
PROJEC' COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR
THE IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT
(CREDIT 1565-RW)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technic.l Assistance Project for the
Improvement of Public Finance Management in Rwanda, for which Credit 1565-RW in the
amount of SDR 4.9 million was approved on March 21, 1985. The credit became effective on
January 10, 1986 and was closed on June 30, 1992, (except for Category 4 of Schedule I of the
Credit Agreement) two and a half years behind schedule. Category 4 of Schedule I of the Credit
Agreement for computers in part C of Project, was closed on September 30, 1992, with
disbursement allowed up to December 30, 1992). The last disbursement under the Credit was on
January 19, 1993. Only SDR 2.8 million (or about 58% of the Credit) was disbursed, and the
balance was cancelled in February 1993.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of the South-Central and
Indian Ocean Department (AF3CO). There was no completion mission. The Bank sent the
Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II. The Borrower did not have any
comments.
The PCR is based on the President's Report, the Credit Agreement, reports by and
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, interviews of
Bank staff who have been associated with the Project over the years, and two OED reports:
Rwanda - Evaluation d'un Projet d'Assistance Technigue (credit 1565-RW) - Etude de Cas -
4 Mai 1989, and Free-Standing Technical Assistance for I-Istitutional Development in Sub-
Saharan Africa, Report N° 8573. dated April 1990. However. the preparation of the PCR has
been made particularly difficult in the absence of progress reporLs lor the Project, of Project
accounts and of satisfactory audit reports.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF
PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT
(CREDIT 1565-RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
(i)    The Government's main objective was to improve, through the Project, the
management of public finances. To that end, the Project aimed at: (a) training staff in the
Ministry of Finance and Economy (MINIFINECO) and financial managers in technical ministries,
parastatals and development projects entities; (b) improving procedures for budget preparation
and execution; and (c) strengthening Government capacity for economic policy making (paragraph
7).
Implementation experiencc
(ii)   Performance on the Project was overall unsatisfactory. All components
experienced substantial delays and some were barely implemented. The credit became effective
after protracted discussions on the role of ADETEF (Association pour le D6veloppement des
Techniques Economiques et Financieres) and administrative arrangements for the supervising
team. In any event, the Government failed to allocate the necessary human resources to manage
and implement such a complex Project. There was no implementation Master Plan for the Project
as a whole, and the situation was made even more difficult by the Government approach of
recruiting long term advisers individually, instead of as a team through a consulting firm, as
recommended in the President's Report. It seems that the Rwandese team in charge of
implementing the project was not always convinced of the usefulness and priority of the Project,
especially after the civil service reshuffling of 1989. Obviously, the armed conflict, which started
in late 1990 and continued intermittently till the credit closing date, did not provide a fertile
ground for carrying out a project of this kind. With few exceptions, Bank supervision of the
Project by Headquarters staff has been superficial. Despite a two and-a-half year extension of the
closing date, 42% of the credit had to be cancelled (paragraphs 18 to 35).
Results
(iii)  The Project did not achievc its primary objective of improving public finance management.
The training component had some uscful results. However, despitc the development of a new
budget nomenclature, and the preparation of sector expenditure programs the Project did not
substantially improve the procedures for budget preparation and execution, or strengthen
Government capacity for economic policy making. The institutional impact of the Project is
negligible (paragraph 36).



2 -
Sustainability
(iv)   The sustainability of the limited results achieved is unlikely (paragraphs 18 to 36).
Findings and lessons learned
(v)   A number of lessons can ke drawn from the experience of this project: (a) a sound project
concept and design need to include a detailed implemcntation and supervision manual, with the
definition of a strategy, precise operational objectives, steps to be followed, by whom and by
when; (b) a project of such complexity and scope cannot be successful without a strong
Government commitment and the assignment of motivated staff who internalize the project
objectives; (c) implementation would most likely be facilitated by recruiting experts as a team
through a specialized consulting firm; and (d) the Bank should riot finance institutional
development projects which by nature are complex unless it is prepared to invest in intensive
supernsion, including consultants with the necessary expertise (paragraphs 36 to 39).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF
PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT
(Credit 1565-RW)
PART I . PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECrIVE
T - INTRODUCITON
1.    This project, for which an IDA credit of SDR 4.9 million was approved on March 21,
1985, was the second technical assistance operation supported by the Bank in Rwanda.
II - THE SE2ITING
2.    The May 1983 Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) skowed that the policy
framework and instruments of policy which appear to have served Rwandese development in the
late 1970s would not be adequate or appropriate to meet the challenges of changed circumstances
in the latter part of the 1980s. Given the importance that the public sector continued to play in
the economy, improving public finance management was considered a high priority. Major
weaknesses, including weak linkages between development plans and public investment programs
and lack of comprehensiveness of the budgetary process, were attributed to problems and
deficiencies in inter-ministerial coordination, budgetary procedures and staffing.
3.    Partly as a result of the Technical Assistance Project to MINIPLAN (study Fund I -
Credit 1217-RW) which included an Interministerial Advisory Committee, the Government acted
to improve inter-ministerial coordination by setting up in October 1984, seven Interministerial
Coordination Committees (CIC), two of which were expected to be particularly concerned with
economic management issues: the CIC on Economic Policy and the CIC on Planning and
International Cooperation. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance and Economy
(MINIFINECO) recognized the importance of improving the budgetary process which required
changes in policies to increasc the mobilization or domestic resources and improve efficiency of
expenditure, as well as in structures and procedures. Many o lthe existing deficiencies could be
traced to the lack of skilled staff in all ministries, exacerbated by inappropriate procedures for
hiring, assigning and promoting civil servants.
4.    The first technical assistance project had focussed on improving the project preparation
process and on establishing the foundations for investment programming. Given the involvement
of other donors in some priority areas of resource mobilization and financial management, the
government and the Bank agreed that the new project would focus essentially on improving
budgetary and expenditure control and place special emphasis on training.



- 4 -
III - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
5.    The Government's main objective was to improve, through the project, the management
of public finances. To that end, the project aimed at:
(a)   training (i) staff in MINIFINECO and (ii) financial managers i1i technical
ministries, parastatals, and development projects;
(b)   improving procedures for budget preparation and execution; and
(c)   strengthening Government capabilities for economic policy making.
Project Description
6.    The Project comprised the following components:
(a)   training for MINIFINECO staff and for financial managers in other ministries and
selected parastatal agencies through:
(i)   establishment of a Training Center in MINIFINECO (detailed
accommodation schedules, renovation of existing premises, furniture and
equipment, one training specialist for three years, and short backstopping
missions);
(ii)   remedial training for current staff (training modules, study tours, and high
level seminars);
(b)   improvement of tax, customs, budgetary procedures, and accounting practices
through:
(i)   technical assistance (one budgetary procedures and budget management
specialist for three years, one public accounting specialist for iwo years, and
short backstopping missions);
(ii)   phased introduction of automated data processing (including appropriate
hardware, software, one computer specialist for three years, one
programmer for two years, in-service training, two one-year fellowships
abroad, and short backstopping missions);
(c)   improvement ol financial management ol the parastatal sector portfolio through
services of one business management specialist for three years;
(d)   improvement of economic policy-making through provision of short-term
consultant services; and
(e)   vehicles and equipment.



-5 -
Proiect Concept and Design
7.    The Project resulted from discussion of the May 1983 Country Economic Memorandum
with the authorities which highlighted the need to improve the management of public finances.
The Project was prepared by a task force composed of MINIFINECO's Directors-General (who
made important contributions to thc design of the training component and the preparation of
terms of reference for the long term advisers and Bank staff). According to Bank internal
documents, the Government's initial commitment to the Project was demonstrated by its readiness
to proceed expeditiously with securing an IDA credit rather than having to wait for UNDP grant
financing.
&     The Project was intended to be only one of the building blocks designed to help the
Government reach, over the long term, four key objectives: (a) improve the comprehensiveness
and transparency of public accoupts; (b) improve and integrate the budgetary and planning
processes (preparation of multi-year public expenditure programs); (c) to strengthen the internal
coherence of the budget; and (d) hcttcr reconcile the demand for public si -vices with resource
constraints. In a way, it would complement other Bark Group-financed projects (the first
technical assistance project, a proposed project to strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture's
budgetary and financie! management functions, and the training components of other projects)
and other donors' activities (the IMF, Belgium and Switzerland for tax administration, and the
EEC for the accounting and management systems of the parastatals).
9.    The training component was straightforward in concept and design. The Training Center
was intended both to train national staff, and to introduce objective criteria for the future
selection and promotion of personnel in MINIFINECO. In order to meet immediate staff
upgrading needs, the component included also a remedial training program. The design of the
training component was shared and understood by all relevant parties, its scope, scale and timing
were appropriate, and it was well prepared (in quite some detail in the case of the remedial
training program) with terms of reference, draft curriculum and training modules. It included
financing of one training specialist for 36 months to help steer the detailed studies and start up
operations. It is not clear, however, how the Training Center could in itself help address, even on
a limited and experimental scale, the constraints on civil service personnel management.
10.   Regarding the improvement of budgetary and accounting procedures, the terms of
reference for the two long term advisers which were agreed during appraisal focussed on the
design and implementation of improved procedures and methods, and training of staff. It might
have been better to also reach agreement at appraisal on detailed work programs, with
identification of operationai targets, next steps and deadlines. Instead, the project called for the
long-term advisers to prepare annual work programs which would be approved by their Rwandese
supervisors and reviewed by IDA. The President's Report refers to "a phased Master Plan that
had been approved" to permit the automation of data processing and the design of that part of
the project included, inter alia, a computer systems analyst for 36 months that would analyze,
define and implement a phased plan of action for the introduction of micro-computers in the
concerned directorates. There is no evidence that the Master Plan was used during project
implementation.
11.   The design and concept ol Lhe components for "the Management of Public Sector
Portfoiio" and "the Strengthening of Economic Decision-Making" were rather vague, and are
unlikely to have been shared and understood by all relevant parties. The roles and responsibilities
of the concerned directorates were not clearly defined and understood. Moreover, those



-6-
components were affected by the reorganization of the Rwandese administration in early 1989.
The responsibility for economic policy formulation was transferred from the Ministrv of Finance
to the Ministry of Planning and several of the key technicians of the Ministry of Finance who had
been closely associated with the project design were transferred to other departments as part of
the widespread civil service reshuffle.
12.   A particular feature of the design of the Project was a twinning arrangement with the
French Ministry of Finance and Economy through the 'Association pour le D6veloppement des
Technologies Economiques et Financi6res- ADETEF (a non profit, voluntary association of civil
servants in the French Ministry of Finance). A Protocol between the French arid the Rwandese
Ministry, approved by IDA during negotiations, was signed on March 5, 1985. Undcr this three-
year agreement, ADETEF committed itself to provide short term backstopping missions by its
own staff, advice (including assistance for the recruitment of experts) and training seminars. This
general framework was supposed to be complemented by "particular contracts" specifying 12-
month work programs. The Credit would cover travel and subsistence expenses for short term
missions, b-it no professional fees would be charged by French officials. It should be noted that
the twinning concept did not apply to the long term advisers or experts who would be selected by
the Rwandese Government and who, with the exception of the training specialist, would be
"recruited as a team, preferably through a consulting firm", according to the President's Report.
13.   Regarding Project Implementation and Management, MINIFINECO would appoint a
national project coordinator chosen among high level officials having closely followed project
preparation and acceptable to IDA. Originally, the Project included a technical assistance position
to help the national coordinator manage the Project, but this was dropped during negotiations of
the Credit at the request of the Rwandese delegation. As a result, there was nobody, either
Rwandese or expatriate, assigned full time to facilitate project implementation. Nor was any
particular arrangement made to ensure that project accounts would be kept.
Benefits and Risks
14.   According to the President's Report, at the end of the Project period, Government should
have improved control over the budgetary process, front resource constraint identification to
monitoring of budget execution. The introduction of computers should help to produce timely
indicators, and improvements in policy-making should help put this inlormation to better use in
the adoption of adjustment measures. Training activities should help to remedy the current lack of
skills. The establishment of the Training Center should help to introduce objective criteria for the
recruitment and promotion of staff and to start a dialogue on the management of civil service
careers. Support to the CIC mechanism should help strengthen interministerial coordination.
15.   The major risks were linked to the speed with which reforms (particularly the introduction
of new principles in the selection and promotion of staff) would be appro-ved and implemented.
The President's Report stated that these potential difficulties had been minimized because of the
close involvement of Ministry ollicials at all levels in the design of the Project, including
preparation of terms of rcfercncc for the long term advisers and the assessment of training needs.
Moreover, twinning arrangements should provide backstopping by a mature entity, with extensive
experience in specialized training and in meeting the special needs of sub-Saharan African
countries.



- 7 -
IV- IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Performance
16.   Performance on the Project was overall unsatisfactory. The project docs not seem to have
achieved its primary objective of improving the management of public finances. Thc training
component had some positive results, but although some useful work was done on public
accounting and budget nomcnclature as well as on preparation or sector expcnditurc programs, it
cannot be said that the Project substantially improved procedures for budget preparation and
execution, or strengthened Government capabilitics for economic policy making. The sustainability
of the Project is unlikely, and its institutional impact is negligible. Despite a two and-a-half year
extension of the closing date, disbursements fell short of appraisal estimates and 42 % of the
Credit had to be cancelled.
17.   The Project got off to a shaky start and never recovered fully due to: a lack of strong
government commitment during the implementation phase; an apparent misunderstanding of the
role of ADETEF and disagreements over administrative matters (travel arrangement for
ADETEF supervisory team); and 1requent changes in the staff assigncd to the Project on the
Bank side. Close supervision by the Bank. with substantive inputs, would have been required to
close the few gaps in project preparation and the detailed implementation programs. ADETEF
did not provide the short term assistance that could have been expected. At the beginning of the
Project, the Government did not try to recruit the .long term advisers as a team, through a
consulting firm]/; there were delays in the recruitment of advisers, some advisers had to be
replaced due to unsatisfactory performance; and in the absence of detailed operational objectives
and monitorable action programs, the work of the advisers has not been as productive as it could
have been.
18.   The training component met with somc degree ol success. From the limited information
available in the tiles, it appears that the Institut Supericur dcs Finances Publiques (ISFP), which
started operation one year laie, traincd an average of 30 people a year, in line with the appraisal
estimates. It seems that the remedial training was also carried out (however, little information is
available), and that some money was spent on fellowships; on the other hand, study tours did not
materialize although some had been arranged. Because of the small number of trainees, the cost
of the ISFP per trainee has been relatively high. It does not seem that any progress has been
made in terms of introducing objective criteria for the future selection and promotion of
personnel in MINIFINECO (one might argue that such an objective was somewhat beyond the
scope of this Project).
19.   The component on the management ol public sector portfolio was restructured inlto a full
fledged Public Enterprise Relorm Project approvcd in 1987. The component for strengthening
economic decision-making did not move during the earlier implementation phase of the project;
however, towards the end of the project the component was used to preparc public enterprise
studies and sectoral public expenditure programs under the SAL. In general, these components
were negatively affected by the rcorganization of the Rwandesc administration in early 1989 (see
para. 13).
jj    In the last years ol the Project, ADETEF helped recruit a lull team ol long-term
experts and operated like a consulting lirm.



- 8 -
20.   The portion of the Credit that was used was disbursed in accordance with Schedule I of
the Development Credit Agreement. In view of incomplete Project accounts and of
unsatisfactory audit reporting, it is not known how much local resources the Government
contributed to the Project. The availability of counterpart funds, however, does not seem to have
been a problem (there is some reference in the files to some expenditures, like for the Training
Center, being paid directly by Government).
21.   The failure of the Project can be attributed in part to the fact that the Project was not
properly managed by the Government nor adequately supervised by the Bank. There seems to
have been a lack of continuity of government commitment during project implementation. The
national project coordinator should have been more directly involved in the budget process to be
able to exert effective control on the various components, with the assistance of a full time staff
for day to day tasks including an accountant. Despite several attempts by Bank staff (in the
context of negotiation and supervision of the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) in 1991-92) to
seek the intervention of the Minister of Finance to improve project implementation, the
Rwandese authorities did not demonstrate a sufficient commitment to the project. Part of the
reason appears to have been the reluctance of the authorities to use non grant financed
expatriate staff. By the time the authorities finally appeared willing to take remedial action in
1992, the Bank had alrcady decided to closc thc credit. On the Bank side, apart from some
attempts in late-1987 and mid-1988 to salvage the Project, supervision of the Project has been
superficial.
Disbursements
22.   The Credit became effective on January 10, 1986. Disbursements got off to a slow start
and never picked up appreciably. Despite an extension of the closing date by two and a half years,
42 % of the Credit amount had to be cancelled in February 1993. Actual disbursements for
equipment, vehicles and operating costs (excluding those for training) were twice the amount
allocated in the Disbursement Credit Agreemcnt, but there were substantial shortfalls in all other
categories, including the PPF advance (which was not used as iLtended to get the Project going
before credit effectiveness). Disbursements for training were about 40% of estimates. The cost of
rehabilitating and equipping the training center was much less than estimated, and decreasing
percentages were used for the operating costs. The remedial training was on a somewhat reduced
scale, with no study tours. Disbursements for consultants were less than 60% of the allocated
amount, because of a smaller number of persons/months due to delays in the recruitment of long
term experts and limited use of short term consultants. Disbursements for equipment for the
computerization program were about 85% of the allocated amount.
Training of' MINIFINECO and othcr stall'
23.   The establishment of a Training Cenier for the stalY of MINIFINECO was a priority of
Ministry officials at the time of project preparation. The enactment of legislation creating the
Center and the appointment of a Director, expected by November 1985, were conditions of
disbursement for that sub-component. The Center was supposed to start operations in October
1986. The Institut Superieur des Finances Publiques (IPFP) was ofricially established by a law of
June 20, 1986, its Director was appointed in November 1986, and it started operations in 1987
with 22 students. During 1987-91, the number of students averaged 29 per year, compared to the
President's Report estimate of 30. Thc 1989 OED case study concluded that the establishment of
ISFP was a positive aspect of the Project, but raised a number of unresolved issues: the relatively
high cost of the training; the problem of equivalence of diplomas; the linkages or absence thereof



with other training institutions financed by IDA, UNDP, the Federal Republic of Germany, etc...;
whether such a training center would not have been better placed under the authority of the
Higher Education and Research Ministry (MINISUPRES) or the Public Administration and
Vocational Training Ministry (MINIFOPE); and whether the Government would be able to
sustain the cost of operating ISFP. It claimed that there had not been any real diagnosis of the
existing situation for training of financial civil servants and that no strategy had been elaborated.
It pointed out that ISFP in itself cannot solve the problems of career management in
MINIFINECO. While acknowledging that the training had been useful, it recommended a
different approach and a reorientation of the sub-component. Finally, the effectiveness of ISFP
suffered from the high staff turnover, a problem that also plagued the remedial training program.
24.   According to the President's Report, a detailed analysis of the training needs of each
MINIFINECO's Directorate-general led to the identification of eight training modules, which
were prepared in some detail. For each, the target population, content and delivery .node were
specified. That remedial training program which also included high level seminars abroad and 10
study tours of 30 days each, would benefit 70 MINIFINECO staff, as well as staff of other
ministries and organizations. The 1989 OED case study mentioned that: (i) 25 seminars were
organized, with an averagc of 22 participants during 6.2 days, which represent about 3,500
days/participants for the training of about 500 staff; (ii) the study tours did not take place; and
(iii) about 15 staff benefitted from fellowships for training abroad. The contents of the seminars
were somewhat different from the training modules that had been prepared, and the participants
themselves gave high ratings to seminars that dealt with practical questions of particular relevance
for their daily activities.
Improvement of Tax. Customs. Budgetary and Accounting Procedurts
25.   The scope of this component goes beyond procedures per se to include also structures and
budgetary management as well as tax administration and customs. The objective of improving
procedures for the preparation, management and implementation of the budget would be
achieved through technical assistance and the phased introduction of automated data processing.
Although terms of reference for the long term advisers had been prepared during appraisal and
agreed during negotiations, the preparation of that component remained incomplete. While the
general objective was clear, there was no strategy on how to achieve it, including detailed
operational objectives, an identification of the steps to be followed and the means to be allocated
and a timetable for implementation.
26.   In January 1986, the Rwandese authorities recruited directly, without any assistance from
ADETEF, a UNDP expert that had already spent ten years in Rwanda, as long term adviser for
budgetary procedures. For the first 18 months, he continued to serve as adviser to the minister,
and it is only in the last five months of his employment (up to November 1987) that he was
assigned to work with the Director-general of the Budget. Basically, his work was not relevant to
the objective of the Project. A new expert was appointed in July 1989, who apparently remained
on the job until June 30, 1992. He made a diagnosis of the main problems with the budget and
developed a new budget nomenclature. The long term adviser on public accounting was in many
respects productive and successful. Recruited in June 1986, he developed a work program related
to the Project's objectives, and reported regularly on the progress of his work. Among his
achievements, one might mention the drafting of new accounting regulations and the introduction
of the bank transfer method for the payment of civil servants, as well as the training of staff both
at the ISFP and at seminars dealing specif-ically with public accounting issues. However, his work



- 10 -
ran against a sequencing problem since he could not proceed any further without a new budget
nomenclature.
27.   The Project aimed at the gradual introduction of computers into MINIFINECO. and the
objective of the new system to be installed was to improve monitoring of the country's external
debt and budget execution, and production of timely financial indicators. Although there are
many references in the files on this computerization component, the situation is quite confused.
The President's-Report indicates that a phased master plan had been approved te permit the
automation of data processing. It seems that, with the assistance of ADETEF, a master plan for
computerization was prepared in 1986/87, and equipment was purchased in early 1989. The long
term computer adviser mentioned in the President's Report was recruited with considerable delays
and his confract was abruptly terminated as a result of a disagreement on his role. Some
technical assistance was provided in the form of short term missions; also, fellowships were used
for the training of staff, and a local firm was contracted to assist with bid evaluation, the start up
of the new system and the training of staff, but the contract was cancelled before its normal
completion. Additional computers were purchased in 1992 after the newly appointed Minister of
Finance became aware of the need to upgrade the work of the ministry and to modernize the
existing equipment to be able to better monitor the budgetary aspects of the structural adjustment
program. In this context'it was decided to "cofinance" UNDP's SYDONIA project to
computerize the Customs Directorate, and to also use a system developed by the tax advisor in an
IMF implemented project to computerize the Tax Directorate.
Improvement of Financial Management of the Parastatal Sector Portfolio
28.   This component consisted ol fonc business management specialist to be assigned for 36
months to the Inspectorate Gencral of Finance, State Investment Control Directorate, to help
design control procedures and standardized methods for the analysis of the performance of public
enterprises. Maybe because the profile of the expert to be recruited was not well defined, the
first expert recruited by the Rwandese authorities did not perform satisfactorily, and two
candidates proposed by ADETEF were not recruited. It is only in November 1988, that an expert
with satisfactory qualifications and experience was finally recruited. In the meantime, the
government proposed to use up to US$450,000 out of the proceeds of the credit to finance
studies required for the preparation of a public enterprise reform project. The proposal made
sense and the Bank agreed to the Government's request.
Improvement of Economic Policy Making
29.   This component included short term consulting services to help the Studies and Evaluation
Directorate of MINIFINECO, who is acting as the technical secretariat of the Interministerial
Coordinating Committee on Economic Policy, prepare papers for submission to the Committee.
No list of topics to be studied and no work program had been prepared, and not much happened
during the first years of the project. Also, in early 1989 a reorganization of the Rwandese
administration removed the "economy" function from MINIFINECO which then became
MINIFIN. It is only towards the end of the Project that funds available for financing short term
consultants were used for studies on public enterprise reform and the preparation of the public
expenditures programs lor the live sectors mentioned in the structural adjustment program.



- 11 
Government Performance
30.   According to the President's Report, officials of MINIFINECO at all levels were very
active in the project design and preparation, and had a strong interest in, and commitment to the
Project. Somehow that commitment disappeared quickly, maybe because of difficulties
experienced in the early stages of project implementation. Another determining factor was that
most of the successive Ministers of Finance during the project implementation phase did not have
the same degree of commitment to the project than the one who was in charge during the
preparation phase of the project. Moreover, the government did not take the necessary
measures, including assigning sufficient staff, to ensure that the project was properly managed and
implemented. In retrospect, it is clear that there was a need for a project coordinator or manager
more directly involved in the Budget process to exert effective control on the various project
components and to check that results were obtained, as well as for a full time civil servant in
charge of day-to-day tasks and a project accountant. Although more costly, it would also have
been better to recruit, from the beginning, the long-term advisers as a team through a consulting
firm. In accordance with the terms of the agreement with ADETEF, the authorities could have
made more use of backstopping missions and training expertise of ADETEF, which seems to have
been quite successful. The problems with ADETEF (e.g. disagreement on travel arrangement for
the ADETEF supervisory teams) at one point significantly affected the project and diverted the
attention of the project officials. There are some vague references in the files to these issues
being referred to the Interministerial Coordinating Committee on Economic Policy, but it does
not seem that full use was made of this potentially important mechanism to resolve the problems
associated with ADETEF. Finally. the deteriorating general country conditions (i.e.. intermittent
armed conflict in 1990-92) made it difficult for the authorities to conduct normal business.
Country officials were generally preoccupied with the conflict and the senior officials in charge of
the project were unable to exert the needed leadership for better project implementation.
Bank Performance
31.   Bank performance on the Project was mixed. Bank staff played a useful role in project
identification and preparation, but should have done more to make detailed plans for the
implementation process. With the exccption of some attempts in late-1987 and mid-1988 and
again in 1991 to help the government dcal with the problems in project implementation, Bank
supervision of the Project by Headquarters staff has been superficial. There was a lack of
substantive contributions by the Bank during the early stages of project implementation. Changes
in the Bank staff assigned to the Project did not help either. The Bank Resident Mission has
been episodically involved in project supervision; it organized review meetings, made useful
suggestions on a number of issues (particularly on monitorable action programs and helped
expedite procurement). However, the Resident Mission's suggestions were not always accepted by
the government and followed up by supervision mission staff. Although Bank staff made several
attempts to get the Minister of Finance to intervene to reinvigorate the project in the context of
the preparation and supervision of the structural adjustment program, the Bank should have been
more forceful on insisting on compliance with credit covenants, including project accounts,
progress reports and audits. On the basis that some of the problems l:acing the implementation of
the project were being resolved (including, for example, the recruitment of a new budgeta.y
adviser in July 1989) in January 1990, the Bank extended the closing date by two and-a-half years,
from December 31, 1989 to June 30, 1992. This period coincided with the preparation of the
SAL The Bank staff hoped that the Government would show its commitment to the project if
the authorities saw the project as instrumental in financing studies or activities that were
important for the adjustment program. In the event, project implementation did not improve as



- 12 -
expected, it would have been better to extend the closing date one year at a time, and to monitor
project implementation more closely. In 1992 the new Minister of Finance submitted a proposal
to restructure the project. As the credit closing date had already been extended by two and-a-half
years and since Bank staff were not convinced that the related Government proposal to
restructure the project could improve the project implementation, the Bank refused any further
extension of the closing date.
Project Documentation and Data
32.   The President's Report and the Development Credit Agreement provided a useful
framework for the Government and the Bank, but a detailed implementation and supervision
manual would have been a greater help in the carrying out the Project. The absence of regular
progress reports, project accounts and audit reports (for most of the project period) did not
facilitate preparation of this PCR.
V - PROJECT RESULTS AND IMPACT
33.   From the limited information available in the files, the Project results are very meager and
the impact of the Project is negligible. No doubt, the Project provided training, upgraded staff
capabilities, useful studies were carried out, diagnoses of current problems were refined, some
relevant documents were prepared etc, however, there is no evidence that the Project helped
Government improve substantially the management of public finances. It appears that at the end
of the Project the government is generally faced with similar problems in public management as it
did before the project.
VI - CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
34.   Performance on the Project was overall unsatisfactory, and the Project did not achieve its
primary objective of enabling the Government to improve the management of public finances. In
the course of implementing the project, a few lessons have been learned in terms of project
design and preparation, and project management and supervision by the government and the
Bank.
35.   The project's concept was sound, but the design was not detailed enough for some
components. More time should have been spent on project preparation, to elaborate a strategy
to reform public finance management, define precise operational objectives and outline the
process including the steps to be followed with a timetable. As a second best solution, this should
have been done at the beginning of the project period, possibly with the assistance of ADETEF
which is particularly qualified for conceptual work (maybe more so than for implementation).
Given the shortage of qualified Rwandese financial staff in MINIFINECO and other Ministries,
the training provided must have been useful. However, the institutional climate, including in
particular the high turnover of staff and the absence of appropriate personnel management
policies and practices, eroded much of the benefits of training. The lesson learned is that capacity
building through training requires staff continuity in key positions and appropriate incentive
policies and personnel management practices.



- 13 -
36.   Another lesson learned is that a project of such complexity and scope cannot be successful
without a strong government commitment and the assignment of sufficient staff with reasonable
continuity to manage the Project properly. A twinning arrangement with an organization like
ADETEF is no substitute for Government commitment and involvement. There was a certain
logic in Project contents and components were interrelated; in order to ensure consistency in
approach, as well as consistency for the recruitment of long term advisers and between their work
programs, it would have been more appropriate for the Government at the beginning of the
Project to recruit experts as a team through a specialized consulting firm, as envisaged in the
President's Report.
37.   Although close supervision of a project does not necessarily ensure successful
implementation, more intense and regular supervision by the Bank was clearly needed. From time
to time, the Bank Resident Mission played a constructive role through day to day contacts, in
organizing review meetings, and in assisting the Government in the logistical aspects of the
Project. However, the Resident Mission suggestions were not always followed up by supervision
missions. The supervision of a project of this nature requircs specializcd cxpcrtisc which has to
be provided or mobilized by headquarters to help Government address substantive issues that may
arise during project implementation. The lesson learned is that the Bank should not be involved
in the financing of institutional development projects which are very difficult to design and
implement unless it is prepared invest in intensive supervision with specialized expertise.



- 14 -
PART 11 - PROJECTR EVIEW FROM BJORROWEIt'S IPERSPISEC'IVE
REPUBUQUE RWANDAISE                      hJaaIi.9
lk                                            No 834Y /j  1001,V/
Aa AaSO
MTNTSTItnv. tE. FTNANCYHff
RF. N'- :                              a-ougd f Progm=mm pow 2.s Sviu  M
waihlxg%oa DO 20453
, Ae
)I.m_s~w 4. wsw ue ov    quo 3*           at
e  a I 6pWuliqiz Aaiu. na          e .b *ta pam 4.
la mpport weitlf & 1'autios dun puojet 1565 m7e.
ugsw 4.
~~~~~~~~ Nirsli 1.                   *    __-Z1O111061t4  - -
Xmo;o  le Ilep::o2antt 316odent de                   w=i
vs BMQIdond"  Rau  'mf-
JuA'W.*,



- 15 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.      Related IDA Credits
Credit n*/          Purpose                         Year of         Status             Comments
Project Title                                       Approval
1217-RW            'Io desclop R.,nJia's ahsorptnc   March 1982     UI(tectivcness:    The Project successfully
First study Fund    capacity by increasing the                      November 1982       introduced a mechanism for
SDR 4.3 million     number and improving the                                           making pre-investment
quality of projects to be                       Closing date:      studies and improving
submitted for external ti.iancing,              June 30 1989        interministerial coordination,
strengthening the local project                 (two and a half     but fell short of expectations
preparation capabilities and                    yeats behind       in terms of expanding
improving the coordination                      schedule)          Rwandese capacity to
between technical ministries and                                   prepare projects because of
the Ministty of Planning.                                          some institutional
weaknesses, especially the
availability of qualified
personnel.
Fo give Rwanda the capacity
1796-RW            and technical competence        May 1987         Effectiveness:     This credit was supposed to
Second Study        necessaty to translate its                      08/18/88            pick up where the Study
Fund                planned priorities into coherent                Closing date:      Fund I left. However., it
investment programs.                            06/0/93            suffered from competition
from credit 1217-RW, whose
disbursements were delayed
by two and a half years.
Today, cumulative
disbursements of credit
1796-RW are low, and the
possibility of restructuring
the project is being
considered.
Providc technical am.istance tl
2113-RW             the Government to help carry    March 1990      Effectiveness:     The technical work on the
Public Enterprise    out its public enterprise refortn              02/26/91           public enterprise law is now
Reform              program in: (a) a policy reform                                    completed and the work on
package covering the whole                      Closing Date:      developing a privatization
public enterprise sector; (b)                    12/31/94          strategy has been laundced.
restructuring specific enterprises                                 Consultants are also in place.
and (c) development of
institutional capacity to design,
implement and monitor public
enterprise reform.



- 16 -
2.       Prolect Timetable
item D,o                                  Date             Date
Planned                Revised          Actual
- Identification             .-- .--                                  September 1983
- Preparation                 ._                     ---              May-June 1984
- Appraisal Mission           October 1984           -.-              October 1984
- Credit Negotiations         Februaty 25-27, 1985    ...              February 25-27, 1985
- Board Approval              03.21/1985             ..               0.3/21/1985
- Credit Signature           ...                                      05/17/1985
Credit E(fectiveneaLms      t)/tESt1985             01/15/198'       0)/10/t986
- Credit Closing              I 31/1s989              WM/3/1 992       WM,/3t)/t992
- Credit Completion           06n20/89                                ...
L Iast Disbunement            -                      ...               01/19/1993



- 17-
3.       Credit Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                                  Disbursements (in USS million)
and quarter                                         . Credit 156S-RW
Estimatee                     Actual                         Actual % of
Cumulative                    Cumulative                     Estimated
1984/85       4      0.20                                                         0
1985/86       l
2
3                                    0.26
4      1.40                          0.33                           23.6
1986/87       1                     ..47
2                                    0.57
3                                    0.67
4      2.90                          0.88                           303
1987/88       1                                     0.92
2                                    0.92
3                                    0.97
4      3.70                           1.00                          27.0
1988189       1                                     1.21
2                                     1.29
3                                     1.47
4      4.30                           1.65                          38.4
1989/90       1                                     1.88
2                                    2.13
3                                    2.42
4      4.80                          2.62                           54.6
1990/91       1                                     2.74
3                                     3.04
4      4.80                          3.1b)                          4)5.e8
1991/92       1                                     3.21
2                                    3.29
3                                    3.37
4      4.80                          3.43                           71.5
1992/93       1                                     3.47
2                                    3.64
3      4.80                          3.68                           76.7
Note:  At the time of the signing of credit 1565-RW, one SDR was equal to about one US dollar.
Since then the value of the SDR has increased, and is at prescnt equal to about US$ 1.37.
Although actual disbursements in US dollars represent 77% of the dollar value of the credit
as included in the President's Report, in terms of SDRs actual disbursements represent o.Ily
58% of the original credit amount of SDR 4.9 million.



- 18 -
4.       ProJect ImRIlementation
Indicators                               President Report   Actual /or
Estimates         PCR estimates
1. Appointment of National Project Coordinator                         09/16/85
2. Signing of Protocol between Government and ADETEF                   03/05/85           03105/85
renewed on 04/29/88
3. MINIFINECO's Training Centre:
.Start of detailed specifications study                              03131/85
.Enactment of legislation                                            11/01/85           06R40/86
.Appointment of Director                                             1101/85           11t/8
.Submission of course syllabus to IDA                                06/01/8S
.Start of operations                                                 10/86              03/87
4. Start of remedial training                                          March 1985
S. Start of recruitment of:
.Budget management specialist                                        03131/85           01/86
.Public accounting specialist                                        03/31/85           06/86
6. Long term advisors to prepare yearly work programs to               Annually
be approved by Rwandese supervisors and reviewed by
IDA
7. Phased introduction of automated dat a processing:
.Start of systems analysis and application design for
computerizing the tax administration                                03/31/85
.Start of full computerization of budget management                  March 86
system
.Operation of integrated system                                      June 87



- 19-
5.       Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(in US$ thousand equivalent)
FPoag                    tLoca                     TOWa
Talning Ccntx                                                      190                     no                       910
Reedial TMrAntn                                                   650                      S0                      7n0
Long tlwm Ad&s                                                   OM5                      370                      1.8
BaEatoppg Miaona                                                   90                       10                     too
SboWt term Conuttants                                             310                      80                       390
Computatization                                                   480                       Se3r $30
VeI*e and tquipment                                               lIti                     t l                      !30l
Total Baa. Cost-                                                3.320                    1,400                    4720
Corttnhsle                                                       370                      200                      S70
of whicb: Prbe                                                   320                     180                       0  l
Phok                                                        So                      20                       70
Towa Projee Costa3                                              3.690                    1.600                   5.290
B. Prolect Financing
___________ . orcin                     Local .                                      Totdl
IDA                                          136903                          1t10 t                                        4,00
<ilaemmem                                      .                               490                                           490
Total                                                                                                                       S 1.6Q0  |S.0 J
Note.    There is no information in the President's Report or in the files on the planned distribution af financing between Government
and IDA for each component. Also. in the absence ol project accounts. there is no information on the financing that has been
actually provided by Government, in total and by component, nor on IDA financing by project component.
6        Project Results
Measurable Output
Indicators                               Appraisal Estimates          Estimated at                  Estimated at full
Closing Date                 Development
1. Number of people trained              30 per year                  From 22 to 38 per year,
at MINIFINECO's training                                            for a total of 145 for the 5-
Centre                                                              year period 1987-1992.
2. Remedial training:
. number of people trained             70
. number of study tours                10
Taxes included in the project costs are negligible as all items would be exempt
from import duties and local taxes.
.3/      Including refinancing of the US$450,000 PPF advance.



- 20 -
7.    Status of Caenants
Seco       . In                                        .eadi -     -                   fot for
|.02             Opertion of Spcial Account                                     N/A              Sansi   oty
|101              Canrng out of Prjct by MINIPINht '                            % A              I fn&dilvt,w  n.e ath due ddi,tener .fd  fir-t
102               P1,0u"anten                                                   N:A              Samtfayo
|  03b)           Bowr to depoit USS1I0l0 equakt Into Projeat Acount            10318S           Yct
0410118          yet
tlOm186          Yea
0WO A17          Ye
100o/7          Ye
040              Yet
lt0O1            No inmation saaita
04089            Ae4 n to  dit Meport. 0 tmnt doted  a than USS0XWO0  but the awaibilit 
1001/89    f      outerpa  fonds  one been"  ptemW    (Otsrmnt fiAnd ertain tprject esendora
4DU90             ypaat
t1v01/90
0t§L'It          No infonaro avabtae
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(i ttQl,%
wtl4llq!
104(a)            Bo        to anpbC y I alt times a project coodinat  whoe     NIA              Yes
qualllaaooa and apewkn  are artepebe to IDA
104(b)            BorroWr to ame   that Secrery Genweal In charge of Finance    N/A              No
coordlnte TA to MINQIECO.
IO(a)             Bo"rr   to eatabA traing cerand eply c        tb               111/O85        YVs wth omc day
t0X(b)            Bortower to tbet aa  to IDA for alu oeui  to be carird        N/A              No Informatibn a
out hn training cener.
lIl.              Borrower to saign quahwld slafl ltlj..jvs *n .xic4uI.a numtwm  \A              %.. Ai .\ . Ist rmn.-t   itk- rdmalaffd
B1rrower to preper yearty work programe tw oeiauhanu and
3.07              tletable for preet actetie                                    N/A              No infornauon avaaWl
Borowe to maintainjeteua
401(a)                                                                          N/A              Not comped wib
BOrrOwa to ha  Prect AcOuna  ud  anuy.
401(b) and (a)                                                                  06m6             NNo
0611t            No
Om/8             No
06/8             NO
0/               Yes (.ith 6 months deay)
06191            Yes (with 4 months delay)
Ge-te                                                                           0/92             Yes (witb 6 mota deay)
- 1                progress report
Secion 906         ompletln report                                              N A               Uinsauiaany,
nsa dur yet3
Mme Borrower did not submit any regular Progress Report for the whole projet.
0/          IDA  to ask Government to complete Part 11 of this PCR.



-21 -
&         Use of Bank Resources
A, Staff Inputs
(In staff weck from MIS)
Stage of ProtCylea                                  P-lned               ReAnsd                 Fia/Comments
Th  A ail                                                                                                               __4 4.8
AppI" through Bod Approal                         .                                              60 
SUPllo                                            .                      ..                     41.1
Project Comption Report                                                                         60
i7.4
Tol
B. Missions
Sta. of perc Ce                     MontYear              Nb of        DMy in      Prfo        rating ssam1
Persona    fied
Through Appa                        Sept 83               NA           NA
May/June 84
NA          NA
Appraisal tou  8ad                  OCL 84
Board Appoal thsh Eaectiveaa        none                                           OS           PDO        CU'          PMP          AOF
SUPezvtson:71
N1                                  Feb .86              t            5
N!                                 ApN/    86            2            9
N 3                                Sept 86               1            4
Ni4                                 Nov. 87              2            4           3            3                       3            t
N5                                 AAprl 88              2            4           3            3          .            3
Ni6                                March89               2            10          3            3                       3
N'7                                Novre.r- 89           1            10
NV!                                Sept/Ot. 90           2            12
N'9                                July 91               I            7           2            2          2            2
Records of some missions may be missing and some missions supervised several projects.
2/         OS O   Ovaallf status
PDO - Project Development Objectives
CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants
PMP - Project Management Performance
AOF = Availability of Funds
8/        Supervision N`8 wias abnrted due to ilie ligiiing In Kigali while Mwfne n11eelvrs oi thlc teall were alreadv in ihe



