                        Document of
                    The World Bank




                                                      Report No: 35002

          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (IDA-33530)

                           ON A

                          CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 56 MILLION (US$75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                          TO THE

                   REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                          FOR A

      SECOND SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                        June 25, 2006

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )

                            Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
                                YER 1.00 = US$ 0.005
                                US$ 1.00 = YER 194.00

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1     December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBO          Community-Based Organization
FSS          Financial Self-Sufficiency
GER          General Enrollment Rate
GIS          Geographical Information System
GoY          Government of Yemen
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IGP          Income Generating Programs
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MF           Micro Finance
MFI          Micro Finance Institutions
MIS          Management Information System
MOE          Ministry of Education
MOH          Ministry of Health
MOSAL        Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
O&M          Operations and Maintenance
OSS          Operational Self-Sufficiency
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDO          Project Development Objectives
SFD          Social Fund for Developmment (Institution)
SFD2         Social Fund for Development Project - Second Phase
SMED         Small and Micro Enterprise Development Unit
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
QER          Quality Enhancement Review
UNCDF        United Nations Capital Development Fund

                           Vice President:    Christiaan Poortman
                        Country Director      Emmanuel Mbi
                  Acting Sector Manager       David Steel
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Anush Bezhanyan

                                  YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
                         Second Social Fund for Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. SFD 2 Investment                                                        31
Annex 9. Sources of Financing                                                    34
Annex 10. Design Parameters of 2003 Impact Evaluation Study                      35

Project ID: P068830                                                  Project Name: Second Social Fund for Development
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Anush Bezhanyan                                         TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 26, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Social Fund for Development Project               L/C/TF Number: IDA-33530
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (43%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%);
                            General education sector (20%); Roads and highways (10%); Micro- and SME finance (7%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Improving labor markets (P); Small and medium
                            enterprise support (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/05/2000                                     Effective: 10/30/2000                01/09/2001
     Appraisal: 03/22/2000                                         MTR: 03/31/2003                  05/02/2003
      Approval: 05/23/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2006                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF YEMEN/SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:      Arab Fund for Economic and Social Develoment, Government of the Netherlands,
                                           Islamic Develoment Bank, European Union, United States Government, UK
                                           Government (DFID)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Inder K. Sud
Sector Director:                Michal Rutkowski                               Jacques Baudouy
Team Leader at ICR:             Anush Bezhanyan                                Qaiser M. Khan
ICR Primary Author:             Marylou R. Bradley


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context: The objectives and design of the second phase of the Yemen Social Fund for Development
(SFD2) are assessed here in the context of the poverty and vulnerability in Yemen during the 1990s, and
the institutional capacity for social services delivery.

Poverty and Vulnerability: Yemen is one of the poorest countries in the world, with about 42% of its
population (or 6.9 million people) living below the poverty line in 1998. Life expectancy at birth is 56
years, infant mortality is 76 per 1,000 live births, child malnutrition is 46% of children under five, and
illiteracy is 52% of the population aged fifteen and under. Only 40% of the population have access to safe
drinking water and sanitation. Women and children living in rural areas without access to education and
health services rank highest among the vulnerable. Although social indicators have improved in the past
years, access to social services and the development of human resources continue to be limited.

Institutional Capacity. The Government of Yemen's (GoY) capacity to deliver social services effectively
and equitably is weak. There are no integrated approaches used by sector line ministries, line ministries use
different criteria which often lack transparency in allocating resources to the regions, and services delivery
is top down. Services delivery is problematic in remote areas given the absence of representation of line
ministries, local contractors, and the inability of communities to voice their needs. Local governments that
are mandated to provide coordination of social services lack the capacity to do so. Political and tribal
pressures play an important role in initiating new projects. Very few agencies employ participative
approaches in service delivery, which affects the sustainability and cost-effectiveness of interventions.
Although it was envisaged that NGOs, cooperatives, and civil society and private sector organizations
would play a more significant role in service delivery in the future, no agency focuses consistently on
developing the capacity of these entities to assess needs and identify and implement activities in local
communities. All phases of the Social Fund for Development have been designed to support and contribute
towards improvements in these areas.

Development Objective: The project development objective (PDO) of the Second Phase of the Social Fund
for Development (SFD2) was to improve the range of services and options available to the poorer segments
of the Yemeni population through a combination of community development, capacity building, and
micro-finance programs.

The PDO was not well-articulated and did not have clear benchmarks against which to assess project
achievements. Notwithstanding, the PDO did allow the project to address two of the four main objectives of
the Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 19073-YEM, 1999): a) targeted social improvements for
poverty alleviation which directly relate to Yemen's large gender gap and rising poverty gap; and b) water
management through the implementation of community-based water harvesting schemes. A key pillar of
GoY's poverty reduction strategy, SFD2 supported community development subprojects focusing on
education, health, water harvesting and micro finance issues, key areas highlighted by the Participative
Poverty Analysis (1998) as needing attention to complement the self-help mechanisms of the poor. It also
scaled up assistance for groups with special needs. SFD2 took into account key factors contributing to
poverty and vulnerability and the weak institutional capacity for social services delivery. Overall the
Project was responsive to GoY's national development priorities and sector policies and strategies.

At GoY's request and on the basis of the successful achievements of the first phase, the World Bank and
other Development Partners agreed to continue support for a follow-up operation, the second phase.
Building on the lessons and achievements of the first phase, the second phase was designed to further
strengthen pro-poor and more inclusive delivery of basic services within a sustainable community
development framework, while further enhancing the institutional capacity of the SFD and its partnerships




                                                      - 2 -

with key stakeholders at all levels.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The Objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Component I: Community Development, US$140 million. Support the process of participative
community development through the identification, implementation, and management of
community-driven subprojects for small-scale, labor-intensive works and the delivery of community
services. Subprojects, targeted to poorer communities and vulnerable groups, would focus on education,
health, water supply and sanitation, feeder roads, social protection, and the preservation of Yemen's rich
cultural heritage. Intermediary organizations, including NGOs, cooperatives, and local governments, would
assist communities in preparing and implementing sub-projects selected by poor communities as their
development priorities. Capacity building support would be provided to the communities to allow them to
take the lead in their own development.

Component II: Micro-Finance and Income Generating Schemes, US$15 million. Increase access of
the poor to financial services through the development of financial and institutionally sustainable micro
finance intermediaries and support for income generating projects. Both services would be provided
through eligible intermediaries such as NGOs and cooperatives. The SFD2 was to develop a micro-finance
intermediary in context where the potential demand for micro finance was high enough to justify the
investment in technical and financial support required to build a sustainable program. In those areas where
there was a clear demand but where high volumes of active clients could never be reached, income
generating projects (IGPs) would be set up. To help the poorest, especially women, savings would be
incorporated into more programs. SFD2 would collaborate with existing intermediaries as well as explore
the creation of new intermediaries in developing local capacity for micro finance.

Component III: Capacity Building, US$20 million. Build and sustain local capacity to ensure the
success and sustainability of community development subprojects. This component would build the
capacity of stakeholders to more effectively identify, implement, manage, and operate subprojects. SFD2
would build local capacity at the institutional and community levels by institutionalizing the capacity to
identify gaps and opportunities, build partnerships, and learn from pilot projects. It would provide support
to national NGOs and agencies which work directly on social protection as well as to national authorities to
help them prepare a national social protection strategy. Both managerial and technical capacities of SFD2
partners would be strengthened to improve support to beneficiaries, raise implementation capacity, and
achieve sustainability, while the institutional capacity of SFD would also be enhanced.

The three components of the Project, as originally designed, were able to achieve the PDO within a shorter
implementation period than originally planned and with achievements substantially surpassing original
targets.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not formally revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) at entry, but did benefit from a
Quality Enhancement Review (QER). Based on the following factors, the ICR rates the quality at entry as
Satisfactory. First,the project's objective was consistent with the CAS, the Government's strategies and
priorities for reducing poverty, and SFD's vital role in assisting social and economic development,


                                                      - 3 -

especially for the poorest. Second, the operational design of the SFD2 incorporated lessons learned from
Phase I and other Bank global experiences and promoted best practices. Third, there was strong GoY
commitment and ownership. Fourth, project design did address sustainability issues up-front by adopting
several measures which are described in Section 6.1. Fifth, the institutional set up and implementation
modalities of SFD2 were strengthened to increase its efficiency in the delivery of basic services. Finally,
QER recommendations were incorporated in project design.

In hindsight, while the PDO and benchmarks for assessing achievements were not clearly defined,
technically sound project design and strong emphasis on capacity building for sustainable community
development allowed the project to achieve its objectives and surpass its original targets.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Highly Satisfactory. SFD continues to be one of the key instruments of GoY's poverty reduction
initiatives to help broaden the base of beneficiaries of economic change with the most cost-efficient
apparatus. Over time, SFD has become a model agency of best practices which has positively affected the
process of development in Yemen in the following areas:

Positive impacts on policies and mainstream institutions. Outcomes achieved at the central level
included: (i) in the education sector, establishment of the first Community Development Department in the
Ministry of Education to support community-based interventions in education services delivery, the
development of multiple school designs based on local circumstances, and lowering the cost per square
meter of school construction; (ii) in the micro finance (MF) sector, laying the foundation of an emerging
micro finance industry with the capacity of MF intermediaries strengthened and MF tools developed to
provide financial services to poor and needy groups; (iii) in the roads sector, development of the (first ever)
manual on rural road interventions in Yemen; and (iv) in other sectors, the establishment of a data base on
NGOs in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor; preparation of the national social protection strategy;
and the writing and subsequent enactment of two laws: in 2000 to strengthen governments/district
councils; and in 2001 to strengthen NGOs.

Access to basic services outcomes. SFD2 scaled up its multi-sectoral operations nationwide, promoting
more broad-based and pro-poor targeted interventions. SFD2 supported a total of 2403 community-based
subprojects in nine sectors, while also scaling up support for groups with special needs, with estimated
(gross) direct benefits to 4.5 million, of which more than one half are women, against the original PAD
forecast of 2.0 million people. The MF component had 25,588 active borrowers and 24,617 active clients
receiving saving services. Community subprojects created over 9.4 million man days of employment.

Institutional capacity outcomes at local level. SFD2 adopted a pragmatic approach in gradually but
systematically working to build the management and technical capacity of communities and NGOs. The
results have been demonstrated by increased capacity to prepare development plans for local communities
and more subprojects implemented in less time. Local communities now have a voice in their own
development and participate in the selection, preparation, and implementation of subprojects. Leadership,
responsibility and accountability have promoted community ownership and each project's community
ownership is contributing to a strengthened civil society. NGOs, in partnership with local communities and
local authorities, take an active role in community-based services delivery, complementing the activities of
central government. By strengthening the capacities of weak micro finance institutions (MFIs), poor and
marginalized groups now benefit from financial services that help improve their incomes and living
conditions. Under the SFD2, the use of transparent procedures and participatory process, and close



                                                      - 4 -

collaboration with all stakeholders have had a significant demonstration effect on the newly elected
Governorate and District councils, while project support helped to bolster their nascent operations.
.
Poverty targeting mechanism. SFD corrected for weaknesses in the demand-driven concept of project
identification by taking a more proactive role in targeting the poorest communities and vulnerable groups.
For the second phase, three types of targeting --geographic, sector and social, were used (see Annex 3).
Findings of the 2003 Impact Evaluation Study (IES) reveal that a high proportion of SFD resources are
benefiting the poorest households, with 17% going to the poorest decile, and 31% to the poorest quintile.

Economic Cost and Benefit. The justification for expanding SFD2's activities is discussed in Annex 3.
The devolution of responsibilities to local level stakeholders for managing basic services delivery led to
improvements in access to and quality of basic social and economic services, reduced unit costs of
infrastructure, accountability at the local level, and transparent use and management of resources.
Subprojects had a substantial impact and increasing sector impact.

Project Sustainability Outcomes. Several factors contribute to the Project's sustainability: (i) SFD2's
systematic alignment of capital investments with continuous capacity development, (ii) upfront agreements
with communities and key line ministries to fund O&M costs and recurrent costs of subprojects,
respectively; (iii) cost-effectiveness and efficiency of SFD2 operations; (iv) low operational cost; (v) local
ownership of new assets; (vi) improved collaboration and partnership with mainstream institutions; and
(vii) continued strong support of GoY to SFD.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Community Development - Highly Satisfactory. This component supported 1,823
subprojects nationwide with estimated direct benefits to about 4.2 million individuals and average
community contribution of 6% of total subproject cost. Subproject selection criteria and processing
mechanisms were well-enforced, cost-effective, targeted the poor, and promoted principles of sustainable
community-driven development programs.

Increased access to education contributed to overall higher enrollment rates and reductions in gender
gap, through the construction of 6,534 new classrooms and rehabilitation/expansion of 1,439 existing
classrooms, providing close to 470,000 places for students. Over the period 2001-2004, gross enrollment
rates (GER) in basic education increased from 62.9% to 67.6%, female GER increased from 45.9% to
52.7%, the number of classes in public schools increased from 116,788 to 123,322, and the number of
schools for girls increased from 502 to 554. Although subject to further validation, this suggests that with
the total new classrooms built with SFD2 resources during the same period, the Project contributed a
substantial share to the total increase in classrooms in basic education, including reductions in gender gap.
Parental involvement is fairly high with parents and teachers' committees established and functioning. In
the majority of schools financed by SFD2, "software" interventions such as community outreach
campaigns, training and skills development, and institutional support to Ministry of Education (MoE) are
contributing to improvements in education services delivery. Pilots to improve educational quality and
integrated approaches to girls' education were successful.

Improved access to and quality of health services, through the implementation of 171 subprojects
benefiting 1.1 million individuals. Subprojects focused on improving the delivery of primary health care,
including reproductive, neonatal, psychiatric and mental health care, training/capacity building
interventions to about 730 health care workers, local health committees and Ministry of Health (MoH) staff
at central and district levels, construction and/or rehabilitation of health facilities where there was high
demand and evidence for sustaining operations, and support for health training institutes with scholarships



                                                       - 5 -

provided to rural female students to study in these institutions. Health management systems with
community participation were established in 152 health facilities. Special attention was given to building
the capacity of local health committees, providing them with extensive training on health information and
management systems as well as engaging local councils and training local residents to become health care
workers.

Significantly increased access to water services, through the implementation of more than 400
subprojects benefiting over one million individuals. SFD2's non-mechanized water harvesting schemes
comprised 76% of these water subprojects, increasing access to services and reducing the risk of water
shortages in 312 rural communities. About 15% of these water harvesting subprojects were implemented
directly by the communities, resulting in increased community management capacity, better
cost-effectiveness and greater sustainability. SFD2 also implemented 65 large environmental sanitation
subprojects, providing services to a further 821,000 individuals.

 SFD2 did achieve its primary objectives of increasing access to services, increasing community
 implementation capacity, and reducing the risk of water shortages. However, SFD2's water and
 environmental sanitation subprojects have been less successful in improving the well-being of its target
 population. To address shortcomings, SFD2 has initiated hygiene and awareness campaigns in its project
 communities, but only 26 campaigns were completed under this phase. Investment in SFD2 water
 subprojects has resulted in social and economic improvements, particularly where the subprojects supply
 water for livelihoods like livestock rearing, but there is little evidence of any positive health impacts.

Improved access to rural areas, through the implementation of 105 subprojects with direct benefits to over
815,000 individuals who now have better access to markets and basic social services. Subprojects reduced
journey costs and travel times by 40%, increased daily trips by 180%, helped beneficiaries market their
agricultural products more easily, and reduced the costs of basic imported goods (food, gas, and other basic
commodities). SFD2 developed guidelines for subproject selection and a technical manual for the design of
mountainous feeder roads, a manual that did not exist before the SFD intervention. Based on SFD2 data,
90% of roads subprojects have adequate local arrangements for maintenance with participation from both
beneficiary maintenance committees and local authorities.

Scaled up assistance to meet the broader needs of groups with special needs (the disabled, children at
risk, women at risk, and the socially marginalized), with the implementation of 162 subprojects benefiting
65,000 individuals. Subprojects included institutional support to associations and institutions working with
these groups, informal education and training for target beneficiaries, training of teachers in inclusive
education, support to rehabilitation centers, orphanages and other centers that cater to these group, literacy
training for female prisoners, providing health services, and facilitating the rehabilitation and integration of
children with disabilities into mainstream education. SFD2 supported the development of two national
strategies for disadvantaged children and for childhood and youth development.

Successfully piloted integrated community development programs, following a "cluster" approach
establishing a local development committee and then providing intensive training in formulating
development plans by these committees and implementing subprojects according to agreed priorities. Pilots
focused mainly on social mobilization, service provision in sectors such as health, education, water, and
agriculture/livelihood, and capacity building for elected local development committees. Interventions
emphasized the achievement of project outcomes, the development of both community and local
organizational structures, and the importance of building on community dynamics. These helped strengthen
capacity at the local level, especially among local development committees, enhanced community relations,
and strengthened women's participation.


                                                      - 6 -

Diversified the scope of social services by preserving cultural heritage, through the implementation of 65
cultural subprojects with benefits to over 236,000 individuals, and generating income for local artisans.
Subprojects supported national efforts to preserve and safeguard World Culture Heritage sites, training of
young masons, and enhancing the technical capacity of organizations and individuals to document, restore,
rehabilitate, and protect Yemen's cultural assets, while also promoting the use of local materials and
traditional techniques. Subprojects in this sector helped diversify the scope of social services by integrating
other social sector activities, where appropriate, to maximize benefits (e.g., inclusion of water cisterns,
revival of green spaces, and street paving in cultural sites). SFD2 support in the sector has a longer term
impact in promoting tourism and conserving related professions.

Component II: Micro Finance and Income Generating Programs - Satisfactory. This component had
three inter-related parts: (i) increase access of the poor to financial services; (ii) the development of
financial and institutionally sustainable MFIs; and (iii) support for income generating projects (IGPs).
Ratings for each part are discussed below:

Part (i) Highly Satisfactory. SFD2 provided financial and technical support to 10 MFIs operating in 26
branches in nine governorates. By December 2005, these MFIs had 25,588 active borrowers and 24,617
savers, and provided over 81,000 loans totaling YER 2,430 million. Loans averaged YER 27,000 (about
US$140 equivalent) which suggests that MFIs have been effective in targeting the poorest and neediest
groups. Anecdotal information suggests that access to financial services helped clients to increase their
income and to improve their living conditions. These services were especially beneficial to poor women,
allowing them to learn from each other, find new marketing channels, and increasingly become more aware
of effective ways to improve their businesses.

The SFD/SMED Unit laid the foundation of an emerging micro finance industry, a major achievement in a
country where the concept and practice of micro finance did not exist prior to SFD's inception and where
the client base of MFIs increased considerably during a relatively short period of time. The SFD/SMED
Unit: (i) built local capacity and versatile training modules; (ii) developed MF models that are responsive to
the country's needs; (iii) created awareness among policy makers on best practice MF industry; and (iv)
increased the capacity and effectiveness of MFIs.

Part (ii) Satisfactory. Although significant progress has been made towards ensuring sustainability, MFIs
have yet to achieve financial sustainability. The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) however
acknowledges the positive trends which suggest that several MFIs are on the right path to achieving
sustainability over time. Both the SFD/SMED Unit and MFIs have experienced rapid growth and
improved performance, although there were some shortcomings in the ability of the SMED MIS to generate
reliable industry data and key indicators (operational self-sufficiency [OSS] and financial self-sufficiency
[FSS]), and in the capacity of some MFI managers to effectively act upon data as well as to analyze the
data collected. These shortcomings are being addressed under the third phase by providing additional
technical assistance.

Part (iii) Marginally satisfactory. Eight IGPs initiated during the first phase continued during the second
phase, benefiting approximately 6,900 individuals. SFD2, however, in consultation with IDA halted
support for new IGPs because IGPs were small, dispersed, lacked proper infrastructure and human
resources for implementation, and were expensive and limited to one service (animal raising). These IGPs
were not sustainable and closed following the outbreak of the rift valley disease which led to a substantial
loss of cattle, the focus of IGP interventions at that time.




                                                       - 7 -

Component III: Capacity Building, Highly Satisfactory. SFD2 implemented various capacity
building/training interventions, benefiting about 593,000 individuals at all levels, with a positive impact on
policies and mainstream institutions, strengthening the capacities of NGOs, communities, local authorities
and local institutions in taking a more proactive role in sustainable and community-based basic services
delivery. Over 700 community-based organizations (CBOs) and NGOs benefited from capacity building
activities.

At the central level, capacity building and training interventions have had a positive impact on policies and
mainstream institutions. Key areas of SFD2 intervention included: (i) the preparation and design of the
National Strategy for Childhood and Youth; (ii) assistance with the writing of laws to strengthen local
government/district councils and NGOs; (iii) development of school design standards; (iv) lowering of the
cost per square meter for school construction; (iv) development of a manual on rural road interventions in
Yemen; (v) establishment of a data base on NGOs; (vi) technical support for the preparation of the
National Strategy for the Care and Rehabilitation of the Disabled, the National Strategy for Social
Protection, and the National Small and Micro-Enterprise Development Strategy; (vii) strengthening of the
GIS and development of a user manual linked to data from the 1994 census and the 1999 National Poverty
Survey; (viii) school mapping pilot to facilitate the updating of the education system's data base, an
important tool for decision makers at central and level; (ix) co-piloted a program to develop the financial
systems of local authorities and build their capacity to manage available resources and contribute to local
development; and (x) technical and financial assistance to MFIs, including strengthening awareness of
policy makers on MF best practices, leading to better financial services for an increasing volume of
borrowers and savers. Special programs for vulnerable groups, cultural heritage subprojects, and
integrated interventions were the outcomes of well-planned studies. The shift in approach toward MF and
the greater emphasis on quality of health services provision have provided a sound basis for effective
long-term social services.

At the local level, SFD2 built the management and technical capacity of local communities, NGOs, and
cooperatives, leading to a two-fold increase in subproject proposals, increased ability to effectively prepare
development plans for local communities, and to implement, manage and sustain their new assets, while
also taking the lead in their own development. SFD2 made extensive efforts to develop and integrate
community participation and capacity building in its interventions by providing various training programs,
including on-the-job training to SFD2 local consultants, community users, local development committees,
NGOs, and contractors as well as developing related manuals and materials. Topics included participatory
techniques, contracting, subproject preparation, management, and implementation, community
mobilization, organizational development, basic accounting skills, procurement, sector-specific "technical"
skills, etc. With their newly acquired skills and confidence built through learning by doing, some members
of local communities have become local contractors and/or community-based local consultants assisting
newer or weaker communities with subproject implementation. These results have contributed to the
development of human and social capital. SFD2 pilots were carried out with stakeholder participation to
ensure that elements vital to scaling up and ensuring their sustainability as well as requirements for
capacity building are addressed up-front.

As the key implementing entity, SFD enhanced its own capacity building program and, developed new
policies and work mechanisms to increase its efficiency and effectiveness to support basic services delivery
within a sustainable community development framework. It further strengthened its organizational
structure, created an independent Education Unit, enhanced its pro-poor targeting mechanisms and
expanded its tools for monitoring and evaluation, including the development of computerized procurement
system. The development of a state-of-the-art MIS has strengthened communications, including
dissemination of e-reports to donors, enhanced monitoring and evaluation of all subprojects, and facilitated


                                                      - 8 -

decentralization, as well as supporting a strong financial system able to provide the complex balance of
fiduciary control with flexibility and speed. SFD2 created seven regional branches whose staff now have
greater responsibilities for operational decision-making -- project identification, appraisal and
implementation occur at the regional level while financial transactions remain centralized.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic rate of return was not calculated due to the demand-driven nature of SFD2 subprojects. Ex
post, there is evidence that SFD2 is a cost-effective mechanism in channeling public resources towards the
provision of social services, particularly for the poor and marginalized.

(i) SFD2 subprojects have been more cost-effective than similar projects financed by other government
institutions, achieving outputs/outcomes at a lower cost. In education, the average cost of schools
constructed by SFD2 was between 4% and 8% lower than the cost of those carried out by other programs
in Yemen (Public Works Program, Basic Education and Enhancement Project).

(ii) SFD2 subprojects responded to community demands for priority social needs. Between 60% and 89%
of interviewees in the sample conducted under the IES believe that the subprojects implemented with SFD
support were the highest priority, a finding that is consistent with SFD2's emphasis on participatory
planning, ensuring that subprojects are responsive to priority needs as expressed by local communities.

(iii) Ex-post evaluations illustrate that a sizeable share of SFD2 expenditures reached the poorest, with
17% of the total concentrated on the lowest income decile, and 31% concentrated on the poorest quintile.
According to the Poverty Update (2002), poor households benefited by about US$90 which is US$64 or
two-thirds more than what the non-poor received on average, reflecting the efficiency of SFD2's enhanced
pro-poor targeting mechanisms.

(iv) SFD2 supported: (a) school construction, contributing to an increase in girls' enrollment and a
reduction in gender gap; (b) social protection interventions, facilitating the integration of disadvantaged
children in mainstream education; and (c) MFIs in delivering financial services to the poor and women.

(v) Operational costs were maintained below 5%, lower than for other public agencies and well below the
average of social funds included in the recent Bank comparative study (10-13%).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. SFD established a track record in facilitating the cost-effective delivery of basic social
services, and through its support for longer term institutional development objectives, helped strengthen the
capacities of a diverse set of stakeholders at all levels for better management, coordination, and delivery of
basic services within a participatory community development framework. SFD's transparent, participatory,
and pro-poor targeting mechanisms helped maximize the stream of benefits and impact of development
project resources. Capacity building interventions contributed to local institution building, including
developing human and social capital for sustainable services delivery, and promoted good governance.
They have had positive impacts on policies and mainstream institutions. The implementation of community
demand-driven subprojects and capacity building/training activities provided local councils and local
communities with vital experience that enable them to take the lead in the development of their own
communities. SFD2 interventions have translated into improved collaboration between local councils/local
authorities and local communities in planning and managing community subprojects and in NGOs taking a



                                                       - 9 -

more proactive role in services delivery. The Project was instrumental in laying the foundation for an
emerging MF industry which did not exist prior to SFD's inception. SFD2 operations promoted the
expansion of a community-based culture in services delivery with active stakeholder participation in all
phases.

With its strengthened organizational structure, sound management, participatory approaches, systematic
use of best practices, cost-effectiveness, and enhanced targeting and M&E mechanisms, SFD2 was able to
respond to the demands of an increasing and diverse portfolio of subprojects. SFD2 increased its absorptive
capacity to commit subprojects at a value of about US$5.5 million every month and to also disburse at a
high level. SFD2's seven regional branches now make significant operational decisions in key phases of the
subproject cycle.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Price increases in the cost of construction materials have contributed to higher than anticipated subproject
costs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
GoY's commitment and support positively affected the project. Through its autonomous status, the SFD
was able to efficiently implement its program, surpass its original targets, and disburse the bulk of project
resources in advance of project closing. GoY allowed for the continued recruitment of highly qualified
individuals, while also ensuring continuity through maintaining core staff. The enactment of two laws (in
2000 and 2001) has contributed to strengthening the role of government/district councils and NGOs in
community development.

Important progress has been made to ensure the cooperation of key line ministries, albeit at varying levels.
Cooperation and partnership with the MoE improved substantially; for other line ministries (i.e., health,
water), there is a need to further deepen the level of cooperation. Although SFD2's approval for funding
subprojects was partly premised on upfront agreements with relevant line ministries to provide recurrent
costs, such agreements were not always efficiently implemented. A few completed schools and health
facilities lacked qualified personnel to effectively deliver services.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Strong commitment, action, and the systematic delivery of capacity building interventions, combined with a
shift in focus towards more explicit and sustainable community development and targeted poverty strategy
enabled SFD2 to exceed PAD expectations and maximize benefits and impacts from project resources.
Operating within its market niche in serving poor communities and households, SFD2 was successful in
assuming the role of innovator, institutionalizing the capacity to identify gaps and opportunities, build
partnerships, learn from pilots, and disseminate experiences. It strengthened its focus on community
development by broadening its agenda to include more pro-active community and local government roles in
project planning, including the execution, monitoring, and integration of SFD2 and other development
activities at local level. While broadening its menu of services to the poor (primarily through innovation),
it balanced this responsibility with a focus on the poorest communities and households and support to more
"software" interventions. SFD2 ensured close and continuous collaboration with stakeholders at all levels,
shared planning efforts, and developed effective mechanisms to promote learning across organizations.
SFD2 's implementation management performance is exemplary.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The PAD's estimated total project cost was US$175 million, including the IDA Credit of SDR56 million



                                                      - 10 -

(US$75 million at appraisal), US$23 million equivalent from GoY, Beneficiary Communities, and NGOs;
and US$77 million from other donors. The actual cost of the project was US$195.1 million , including
US$76.3 million from the IDA Credit (see Annex 9 for breakdown). Actual project cost is about 10%
higher than appraisal estimates due to: (i) additional donor resources allowing SFD2 to increase its volume
of subprojects; (ii) price increase in the cost of materials contributing to higher subproject costs; and (iii) in
education, subprojects adopting a more integrated approach to children's schooling, larger schools built to
accommodate projected utilization rates in the future, and some school construction subprojects including
supporting facilities (e.g., laboratory, library).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. First, prior to approval of subprojects, SFD2 requires: (i) up-front community commitment to fund
O&M costs of subprojects; (ii) availability of strong indicators demonstrating that activity will continue
after SFD2 involvement is phased out; (iii) heavy and continuous investments in capacity building during
the project cycle and during the post-completion stage, as necessary; and (iv) up-front agreement with
relevant line ministries on their responsibilities for covering recurrent costs. SFD2 undertakes follow-up
assessments and regular visits to subprojects two years after completion to ensure proper and adequate
treatment of O&M issues. The establishment of water user associations, parental committees and road
maintenance groups all play important roles in ensuring the sustainability of newly created assets.

Second, SFD2 systematically aligned capital investments with capacity development, and empowerment of
local communities, local NGOs, and local councils/local authorities in the participatory planning,
management and implementation of community subprojects, elements key to ensuring local ownership.
Subproject designs included numerous institutional strengthening activities, with considerable on-the-job
training. SFD2 piloted integrated interventions with continuous involvement to ensure sustainable impact
on local governments and communities.

Third, SFD2 further strengthened the capacity of MFIs to deliver a mix of financial services to an
increasing number of borrowers and savers with relatively good repayment rates. Over the years, the
SFD/SMED Unit has successfully laid the foundation of an emerging MF industry, developed its own
capacity to design and implement MF programs, as well as building from scratch the capacity of financial
intermediaries to deliver MF services. SFD2 strategically developed an MFI in areas where the potential
demand for micro-finance was high enough to justify the large investments in both technical and financial
support required to develop a sustainable program. Although the 10 MFIs supported by SFD2 have not yet
reached financial sustainability, several are well-poised to achieve this goal.

Fourth, given its demonstrated effectiveness and cost-efficiency, donor financing has continued to flow to
SFD and at increasing levels across all three phases. Consistent with its continued commitment to support
SFD, GoY agreed to increase its contribution from the planned 3% (with actual contribution reaching 5%)
for SFD2 to 10% for the third phase. SFD2 maintained its operational cost below 5%.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Building on the solid performance and achievements of SFD2, the GoY embarked on the preparation of the
Third Phase ­ Social Fund for Development III, with a US$60 million equivalent IDA Credit, two years
before the closing date of the second phase. This new project was approved by the Board on February 26,
2004 and became effective in August 15, 2004. The third phase was prepared in advance of the closing
date of SFD2 given the highly efficient and accelerated pace of implementation on the one hand, and further
increases in the demand for SFD2 interventions which required additional resources, on the other. Given



                                                       - 11 -

that SFD2's operations were implemented nationwide and in a fairly decentralized fashion, it was equally
important to ensure smooth continuing of operations. During the third phase, initial dialogue has started on
several fronts: (i) the future role of SFD within the Government's overall poverty reduction agenda; (ii) how
to strategically mainstream SFD2 activities in line ministries which have the primary role and mandate for
basic services, while also capitalizing on the strengths of SFD in areas where it has a comparative
advantage. This dialogue is ongoing.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Highly Satisfactory. The efficient preparation of the project was in part supported by the appropriate
skills mix of the Bank's team, including consultant experts, and the continuity of core members who were
involved in the first phase. Project preparation was cost-effective. Compared to other Bank projects in
Yemen, the cost of SFD2 preparation was 40%, 60% and 70% less than the first phase of SFD (FY97), the
Rural Access Improvement Program (FY01), and the Child Development Project (FY00), respectively.
Project preparation was completed in six months. The Bank team worked closely with SFD and other GoY
counterparts to adapt the design of the second phase to the evolving country context, GoY's priorities and
strategies for reducing poverty, and the Bank's CAS, and to reflect lessons learned from the implementation
of the first phase, through promoting best practices. The Bank played a lead role in donor aid coordination,
and helped mobilize about US$110 million in cofinancing. The Team was proactive in requesting a QER
with recommendations integrated into the project design, contributing to SFD2's success.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank regularly supervised the project and included the required staff expertise and
consultants in specialized fields, and other donors involved in the program regularly participated. Although
in the initial years, the Bank Team faced difficulties, both in terms of restricted travel as a result of the 9/11
incident and in recruiting good MF experts, implementation support was regularly provided by one of the
HQ-based core member of the Bank team until an MF expert was recruited. Task management of the
project was maintained with only one change at almost the end of the project life, facilitating the smooth
transition to the third phase. Supervision missions and the Mid-Term Review were effective in providing
adequate technical assistance with respect to key implementation issues, including monitoring and
evaluation, linkages of SFD2 interventions to broader social sector issues, strengthening micro-finance
programs, financial management, and capacity building within each sector of SFD2 intervention. The
Bank ensured good donor coordination. With SFD2 resources fully committed by 2003, the Bank
succeeded in organizing a Donors Meeting to mobilize resources and expedite the processing of the third
Phase.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On balance, Bank's overall performance is considered Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly Satisfactory. The GoY fulfilled its commitment to and ownership of the project by maintaining the
autonomy of the SFD2 under the Prime Minister's Office. Chaired by the Prime Minister, the Board
included senior leadership from core ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Development, Local Administration, Technical Education and Vocational Training and Education, as well
as representatives of NGOs, private sector, and civil society. The Minister of Social Affairs and Labor
also served as the Managing Director for SFD2. GoY was proactive and effectively collaborated with the
Bank team during preparation, enabling the project to be prepared, appraised, negotiated and approved in



                                                      - 12 -

six months.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The GoY maintained its strong commitment to SFD2 throughout implementation. It
supported the writing of the laws in 2000 and 2001 strengthening government/district councils and NGOs,
respectively. GoY supported the decentralization of SFD2 regional offices which now have more
decision-making capacity and the recruitment of highly qualified and well-paid staff. Important progress
has been made to strengthen the cooperation of key line ministries, albeit at varying levels. In some sectors
like health and water, there is still a need to deepen collaboration in SFD2-assisted interventions. There is
need for more systematic coordination in the overall planning and delivery of basic services to ensure
complementarity and better integration of activities implemented by SFD and line ministries, based on their
respective mandates and areas of comparative advantage. More strategic planning and efficient follow-up
are also required to ensure that line ministries do provide agreed recurrent costs of SFD2 approved
subprojects on a timely basis.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly satisfactory. The highly successful project implementation attests to the solid performance of SFD
as the implementation agency. SFD2 supported double the number of planned subprojects within a shorter
time frame and without major technical and qualitative deficiencies. SFD has a proven track record in
meeting Yemen's needs in social service delivery. Its autonomous status has permitted the SFD to recruit
and retain staff on the basis of performance based contracts and competitive salaries. This has helped
ensure staff stability. Moreover, the majority of SFD2 staff who were originally recruited for the first
phase were able to continue in the second phase, an important factor that has enabled SFD to maximize and
indeed continue to capitalize on its systematic investments in institutional capacity building and staff
training during the first two phases. By keeping a low profile and focusing on the actual delivery of social
services to the poor, the strong standings provided insulation from politicization. SFD2 promoted
innovations, strengthened demand-driven approaches to social services delivery, used a variety of
intermediaries, including NGOs, to strengthen its outreach, maximized impact on the ground, and ensured
involvement of stakeholders in policy and operational decisions. Capital investments were aligned with
capacity development; monitoring and evaluation were regularly conducted; and pro-poor targeting
mechanisms were enhanced. SFD2 continuously improved its approaches and operational modalities,
innovating to ensure that its interventions are effective, cost-efficient, participatory, and sustainable.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower's performance is considered Highly Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Targeting mechanisms that are strengthened to reflect lessons and experiences during implementation
allow for more effective channeling of project development resources to the poorest and vulnerable.
SFD2 enhanced pro-poor targeting mechanisms to strengthen its outreach and services delivery in poorer
communities and households, while addressing issues of national priority (e.g., girls' education). This
contributed to a progressive allocation of project resources to governorates and districts in accordance with
their level of poverty, and helped create vital public assets with a positive impact on local services
availability, especially for the poorest.

Well-designed monitoring and evaluation systems allow for a meaningful tracking of project
performance and achievements, responsiveness to priority needs of target beneficiaries, and informed
decision-making. By strengthening its capacity and instruments for monitoring and evaluation, SFD2 was
able to systematically track and report on program performance of a growing and diverse portfolio of


                                                      - 13 -

subprojects nationwide, community household impacts, cost-effectiveness of interventions, and outcomes of
capacity building interventions.

By aligning capital investments with capacity development, the stream of benefits and impact of
development project resources can be maximized. Capacity building activities were systematically
provided, particularly at the local community and local government levels, not just to implement
subprojects but to be able to take charge of their future development. These interventions contributed to the
sustainability of service flows over the operational life of the investments. Continued engagement with local
communities during the post-completion phase and monitoring of O&M issues with additional technical
assistance and/or training provided, when needed, enhances the sustainability of new assets.

Commitment, action, a strong drive for results, and flexibility to respond to evolving needs, are
important elements to enhancing project effectiveness. SFD2 systematically aimed to apply best
practices, learn from pilots, and integrate lessons and experiences from implementation to further
strengthen its portfolio of subprojects, with a focus on results. Through its participatory, flexible, and
cost-effective approaches, SFD2 was able to achieve its development objectives with a high level of
beneficiary satisfaction, strengthened local capacity for sustainable community development, close
alignment of project interventions with relevant national and/or sector policies and strategies, and a greater
sense of ownership.

Maximizing development impact requires that interventions be designed in a more integrated fashion and
that the necessary complementary inputs, including "software", are in place. Water supply subprojects
have little positive impact on health unless supported by complementary sanitation and hygiene
interventions. Integrated approaches that treat children's education in a holistic fashion do enhance
children's participation in schooling and contribute to positive learning.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

A detailed Borrower Evaluation Report has been submitted to the Bank, and is available on request.

Executive summary

The government of Yemen has established the Social Fund for Development (SFD) in 1997 as one of the
instruments to contribute effectively to the implementation of the State's social and economic plans.

Understanding that government agencies have insufficient capacity to deliver basic services to a large
segment of the poor population; SFD constitutes a complementary mechanism to state-run service delivery
for the provision of social services and assistance to the poor. The government of Yemen is embarking on
civil service reform; however, it is going to be a long-term process to measure tangible results of improving
institutional capacity.

Donor assessments indicate that the SFD is no longer merely an effective service delivery mechanism;
rather it has become a model agency of best practice, as it consistently and positively affects the process of
development in Yemen.

SFD's development objective, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), is to improve the range
of services and options available to the poorer sections of the Yemeni population through a combination of



                                                     - 14 -

community development, capacity building, and microfinance programs. The project would continue to
support SFD, which has proven to be a significant element in Yemen's strategy of spreading the benefits of
growth and protecting the poor.

During its 2nd Phase, SFD has benefited from a Credit (3353­YEM) provided by IDA (a total amount of
SDR56 million equivalent to US$ 75 million). In addition to the government funding and to the beneficiary
contribution, SFD was co-financed by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (KD 15
million equivalent to US$ 49.8 million), the European Union (Euro 15 million split over the first and the
second phase), the Dutch Government (US$ 26.4 million), the American Government (two grants totaling
US$ 13.5 million), the Islamic Development Bank (US$ 6 million) and DFID (US$ 2.8 million).

The following key performance indicators were identified during the design: (a) increased access to better
community facilities and services including facilities and services targeted to those with special needs; (b)
an increase in the number of microfinance clients and beneficiaries from income-generating projects; and
(c) the increased capacity of SFD partners focusing on communities, CBOs and NGOs. During the 2nd
phase, SFD has achieved the following project objectives and outputs:

Achievement of Project Objectives and Outputs

A. Community Development: improving access to basic social services

A total amount of $140 million was planned for this component for the entire second phase to benefit 2
million people with improved access to basic services such as basic education, health, water supply and
sanitation, and improved road access. In Education, SFD has broaden its mission to support more software
type of interventions and quality of education to enhance the sustainability of its sub-projects, by Increasing
access to basic education and implementing programs to enhance the quality of education. In health, the
SFD's intervention provided local communities with services and training, involving local councils and
district health authorities as to bridge the gap between them. In water the SFD focused on rainwater
harvesting, as the best option for Yemen rural communities, improving physical access of isolated
communities through feeder roads, social protection, environment, cultural heritage and integrated
intervention.

B. Micro finance and Income Generating Programs

The Microfinance (MF) and Income Generating Programs (IGPs) were implemented by the SFD's SMED
Unit during Phase II. These programs help creating and sustaining jobs as well as increasing access of the
poor to financial services through developing local capacity to provide training, technical assistance and
credit to small and micro-entrepreneurs. The financial and non-financial services are provided by the Small
Enterprise Program. Eleven MF programs have been established, and they provide financial and technical
support. These programs have 31 branches in 10 governorates, with the number of active borrowers as of
September 2005 reaching 25,071, while the number of loans disbursed is 79,865. Eight IGPs were
established in areas considered to be among the poorest in Yemen; however, lack of proper infrastructure,
institutional capacity, and suitable staff, as well as the IGPs being centered in one activity (animal raising),
resulted in closing down all the programs in 2000 in agreement with WB.

C. Capacity Building of CBOs, NGOs, Local Authorities and Selected Government Departments

Building the capacity of SFD partners (local councils/local authorities) is essential to make them effective
in development, which will insure sustainability to SFD investments and support for NGOs and


                                                       - 15 -

cooperatives. Consequently, this has improved the technical, organizational and administrative performance
of these organizations. In addition, active participation by communities and their groups have empowered
community organizations and assured their engagement in the entire project cycle, with emphasis given to
address the needs of women and disadvantaged groups. CBOs were also supported and educated on their
rights to approach government offices to demand staffing and other inputs for their facilities.


(b) Cofinanciers:

The Dutch submitted written comments on the ICR, expressing their agreement with the ICR findings.
Recommendations for the future include: (i) GoY and Development Partners (DPs) jointly formulate a clear
strategic vision on the role and mandate of the SFD and that this be reflected in the Aid Policy Paper under
preparation; (ii) DPs continue to harmonize their support to the SFD; and (iii) further strengthen
alignment of SFD interventions with sectoral and cross-sectoral policies.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             (TARGET VALUE)

Number of people benefiting from improved    Direct Beneficiaries (DB): 2,000,000    Direct Beneficiaries (DB): 4,493,696
services by subproject types:                                                        Indirect Beneficiaries (IB): 2,205,945

                                                                                     Cultural Heritage:
                                                                                     DB: 326,069; IB: 111,986

                                                                                     Education:
                                                                                     DB: 469,481; IB: 62,901

                                                                                     Environment:
                                                                                     DB: 821,697
                                                                                     IB: 31,075

                                                                                     Health :
                                                                                     DB: 829,048
                                                                                     IB: 289,917

                                                                                     Integrated Interventions:
                                                                                     DB: 34,146
                                                                                     IB: 1,143

                                                                                     Micro Credit
                                                                                     DB: 35,116
                                                                                     ID: 180,495

                                                                                     Organizational Support
                                                                                     DB: 165,194
                                                                                     IB: 387,261

                                                                                     Roads:
                                                                                     DB: 815,441
                                                                                     ID: 828,626

                                                                                     Small Enterprises:
                                                                                     DB: 2,030
                                                                                     IB: 21,425

                                                                                     Special Needs Group
                                                                                     DB: 65,084
                                                                                     ID: 37,205

                                                                                     Training
                                                                                     DB: 15,113
                                                                                     IB: 101,339

                                                                                     Water:
                                                                                     DB: 1,005,277
                                                                                     IB: 152,572

Number of Cisterns rehabilitated to increase 100                                     640 cisterns rehabilitated.
water resources

Number of Micro Finance programs and         8 Micro Finance Programs                10 Micro Finance Programs operational;
income generating programs (IGPs)            20 Income Generating Programs           No IGPs operational by end of project.
operational for lending and employment
generation activities.

Number of Communities trained to take on     140                                     292 communities trained to take on
community based delivery of social services                                          community-based delivery of social services.




                                                               - 17 -

1End of Project Target Value
Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                               (TARGET VALUE)

Number of children enrolled in SFD schools.    400,000                            DB: 469,481; IB: 62,901


Number of people with increased access to      900,000                            DB: 829,048; IB: 289,917
SFD health units.


Number of people served by increased water 300,000                                Increased water resources:
sources through water harvesting schemes.                                         DB: 1,005,277; IB: 152,572
                                                                                  Environmental Sanitation:
                                                                                  DB: 821,697; IB: 31,075


Number of people in rural and most deprived 200,000                               DB: 815,441 individuals, mostly from
areas accessed through construction/rehab.                                        rural/remote areas; IB: 828,626 individuals
of feeder roads.


Number of main road networks connected by 10                                      77 feeder roads constructed/improved,
feeder roads with access to primary and                                           totaling 737 Km.
secondary schools, and health clinics.


Pilot subprojects for renovating old sites and 3                                  Successful subprojects piloted in Old City of
equipping with modern facilities will be                                          Sana'a, and cities of Shibam, Zabid.
launched in three cities


Income generating opportunities created                                           6.9 million of man-days of employment
through labor intensive works required for                                        created by the SFD2 Project as a whole.
developing culture based enterprise and
tourism.


Micro-Finance: number of individuals directly DB: 16,000                          Number of Borrowers: 23,856
and indirectly benefiting from this program;   IB: 98,000                         Number of Savers: 26,815
increased institutional viability of the MFIs.                                    IB: 180,495


Income Generating Programs: number of          DB:8,000                           Total of 6,895 individuals benefited from
people benefiting directly and indirectly from IB: 45,000                         IGPs prior to their closure in the later years of
these schemes.                                                                    Project implementation.


Number of NGOs trained. Training to be         80                                 411 NGOs trained in various aspects,
dominated by accounting and financial                                             including accounting, financial management,
management followed by project development                                        participatory approaches, community-based
and project technical issues.                                                     services delivery.


Number of CBOs trained and which take on       140                                292 CBOs trained and take on activities to
the activities to deliver services.                                               deliver services


SFD to carry out Impact Assessment.                                               Impact Assessment carried out in 2003.


Results of Impact Assessment used to                                              Results of Impact Assessment used to
improve poverty targeting & resource                                              enhance poverty targeting and resource
allocation.                                                                       allocation, and strengthen outreach
                                                                                  vulnerable groups.


1End of project
Target Value




                                                               - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                               US$ million    US$ million
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                              99.00        168.64            170
MICRO FINANCE & INCOME GENERATION                                  15.00           4.20            28
CAPACITY BUILDING                                                  46.00         22.30             48

Total Baseline Cost                                               160.00        195.14
 Physical Contingencies                                             4.00
 Price Contingencies                                               11.00
                          Total Project Costs                     175.00        195.14
                  Total Financing Required                        175.00        195.14


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB                   2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                              0.00            74.00            8.20         0.00       82.20
                                     (0.00)          (25.80)          (6.80)        (0.00)     (32.60)
2. Goods                              5.00             8.20            0.90         0.00       14.10
                                     (4.20)           (6.20)          (0.60)        (0.00)     (11.00)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           78.30         0.40       78.70
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (31.40)       (0.00)     (31.40)
4. Operating Cost*                    0.00             0.00            0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                              5.00            82.20           87.40         0.40       175.00
                                     (4.20)          (32.00)          (38.80)       (0.00)     (75.00)
*Other categories of the appraisal estimate include operating cost.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB                  2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                              2.35           142.82           15.68         0.00      160.85
                                     (1.25)          (50.81)          (6.64)       (0.00)     (58.70)
2. Goods                              0.00            6.33            10.08         0.00      16.41
                                     (0.00)           (2.75)          (3.86)       (0.00)     (6.61)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00             9.87         0.00       9.87
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (4.11)       (0.00)     (4.11)
4. Operating Cost*                    0.00            0.00             8.01         0.00       8.01
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (6.88)       (0.00)     (6.88)
   Total                              2.35           149.15           43.64         0.00      195.14
                                     (1.25)          (53.56)         (21.49)       (0.00)     (76.30)



                                                   - 19 -

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
      managing the project .



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank       Govt.         CoF.        Bank          Govt.      CoF.        IDA      Govt.    CoF.
COMMUNITY                     60.00        6.00        74.00        62.00         6.54      100.10      103.3    109.0     135.3
DEVELOPMENT
MICRO FINANCE &                5.00        1.00         9.00         0.60         0.60       3.00       12.0      60.0     33.3
INCOME GENERATION
CAPACITY BUILDING             10.00        3.00         7.00        13.70         2.80       5.80       137.0     93.3     82.9




                                                         - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Recognizing the multi-sectoral and demand-driven characteristics of social funds, SFD2's ultimate portfolio
of investments could not be determined a priori. Justification for expanding SFD2's activities was based on
grounds of the cost-efficiency of its subprojects, administrative efficiency, and pro-poor targeting
mechanisms. During preparation, the approach to economic analysis considered three issues which are
discussed below.

Justification for the Social Fund in the context of country assistance strategy and macroeconomic
framework.

SFD2 addressed two of the four main objectives of the CAS, focusing on: a) Targeted Social Improvements
for Poverty Alleviation; and b) Water Management for Environmental Sustainability and Social Peace.
SFD2's targeted areas of investment included sustainable community development, micro-enterprise
development, and capacity building at all levels. SFD2 supported a gradual devolution of responsibilities
to service-based community organizations, local governments, or NGOs to manage basic social and
economic services This has led to improvements in the quality of local basic services, reduced unit costs of
infrastructure, accountability at local level, and the transparent use and management of resources.
Through the alignment of capital investments with capacity development, SFD2 has contributed to the
development of social and human capital and local institution building, factors that help maximize the
impact and stream of benefits from project resources and ensure sustainability. Its effective targeting
mechanisms has facilitated greater inclusion of vulnerable groups into the mainstream socioeconomic
culture.

Continuously operating as one of the major instruments of GoY's poverty reduction initiatives, SFD2
substantially contributed to broadening the base of beneficiaries of economic change, with particular focus
on capacitating poor communities to help themselves and to gradually take the lead in their development
process. With the exception of subprojects directed to providing assistance for those unable to help
themselves such as street children or the mentally and physically handicapped, beneficiary communities
contributed towards investment and recurrent costs and are playing an important role in the management of
basic services and maintenance of newly created community assets.

Justification for public funding in view of externalities and direct poverty impact.

(a)     Crowding-out and Crowding-in. Subprojects financed under SFD2 had a substantial and
increasing sectoral impact, particularly in education and health. In 2003, GoY's total spending in education
and health was YER106.56 billion (about US$549.3 million equivalent) and YER29.5 billion (about
US$151.8 million). SFD2 spending in education and health for the period 2001-2004 was about US$95.3
million and US$13.1 million, respectively. The amount spent by SFD2 represents about 15% of total GoY
spending in 2003 which is even lower when the four year span is considered. Given that there is not
enough private infrastructure to reach target communities, especially those in remote areas being served by
SFD2, the risk of crowding out private financing remains to be very low. SFD2 targets mostly activities
which complement, instead of substitute, government activities.

As for crowding in, the SFD2 was instrumental in mobilizing foreign funding for its activities. Donor
contributions increased from US$80 million for Phase 1 to US$185 million for Phase II and is expected to
reach around US$340 million for Phase III; the corresponding increases in IDA commitments were US$30
million, US$75 million, and US$60 million, respectively. In addition, SFD encourages local ownership by
requiring a significant share of capital contributions to be paid upfront by the community, thus resulting in



                                                      - 21 -

crowding in of funds of the beneficiaries themselves. Although the average community contribution was
6%, contributions varied across sectors as shown in Annex; lower contributions were generally sought from
poorer communities.

(b) Case for public spending. Public funding can be justified on two grounds. First, activities such as
capacity building in local communities or providing assistance to the poorest sectors of the population,
especially in very remote areas, do not generally interest the private sector as these activities do not yield a
return and therefore only the Government can fund them. Second, there are some activities in which the
Government competes with the private sector like the provision of education and health services. In this
case, Government intervention is justified on the grounds that the social rate of return is higher than the
private rate, making an activity non-profitable for the private sector but still worth pursuing through public
funding. For example, while building a clinic may be profitable, building a clinic targeted to the bottom
two decile of the population may not be attractive to the private sector.

(c) Poverty targeting performance. Although designed as a Social Fund, SFD2 took a more strategic and
proactive role in targeting the poorest and vulnerable groups. For the second phase, three types of targeting
(geographic, sector, and social) were used. Geographic targeting allocates funds to governorate and
districts based on the number of poor households they have; within districts, a demand driven approach is
used and further targeting is achieved on village level indicators and probability of an intervention's
success; (ii) sector targeting focuses on redressing problems such as low girls' enrollment, health worker
shortages, etc. and (iii) social targeting focuses on groups with special needs. For the second phase, 30
percent of total resources go to supply driven special programs and to target socially marginalized groups;
the remaining 70 percent are allocated to governorates and districts using an index constructed from data
on access to basic needs from the 1994 Census and data on income poverty from the 1999 National Poverty
Survey, with equal weight. Use of these targeting mechanisms has allowed SFD2 to correct for weaknesses
in the demand-driven concept of project identification by taking a more active role in targeting vulnerable
groups and the poorest communities who are less organized or inadequately represented by intermediaries

Results of the incidence analysis (IES, 2003) showed that SFD has reached the poorest households, with
17% going to the poorest decile and 44% to the poorest three deciles. The distributive impact of SFD's
improved targeting of project resources across sector-specific subprojects is summarized in Table 1,
indicating that distribution has been progressive. With the exception of micro credit, the distribution
indexes illustrate the consistency of the pattern across sector-specific subprojects with distribution indexes
between 0.176 and 0.256.



Table 1: Benefit Incidence of SFD
                                            Population deciles from poor (1) to rich (10)                          Distribution
Sector                         1           2       3        4        5        6      7     8     9     10 Total       Index
Educaton                   16.8         14.5    12.1     10.9    11.7       6.1    8.8   8.8   6.3    4.0     100         0.201
Water                      18.2         13.9    14.1     10.5    10.8       9.9    7.0   6.9   6.5    2.3     100         0.176
Health                     15.6         14.4    12.8      9.6      12       7.8    7.9   7.8   5.2    7.0     100         0.242
Rural Roads                15.2         18.9    14.2     10.9    10.9       8.9    6.5   6.6   2.3    5.5     100         0.256
Micro Credit 1/              8.2         7.0     9.8     10.5      7.5    14.1     7.7 14.1    7.6   13.6     100         -0.072
                Total      16.6         14.5    12.6     10.7    11.4       7.4    8.2   8.3   6.0    4.3     100         0.204
    Data: SFD2 MIS and IES (2003)
1/ Support under the MF Component to richest decile is due to one program (in Sana'a) targets SMEs. Owners of businesses
were not necessarily poor but did employ the poor. A few other MFIs have businesses that have grown, from street
stalls to real shops, to for instance a formerly poor lady now having three shops.




                                                                      - 22 -

Based on data provided by SFD2/MIS during the ICR Mission, Table 2 provides the distribution of
subprojects and project resources by governorate. Consistent with SFD2's enhanced targeting mechanisms,
close to one-third of project resources have been channeled to the five poorest governorates. The increase in
subprojects for Sana'a City was due mainly to the implementation of cultural heritage subprojects, school
construction to ease overcrowding, numerous training and organizational support interventions, integrated
interventions to increase girls' participation in schooling, and social protection interventions to address the
special needs of vulnerable groups such as children at risk.

Table 2: Distribution of SFD2 Subprojects and Resources by Governorate (December 2005)
                   Tot. SFD2 Subprojects  Sector/Social Targeting   Geographical Targeting                        1999

                   No. of    Estimated    No. of      Estimated      No. of      Estimated Households Living in Poverty          Poverty

                  Projects      Cost      Projects       Cost       Projects       Cost        No.         %           Total      Index

Taiz               250       19,098,978     65         3,507,346     185        15,591,632     135,517     14.1          315,188    0.430

Al-Hodaida         215       18,782,972     52         4,207,783     163        14,575,189     131,252     13.6          310,095    0.423

Ibb                166       12,325,101     49         2,626,481     117         9,698,620     105,140     10.9          253,394    0.415

Hajja              154       12,386,380     27         1,276,572     127        11,109,808      95,121       9.9         207,607    0.458

Sana'a             180       12,703,493     69         3,247,467     111         9,456,026      64,889       6.7         161,707    0.401

Dhamar             178       11,566,532     71         4,223,278     107         7,343,254      63,176       6.6         159,197    0.397

Hadhramout         152        9,357,519     68         3,514,709      84         5,842,810      45,452       4.7         110,801    0.410

Amran              145       11,106,959     58         3,743,234      87         7,363,725      41,172       4.3         109,368    0.376

Sana'a City        224       24,302,897    192        19,573,826      32         4,729,071      36,294       3.8         186,296    0.195

Lahj                72        4,525,399     22          673,625       50         3,851,774      35,119       3.7         87,245     0.403

Al-Jawf             37        2,687,454      5          99,281        32         2,588,173      32,007       3.3         71,662     0.447

Sa'ada              55        4,261,883     19         1,164,540      36         3,097,342      29,857       3.1         73,582     0.406

Al-Baida            61        5,698,563      9         1,750,268      52         3,948,295      27,999       2.9         63,711     0.439

Al-Mahwit           78        6,375,365     27         1,369,122      51         5,006,243      25,192       2.6         62,093     0.406

Shabwa              59        3,445,671      5          121,227       54         3,324,444      22,493       2.3         55,672     0.404

Abyan               48        3,288,412     18          951,166       30         2,337,246      20,289       2.1         52,010     0.390

Aden                67        6,986,065     47         3,855,190      20         3,130,875      19,461       2.0         74,253     0.262

Ad-dale             35        2,557,615      9          607,612       26         1,950,003      18,467       1.9         48,555     0.380

Mareb               33        4,040,301      8         2,227,898      25         1,812,403      10,447       1.1         28,652     0.365

Al-Mahra            17        938,160        3          49,885        14         888,275         2,384       0.2          8,562     0.278

   > than one
   governorate     177        8,608,131    177           8,608,131     0             0

Total              2,403     185,043,850   1,000      67,398,641     1,403     117,645,209     961,729      100        2,439,650      -

Source: Data from SFD2 (December, 2005)




Cost effectiveness of the social fund as a delivery mechanism compared to other agencies.

(a) Unit Cost of subprojects. Unit costs of SFD2 subprojects varied across sectors. Based on the data
provided by the SFD2 MIS for completed subprojects, the average cost of subprojects has been calculated.
Organizational support, education and cultural heritage subprojects are the top three sectors were unit costs
were high, ranging from about US$136,000 (education) to about US$250,000 (organizational support).




                                                               - 23 -

                               Table 3: Average costs of completed subprojects per direct beneficiary
                                   Type of Subproject        Average cost per subproject      Average cost per
                                                                                              direct beneficiary
                                                                    (US$'000)
                               Cultural Heritage                       155                           37

                               Education                               136                          203

                               Environment                              128                          8

                               Health                                   124                          16

                               Integrated Intervention                  128                          60

                               Micro Credit                              48                          78

                               Organizational Support                   250                          29

                               Roads                                    134                          15

                               Small Enterprise                          36                         632

                               Special Needs Group                      133                         131

                               Training                                  35                         143

                               Water                                     76                          27


                             Source: SFD2 MIS Data (December 2005)


A review of subprojects financed under SFD2 also show that subprojects piloted with community
contracting/direct implementation yield lower unit costs with generally satisfactory quality of works. Table
4 below shows that in the case of subprojects focusing on cultural heritage and improving the poor's access
to markets and basic services, cost savings were realized through direct implementation by beneficiaries.

                     Table 4: Unit Cost Comparisons: Direct Implementation vs. Contractor Implementation


                                                     Unit Price                     Unit price
                                              Contractor Implemented          Direct Implementation
                Item            Unit    Rujum Road         Royaim Road-     Bab Arid    Salf Road -        Market
                                        Mahweet            Sana'a           Road ­      Taiz                Price
                                                                            Sana'a
 Site clearance and widening    Km             800               -            410            520            1,092
 Common Excavation              M3              2               1.8            0.8           1.3             2.1
 Rock Excavation                M3             3.8              4.2            2.3           3.2             4.3
 Bounder Masonry                M3             19               14            10.5           9.4             23
 Coursed Rubble Masonry         M3             36               42             27             23             44.2
 Grouted Rip Rap                M2             11               10             8.5            -              12
 Stone Pavement                 M2             13               12             9             7.8             17
 Reinforced Concrete            M3             98               100            82             -              101



(b) Cost per Beneficiaries. Table 3 above shows that the average cost per direct beneficiary varied across
sectors, ranging from US$8 for environmental interventions to US$632 for small enterprise development
activities. Overall, the average cost per direct beneficiary is estimated at US$41. Interventions in support
of small enterprises development, education, training, and special needs group were the most expensive
when direct beneficiaries are considered. Health, roads, and water subprojects with a larger number of
beneficiaries are less expensive on a per capita basis than the other activities. For education subprojects,
only students currently enrolled in the schools that were constructed and/or expanded have been considered,
whereas in health subprojects, the number of beneficiaries was higher and extended to the entire
community.

(c) Administrative Efficiency. SFD2 continues to make commendable efforts in strengthening its
institutional capacity which is evident from the further expansion and diversification of its portfolio in key



                                                               - 24 -

sectors of the economy. Its overhead and administrative expenses have been maintained below 5% and have
a direct bearing on the social rate of return of its portfolio. Capacity of SFD2 staff in headquarters and
regional branches have been strengthened to effectively deliver training and/or technical guidance as part of
community development subprojects in the absence of local or international expertise. Indirectly, this has
benefitted and better prepared SFD2 staff to get practical and hands-on experience of the field work, built
their capacity to handle not only bigger size but also more integrated subprojects and deliver them with
efficiency and accountability. SFD has now seven regional branches with greater decision-making
responsibilities, enhanced ability to reach target groups, systematically monitor progress of their respective
programs, and effectively disseminate and build on lessons learned during implementation.

Impact of Education Subprojects.

SFD2 continues to be significant contributor to expanding access to school, with particular attention to
increasing girls' participation in education. Overall, the results of SFD2's school construction operations
are very positive with (a) very high outcomes in terms of new facilities for both existing schools and new
schools; and (b) a high increase of the school construction capacity with a total construction of 6,534 new
classrooms, providing close to 373,500 new student places to beneficiaries (average of 57 students per
classroom). The rehabilitation/expansion of 1,439 classrooms are expected to accommodate an additional
82,000 students.

The presence of SFD2 support continues to be a significant factor in school enrollment. According to the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2003-2005), gross enrollment rates in basic education during the period
2001-2004 increased from 62.9% to 67.6% and the number of classes in basic education in public schools
increased from 116,788 to 124,251. Over the same period, SFD2 constructed 6,534 new classrooms.
Although subject to further validation, this suggests that the Project substantially contributed to increasing
access in basic education.

SFD2 paid particular attention to low attendance rates of girls by constructing new schools and classrooms
specifically for girls as well as piloted integrated interventions to address factors that prevent girls from
participating in school, therefore allowing for a higher female enrollment rate in beneficiary communities.
During the period 2001-2004, female enrollment rates increased from 45.9% to 52.7%, respectively. Over
the same period, the number of schools for girls increased from 501 to 554.




                                                       - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1/31/2000                 7    TTL/Economist, Financial Sector
                                             Specialist (FSS), Environmental
                                             Specialist (ES), Operations
                                             Officer (OO), Research Analyst
                                             (RA), Procurement Specialist
                                             (PS).


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              2/24/2000                 7    TTL/Economist, FSS, ES,
                                             OA, RA, PS, OA


 Supervision
              05/28/2001                5    TTL; OA, Micro-Finance                S               S
                                             Specialist (MF); Technical
                                             Auditor ; Impact Assessment
                                             Specialist
              01/19/2002                4    TTL/Operations Officer, RA, PS,       S               S
                                             FMS
              05/06/2002                2    TTL/Social Fund Spec.; Program        S               S
                                             Assistant (PA)
              05/15/2003                5    TTL/Social Fund Spec., Social         S              HS
                                             Protection Specialist (SPS), FMS,
                                             Agriculture Economist, OA
              05/13/2004                5    TTL/Social Fund Spec.; M&E            S              HS
                                             Specialist (ME); FMS; PS;
                                             Decentralization Specialist
              12/15/2004                6    TTL/Social Fund Spec., SP,
                                             Social Development Spec., OA,
                                             ES, FMS
              05/11/2005                6    TTL/Social Protection Spec. MF,       S              HS
                                             Water & Sanitation Specialist
                                             (WSS), PS, FMS, OA


 ICR
              12/15/2005                4     TTL/Social Protection Spec.          HS             HS
                                              WSS, Sr. Operations
                                              Officer/ICR Author, OA




                                              - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               20                       54,895
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    28                       76,853
  Supervision                              62                      171,554
  ICR                                      12                       33,204
  Total                                  122                       336,506




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


  1. Implementation Completion Report for Social Fund for Development Project I,
      November 24, 2003.
  2. Social Fund for Development, Project Appraisal Document, April 11, 2000.
  3. Republic of Yemen ­ Poverty Update, IBRD, December 11, 2002.
  4. Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper: 2003-2005, Government of Yemen, May 31, 2002.
  5. Yemen Social Fund for Development ­ Micro Finance Activities: Past, Present and
      Future, 2004.
  6. Yemen Social Fund for Development ­ Impact Evaluation Report 2003, Final Report.
  7. Yemen Social Fund for Development Annual Report, 2004.
  8. Yemen Social Fund for Development, Mid-Term Review, IDA, May 3, 2003.
  9. Scaling up Poverty Reduction, Global Learning Process and Shanghai Conference
      Case Study - Yemen Social Fund for Development, December 9, 2003.
  10. Yemen Social Fund for Development - Operational Manual, August 2003.
  11. Yemen Social Fund for Development - Guidelines for Operations, December 2004.
  12. The Social Fund for Development: Review of Its Disability Programme 2004.
  13. The Social Fund for Development: Disability Programme Strategy 2004-2008.
  14. Working for Inclusion ­ The Social Fund for Development and Disabled People
      in Yemen, April 2004.
  15. Social Fund for Development ­ Vision for the Third Phase (2004-2008), October 2003.
  16. The Integrated Community Development Programme ­ Proposal for an Expansion Phase,
      February 2004.
  17. Social Fund for Development - the Integrated Community Development
      Programme ­ Mid-Term Review, January 2005.
  18. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation in Yemen, Andy Robinson, April 2005.




                                           - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. SFD2 Investments


Table 1: SFD2 Investments by Sector (as of December 2005)
                                                                          (in US Dollars)                    (in days)
                           Number of Subprojects            Total      Average       Community Contribution  Average
                                                           Amount      Subproject              % of Sub-     Completion
Sector                  Ongoing   Completed Total        Contracted    Cost        Total        project cost   Time
Cultural Heritage          36           29       65        8,807,105.84    154,522      129,424    1.5%        431
Education                  127         907      1034      96,281,744.22    136,158    4,639,483    4.9%        486
Environment                14           51       65        6,294,912.21    127,702    1,239,306   19.7%        485
Health                     19          152      171       13,478,393.76    123,503      295,269    2.2%        551
Integrated Intervention     5           23       28        1,054,304.50    127,794      206,553   10.1%        597
Micro Credit               10           33       43        2,734,197.91     48,177        5,282    0.2%        192
Organizational Support      9          133      142        4,726,009.87    250,003      109,279    2.3%        474
Roads                      25           80      105       12,376,072.30    133,813      949,657    7.7%        555
Small Enterprises           4           6        10        1,283,415.00     35,647 -               N/A         234
Special Needs Group        19          143      162        8,508,665.38    133,419      218,572    2.6%        506
Training                    -          157      157        2,159,157.53     35,169          545    N/A         160
Water                      75          346      421       27,143,847.48     75,999    3,115,017   11.5%        600
Total                      343        2060      2403     184,847,826.00  1,381,906   10,908,387    5.9%        439




 Table 2: SFD2 Direct and Indirect Beneficiaries
                                               Number of Beneficiaries
                Sector           Direct          Indirect      Total       of which Female
 Cultural Heritage                      236,069        111,986     348,055         177,326
 Education                              469,481         62,901     532,382         217,883
 Environment                            821,697         31,075     852,772         417,045
 Health                                 829,048        289,917   1,118,965         644,666
 Integrated Intervention                  34,146         1,143      35,289          18,296
 Micro Credit                             35,116       180,595     215,711         126,714
 Organizational Support                 165,194        387,261     552,455         279,987
 Roads                                  815,441        828,626   1,644,067         824,484
 Small Enterprises                         2,030        21,425      23,455           7,370
 Special Needs Group                      65,084        37,205     102,289          43,114
 Training                                 15,113       101,339     116,452          61,799
 Water                                1,005,277        152,572   1,157,849         583,890
                           Total      4,493,696      2,206,045   6,699,741       3,402,574




                                                     - 31 -

                      Table 3: Jobs Created by Project Component
                                                                                Jobs Created
                                  Component                     Temporary        Permanent          Total
                      Community Development                         8,678,226              22,602     8,700,828
                      Small & Micro Enterprise Dev.                     33,700                 400       34,100
                      Capacity Building                                674,532               2,002      676,534
                                                      Total         9,386,458              25,004     9,411,462


                      Table 4: Total Beneficiaries by Gender
                                                                                Beneficiaries
                                  Component                     Male             Female             Total
                      Community Development                         2,936,173          2,936,917      5,873,090
                      Small & Micro Enterprise Dev.                    100,896           132,901        233,797
                      Capacity Building                                259,998           332,756        592,754
                                                      Total         3,297,067          3,402,574      6,699,641


                      Table 5: Subprojects Implemented with Community Contracting
                                 and Direct Implementation Arrangements
                                                                                                  No. of
                                  Sector                        Implementation Type               Subprojects
                           Cultural Heritage                    Direct Implementation                     4
                               Education                       Community Contracting                      6
                                                                Direct Implementation                    26
                                  Roads                        Community Contracting                      2
                                                                Direct Implementation                    60
                                  Water                        Community Contracting                      1
                                               Total                                                     99


Table 6: Summary of SFD2-Assisted Micro Finance Programs (as of December 2005)
                                           Active Number of Clients                                  Cumulative

                                       Borrowers                 Savers                               Numbers           OSS  FSS
                                                                               Outstand ing
No.          Program                                                           loan portfolio
                                                                      Women                    Number of  Loan Amounts
                                  Total     (%)Women       Total               )million YR(
                                                                       (%)                       loans    )Million YR(


 1 Al-Hudaidah MC                 2,490         83            0          0          22          14,524         420      40   37

 2 Hais S&C                       1,210         92         1,210        92          51           4,238         176      199  87

 3 Wadi Hadhramaut                 752           9           186       100          30           1,504         101      134  53

 4 Aden MF Foundation             5,710         78         9,274        85         117          13,788         463      145  86

 5 Sana'a MF                      2,195         85          2195       100          42           5,885         235      77   55

 6 National MF Foundation         7,926        10884       10,661      100         159          16,835         532      135  64

 7 Bait Al-Faqeeh S & C           1,294         96         1,091        97          14           2,468         53       94   52

 8 Sana'a Microstart (SOFD)        254          81            0          0           2           7,829         125      12    9

 9 Al-Awa'el MF Company           2,258         100          0           0          25          11,232         240      94   73

10 Abyan S & C                    1,499         100           0          0          32           2,809         85.4     164  85

            Total                 25,588         -         24,617        -         494          81,112        2,430           -




                                                                     - 32 -

Table 7: Types of social infrastructure supported by SFD2
    Sector                       Type                                 Number
Education         Construction and Rehabilitation        · 6534 new classrooms; 1439 existing
                                                           classrooms

Health            Construction/Rehabilitation            · 71 health facilities

Water             Construction                           · 640 cisterns
                                                         · 65 environmental sanitation
                                                           subprojects, focusing on sewerage,
                                                           soil and water conservation, solid
                                                           waste management)
                                                         · 50 gravity fed water supply schemes
                                                         · 36 dams

Roads             Rural roads (i.e. earthwork,           · Completed 737 Km of feeder roads
                  construction, construction of          · Paved 316,585 square meters of
                  culverts and drainage systems; and       streets in urban areas
                  Paving roads in some
                  neighborhoods of big cities and
                  secondary towns.

Preservation of   Renovation, restoration                · 65 subprojects to preserve
Cultural Assets                                            historically significant/cultural
                                                           assets; with some subprojects
                                                           including other social sector
                                                           activities (i.e. reviving of green areas
                                                           in public places, water cisterns,
                                                           sewerage treatment, environmental
                                                           and sanitation, etc.)

Special Needs     Renovation, rehabilitation,            · Renovation/construction of facilities
Group             construction                             benefiting 5000 special needs
                                                           students
                                                         · Rehabilitation of buildings to make
                                                           them more access to people with
                                                           disabilities
                                                         · Creation of multi-purpose centers for
                                                           street children, juvenile delinquents
                                                           and orphans




                                                   - 33 -

Additional Annex 9. Sources of Financing

Breakdown of Sources of Financing


                                                                               Commitments
              Source of Financing                     (Currency of Commitment in millions)          (in US$ million                Estimated Actual
                                                                                                      equivalent)                  Disbursements 1/
                                                                                                                                (in US$ million equiv.)
IDA                                                 SDR 56.00 million                                     75.00                            76.30



Dutch Gov. YE024601                                 Euro 24.00                                            26.50                            28.20

European Union (YEM/B7/3000)                        Euro 12.40                                            13.90                            12.60

Arab Fund 425/2002                                  KD 15.00                                              51.00                            46.20

American Aid FY2000                                 YER 1,400.00                                           8.40                             8.40

American Aid FY2002                                 US$5.00                                                5.00                             3.80

American Health Aid                                 US$0.58                                                0.58                             0.43

British Government Grant                            Pounds Sterling 1.60                                   2.90                             2.90

Islamic Development Bank                            ID 4.40                                                6.40                             5.70

Arab Fund Grant - Great Mosque                      US$0.30                                                0.30                             0.30

World Bank Grant (NGOs)                             US$0.14                                                0.14                             0.14

Japanese Grant TF 062373                            US$0.20                                                0.20                             0.20

Yemen Gov. Shibam                                   US$0.14                                                0.14                             0.14

Government Contribution                             Yem equiv. to US$10.00                                10.00                             9.80

                                      TOTAL 2/                                                            200.46                           195.11

1/ As of December 30, 2005. Slight differences in estimated actual disbursements are due to: (i) rounding of figures; (ii) fluctuations in exchange rates
between SDR and US Dollar and Euro and US Dollar; and (iii) outstanding retention monies yet to be paid to contracts (e.g. 12 month liability period).

2/ Beneficiary contributions are made directly to the subprojects and are not reflected in SFD2 accounts. Total contributions from beneficiaries amounted
to approximately YER 10.91 million, or 6% of total cost of subprojects.




                                                                        - 34 -

Annex 10: Summary of Design Parameters of 2003 Impact Evaluation Study (IES)

Introduction. The Impact Evaluation Study (IES) of the Yemen Social Fund for Development (SFD) was
carried out in 2003. The study included 97 subprojects completed by SFD between 1999 and 2002, and
2,028 households. At the same time, a new baseline survey of 101 sub-projects in the SFD pipeline and
2,029 households were carried out to provide the basis for the 2005 evaluation.

Comparators used in the study for making inferences about the SFD's impact include" baseline household
data drawn from the 1999 National Poverty Survey (NPS) for the same communities, institutional records
of the SFD and government ministries, and recall questions in the project and household surveys. Key
elements of the methodology for the study are summarized below.

Methodology. The Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Manual provides a detailed definition of the study
questions that the evaluation should address and indicators to be reported. Five main data sources were
used: household survey, facility (or project) survey; qualitative evaluation; SFD program data (MIS)); and
secondary statistical sources such as national household surveys and Ministerial registers, many of which
are available in the SFD Geographic Information System. The study draws on baseline data collected in
1999 as part of the NPS, including an expansion of the survey into areas of SFD intervention that were not
in the NPS sample ­ together with a purpose-designed ex-post project and household survey carried out in
2003 and SFD MIS registers. Where the 1999 NPS did not provide useable ex-ante data, recall questions
were applied in the survey to establish the situation before SFD intervention.

Sample Design. Two types of comparisons were used for the program's evaluation strategy: (i) a
comparison of conditions in a sample of households and communities that have already benefited from SFD
projects, with those of otherwise similar communities and households who had not yet benefited from SFD
projects; and (ii) a comparison of conditions before and after the SFD intervention in a sample of projects
and households in the program's "intervention group". This analysis forms the central axis of the IES.
Baseline data from the 1999 NPS are compared with ex-post data collected for the same households in
2003.

Sample of Completed Projects. The objective of going back in 2003 to projects implemented in
1999-2002 is to observe changes in those communities and households, compared with the situation that
existed beforehand, made possible by the existence of a baseline data set from the 1999 NPS for 117 SFD
beneficiary communities. The study universe for this part of the survey is the communities and households
that benefited from SFD investments in 1999-2002. Since the baseline data had already been generated
however, the sample for the ex-post exercise was limited to the sub-set of SFD projects for which baseline
data was available. Table 1 presents data for the total number of projects in the universe, the number of
projects for which there is baseline data at household level, and the planned distribution of the sample of
projects in the 2002/03 survey.




                                                     - 35 -

             Table 1. Universe of projects implemented in 1999-2002 and distribution
                         of the 2003 Ex-Post sample, by subproject type

                         Value of projects     No. of projects  Projects with   Planned Ex-
 Sector                  implemented by        implemented      1999 baseline   post sample in
                        SFD in 1999-2002       by SFD in        data (NPS)      2003 survey
                               (US$)           1999-2002
 Education                        35,569,704         688              70              30
 Water                            13,400,783         225              24              24
 Health                            7,219,751         143              23              23
 Roads                             1,692.121          16              0               13
 Micro Finance                       656,892          16              0               11
 Total                            66,869,853        1,283            117              101
 Source: Impact Evaluation Study, 2003.



Given the small number of projects for which baseline data was available, the 2003 survey included the
whole set of 24 water and 23 health projects for which baseline data was available. A sub-sample was
taken of the 30 of the 70 education projects, using systematic sampling with an equal probability of
selection for each project, and based on ­ first a rural/urban grouping and within each group, a
geographical ordering of the projects. All 13 completed roads projects and 11 established micro finance
projects were selected; no baseline data exist in neither of these two cases.

Sample of pipeline projects. The second sub-universe of the 2003 survey is the set of projects and
communities that will receive SFD support in the future, but where the services are not yet being delivered.
There are two points of comparison for the data gathered in these 100 projects and communities. The main
purpose of these observations is to provide new baseline data that will be updated in the next impact
evaluation survey planned in 2005. However, immediately, they also provide a second comparison set for
the "ex-post" part of the sample, that is, in addition to the comparison with the baseline data for the ex-post
that were collected in 1999.

The projects were stratified by sector for the purpose of sample selection.. Within each stratum, these
projects were selected using systematic random sampling, based on a geographically ordered list of
projects, with an equal probability of selection for each project in the project pipeline. Table 2 presents
data for the total number of projects in the universe.


       Table 2: Universe of projects in pipeline (approved, but not completed) at
       December 2002, by subproject type and distribution of the pipeline sample
       Sector                Value of projects     Number of      Distribution of
                                    (US$)          projects       "pipeline" sample
       Education                     65,200,089         711                 30
       Water                         19,158,567         303                 20
       Health                         9,082,582         133                 20
       Roads                          9,592,745         86                  15
       Micro-Finance                  3,233,609         21                  15
       Total (all types)          127,374,396          1,537               100
     Source: Impact Evaluation Study, 2003

Household Sample. For the ex-post and pipeline samples, a sample of 20 households was drawn from
within the area of influence of each project.



                                                         - 36 -

(i)     Ex-post sample. To ensure comparability within the 1999 data, the ex-post sample of households
for education, heath and water projects were taken from the same censal segments sampled in the 1999
NPS. For micro finance projects, the household sample was selected from a list of all present borrowers of
the program. The list was ordered systematically (either alphabetically or by geographical location of the
borrower)

(ii)    Pipeline Sample. To ensure that the observed households are all potential beneficiaries form the
SFD investment, the sample of households was selected on the basis of the Central Statistics Office (CSO)
cartography for the censal segment where the project is (or will be) physically located.

Household Selection Procedure. The procedure for selecting households for education, health, water and
roads projects was the same used by the 1999 NPS survey:

1.      The starting point is established by drawing a random number between 0 and 1 and multiplying
        it by the number of dwellings in the segment.
2.      The sample interval, x, is equal to the number of dwellings in the updated segment divided by 20.
3.      The sample dwellings are the dwellings selected as the starting point and then every xth dwelling.
        If x is not a whole number the selected dwelling is that which is nearest to x.
4.      The sampled dwellings were identified (highlighted) on listing sheets by project area. Sketches
        were provided to the field teams in order to help identifying the location of sampled dwellings.
5.      The selected sample of households included all households that live in the sampled dwellings.
6.      There was no substitution of empty dwellings or of households that refuse to be interviewed.
        Households that were absent from the dwelling were revisited at least twice before being registered
        as absent.

The selection procedure for micro finance projects was based on a list of the names and addresses of all the
active borrowers of the project (people with loans, currently outstanding). The list was ordered
geographically and the sample interval equal to the number of borrowers, divided by 20.

Qualitative survey sample. The qualitative survey covers a sub-set of the projects in the project and
household survey. Table 3 summarizes the qualitative sample. The sample for the five major sectors was
divided equally between urban and rural projects. The others were selected from the full list of completed
projects in the quantitative project sample, with equal probability of selection for each project.




                                                    - 37 -

                 Table 3: Qualitative sample for 2003 survey

                     Sector               Urban      Rural     Total
         Education                          2          2         4
         Water                              2          2         4
         Health                             2          2         4
         Roads                              2          2         4
         Micro finance                      2          2         4
         Environment                                             3
         Special needs                                           3
         Organizational Strengthening                            3
         Training                                                3
                                 Total:                         32
        Source: Impact Evaluation Study, 2003.


The qualitative study was carried out in each community shortly after the quantitative field team had
completed its work. Table 4 summarizes all the components of the sample for the 2003 study.


 Table 4. Summary of sample components for 2003 Impact Evaluation
                                        Ex-Post                   New Baseline
 Sector                  Project     Households      Qualitative  Project      Households
                         survey                                   Survey
 Education                  30            600             4            30          600
 Water                      24            480             4            25          500
 Health                     23            460             4            25          400
 Roads                      13            260             4            20          400
 Micro Finance              11            220             4
 Environment                                              3
 Special needs                                            3
 Organizational                                           3
 Strengthening
 Training                                                 3
                 Total:     101          2,020            32          100          2.000
 Source: Impact Evaluation Study, 2003.

Evaluation Instruments. Project types that were covered by the quantitative survey work included:
education, health, water, roads, and microfinance. Qualitative studies were carried out of a sub-sample of
the surveyed projects, including SFD interventions in the environment, special needs, organizational
strengthening and training projects which absorbed a relatively small proportion of SFD investments and
therefore did not merit quantitative treatments. The study questions covered the following broad areas:
SFD's operational efficiency, cost efficiency, targeting, consultation and participation (including impacts on
social capital); service production and sustainability of SFD investments, and household-level impacts for
development indicators such as educational enrollment and effective access to health are facilities.




                                                     - 38 -

- 39 -

