Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3353-YEM
Project Agreement
(Second Social Fund for Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 9, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3353-YEM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 2000, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and the SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT (SFD).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Yemen (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty 
six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR56,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that SFD agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and SFD, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to SFD on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS SFD, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SFD declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices and in 
accordance with Law No. 10 of 1997, the Operations Manual and the Micro-finance 
Operations Manual, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and SFD shall otherwise agree, SFD shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SFD shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the SFD shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
SFD, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with SFD on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. SFD shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SFD shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SFD shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
SFD shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SFD of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the SFD
Section 3.01. SFD shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices and in 
accordance with Law No. 10 of 1997, the Operations Manual and the Micro-finance 
Operations Manual, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
Page  3
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SFD shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices and in accordance with Law No. 10 of 1997, the 
Operations Manual and the Micro-finance Operations Manual.
Section 3.03 SFD shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SFD shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of 
the Project.
(b)
SFD shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of 
its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as 
so audited and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and a report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, SFD shall carry out a time-bound Action Plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to 
enable SFD, not later than December 31, 2000, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
Page  4
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the Action Plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, SFD shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SFD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify SFD of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  uch notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the SFD:
30 Al Quds Road
P.O. Box 15485
Sana’a
Republic of Yemen
Facsimile:
Page  5
967.1.243.173
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SFD, or by SFD 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Managing 
Director shall designate in writing, and the Managing Director shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Abdulkarim Al-Arhabi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  6
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less 
than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$30,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Goods and Small Works with Community Participation
Goods and works required under Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, including simplified bidding 
and contract documents with basic description and specifications of the required goods 
and small works, posting of Invitations to Bid in a public place within the community, 
transparent procedures for accepting sealed bids, public bid opening, bid evaluation, 
and contract award to the bidder with the lowest price who can provide the requisite 
skills, equipment and other resources to complete the contract satisfactorily. The 
contracts for goods and small works awarded on this basis shall be for fixed prices or 
lump sums, with estimated contract values of less than $100,000 equivalent, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  7
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for under Part C of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services under the Project which are estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
Page  8
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Parts A and B of the Project
SFD shall (a) ensure that Sub-grants under Parts A and B(i) of the Project and 
Sub-loans under Part B(ii) of the Project, shall be made in accordance with the 
requirements and other details set forth in the Operations Manual and the 
Micro-finance Operations Manual; and (b) review with the Association, at such 
intervals as the Association or SFD shall request, the Operations Manual and the 
Micro-finance Operations Manual, and, based on such reviews, update the same as may be 
agreed between the Association and SFD.
B.
Mid-term Review
SFD shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
