Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3353-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Social Fund for Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 9, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3353-YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 2000, between the REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Social Fund for Development (SFD) 
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) 
available to SFD, as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and SFD 
(the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
Page  2
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine.”; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for Sub-loans, Sub-grants, 
goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“Micro-finance Operations Manual” means the manual, dated December 26, 
1999, specifying SFD’s managerial, financial and administrative policies and 
procedures for the execution of the micro-finance and income generating activities, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
(d)
“Operations Manual” means the manual, dated March 22, 1997, specifying 
SFD’s managerial, financial, administrative, engineering and environmental policies 
and procedures for the execution of the Project and the eligibility criteria for 
selection of Sub-projects, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Association;
(e)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and SFD 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(g)
“SFD” means the Social Fund for Development, established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 10 of 1997 as the same may be amended from time to time;
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(i)
“Sub-grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by SFD, out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, to finance a Sub-project (as this term is hereinafter defined) 
under Parts A and B (i) of the Project;
(j)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by SFD out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, through a commercial bank, a financial institution or any 
other eligible intermediaries as defined in the Micro-finance Operations Manual, to 
finance a Sub-project (as this term is hereinafter defined) under Part B (ii) of the 
Project;
(k)
“Sub-project” means a specific project to be carried out under Part A or 
Part B of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant or a Sub-loan, as the case 
may be;
Page  3
(l)
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the SFD pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
(m)
“Action Plan” means the action plan referred to in Section 4.02 of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty six million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR56,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for (a) amounts paid 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by SFD on account of 
withdrawals made under Sub-grants under Parts A and B (i) of the Project and Sub-loans 
under Part B (ii) of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for Sub-projects in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account 
is requested; and (b) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part C of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2010 and ending April 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2020 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
Page  4
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B)
requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower t
hat the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of SFD is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause SFD to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of SFD therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SFD to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to SFD, on a 
grant basis, under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SFD, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by SFD 
pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) take all measures necessary on its part to 
enable SFD to carry out SFD’s obligations referred to under Section 2.03 (b) of, and 
paragraph B of Schedule 2 to, the Project Agreement; and (b) except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, undertake not to amend the Operations Manual in any manner so 
as to reduce the operational autonomy of SFD.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SFD shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that SFD will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Page  6
Agreement.
(c)
Law No. 10 of 1997 of the Borrower, the Operations Manual of SFD or the 
Micro-finance Operations Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SFD to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SFD or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and SFD.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SFD, 
and is legally binding upon SFD in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and SFD and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SFD in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided for in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development P.O. BOX 175
Sana’a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
CENPLAN
2266
967.1.250.665
Sana’a
CENPLAN YE
Page  7
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Mohammed Abdullah Al-Batani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-grants under
   41,050,000
100% of amounts
Parts A and B (i)
disbursed by SFD
of the Project
(2)
Sub-loans under
    2,990,000
100% of amounts
Part B (ii) of the Project
disbursed by SFD
(3)
Goods under
    1,500,000
100% of foreign
Part C of the
expenditures,
Project
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory cost);
and 95% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
Page  8
(4)
Consultants’
    2,240,000
100%
services and
training under
Part C of the
Project
(5)
Incremental
    4,480,000
95%
Operating Costs
(6)
Unallocated
    3,740,000
TOTAL
   56,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred by SFD on account of the implementation of the Project, management and 
monitoring, including office rental, office supplies, office equipment, vehicles 
maintenance, utilities, communications expenses, local contractual staff salaries, 
social benefits, travel and other allowances.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent; (b) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) services of individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (d) payments made by 
SFD on account of Sub-grants, each not exceeding $300,000; (e) payments made by SFD on 
account of Sub-loans, each not exceeding $300,000; and (f) Incremental Operating 
Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
Page  9
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $7,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR8,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  10
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expen
ditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the range of services and economic 
opportunities available to the poorer segments of the population through the carrying 
Page  11
out of community development, micro-finance and capacity building programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community Development
Provision of Sub-grants for the carrying out, by regional authorities, 
non-governmental organizations and local communities, of Sub-projects consisting of 
labor- intensive works and the delivery of community services.
Part B:
Income Generation and Micro-finance Schemes
Provision of: (i) Sub-grants to any eligible intermediaries as defined under the 
Micro-finance Operations Manual to build up the institutional capacity of such 
intermediaries to manage and deliver financial services; and (ii) Sub-loans  to such 
intermediaries for carrying out income-generating and micro-finance Sub-projects.
Part C:
Capacity Building
1.
Carrying out, through the provision of goods, training and consultants’ 
services, Sub-projects to develop the institutional and monitoring capacity of 
non-governmental organizations and community-based organizations and improve their 
effectiveness in identifying and implementing Sub-projects.
2.
Carrying out, through the provision of goods, training and consultants’ 
services, a program to strengthen the institutional capacity of SFD and its capacity 
to monitor and evaluate the implementation of Sub-projects.
3.
Carrying out, through the provision of goods, training and consultants’ 
services, Sub-projects to enhance capacity, at the national level, to carry out social 
protection programs and formulate social policies.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
