Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY
December 17,  2010 
 
His Excellency 
Mr. 
Rogério Schumann Rosso 
Governor of the Federal District 
Government of Federal District 
Anexo do Palácio Buriti – 11º floor 
70075-900 Brasília, DF 
BRAZIL 
Fax: (55-61) 3352-0390  
 
Re: Brazil: Brasilia Environmentally Sustainable Project (
Programa 
Brasília Sustentável) 
LN-7326-BR  Second Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency: 
 
We refer to the Loan Agreement entered into between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Federal District (the Borrower) dated 
February 23, 2006, as amended and restated on May 21, 2007 for the above-captioned Project 
(the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement).  Please note that capitalized terms used in this 
letter (Amendment Letter) and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed to them in the 
Amended Loan Agreement. 
 
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request dated May 14, 2010, as 
confirmed by the Guarantor on July 9, 2010, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Amended and 
Restated Loan Agreement in order to:  (a) facilitate the transfer of Project implementation 
responsibilities to a new agency; (b) modify some of the activities under Part(s) A, C and D  of 
the Project; (c) reallocate the loan proceeds among the Categories and modify the disbursement 
percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed; and (d) add a new procurement method under 
the Project.  Consequently, the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement is hereby amended as 
follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1.01 (c) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
“Co-Executing Agencies” means collectively SLU, IBRAM, SEDUMA and 
NOVACAP through SO (the latter five as hereinafter defined);” 
 
2. 
The definition of “IBAMA” included in Section 1.01 (g) is hereby deleted.  
 
3. 
The word “and” at the end of Section 1.01 (s) is deleted and replaced by a semi-colon 
“(;)”. 
 
4. 
The period “(.)” at the end of Section 1.01 (t) is deleted and replaced by a semi-colon 
“(;)”. 
Page  2
2
5. 
The following new definitions are included in Section 1.01 to read as follows: 
 
“(u) “ADASA” 
means 
Agência Reguladora de Águas, Energia e Saneamento 
Básico
 
do Distrito Federal,
 the Borrower’s Water, Energy and Basic Sanitation Agency established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 3365 of July 16, 2004 as amended by the Borrower’s Law No. 
4285, of December 26, 2008;  
 
(v) 
“IBRAM” means  
Instituto do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Hídricos do 
Distrito Federal – Brasília Ambiental
,
the Borrower
’s Institute for Environmental and Water 
Resources Affairs, established pursuant to the Borrower’s  Law No. 3984 of May 28, 2007; and 
 
(w)  
“Lake 
Paranoá
”
means one of the main water bodies located in the 
Borrower’s territory. 
 
6. 
Section 3.01 is amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
“Section 3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause ADASA to 
carry out the Project with the assistance of CAESB and the Co-Executing Agencies, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, 
administrative, social, environmental, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.”. 
 
8. 
Section 3.03 (a) is amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
“(a) 
delegate to ADASA, through a decree issued by the Borrower’s Governor, 
the responsibility to carry out the Project on the Borrower’s behalf, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank;”. 
 
9. 
Section 3.05 (a) is amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
“(a) 
operate and maintain, until completion of the Project, a unit within 
ADASA (the PMU) with staff, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
 the ability to provide training to procurement staff and controllers of SO, 
CAESB, NOVACAP and SEDUMA and the ability to adapt the procurement module of 
SIG (
Sistema de Informações Gerenciais
);”. 
 
10. 
Sections 4.01 (a) and (b) are amended to read in their entirety as follows: 
 
“Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ADASA and CAESB to maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause ADASA to: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
Page  3
3
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.”. 
 
11. 
The address of “SEDUMA” included in Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the address 
for “ADASA” to read as follows: 
 
“ADASA – 
Agência Reguladora de Águas, Energia e e Saneamento Básico
 
do 
Distrito Federal
 
Setor Ferroviário - Parque Ferroviário de Brasília - Estação Rodoferroviária, 
Sobreloja - Ala Norte -  
CEP: 70631-900 Brasília –DF -  Brazil” 
 
12. 
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its 
entirety as follows: 
 
“Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works: 
 
(a) under the Project 
 
(except for Part C.1) 
42,467,000.00 
100% 
 
(2) Consultants’ services 
13,681,892.50 
100% 
`
(3) Goods 
1,350,000.00 
100% 
 
(4)  Fee  
144,107.50 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
(5) Unallocated 
0 
 
TOTAL 57,643,000”
Page  4
4
13. 
Part A of Schedule 2 is amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
“Part A
:
Policy and Institutional Development
1. 
Provide technical assistance to ADASA and SEDUMA and build its capacity to: 
(i) develop updated management technical tools; and (ii) assess and improve its 
institutional arrangements and knowledge capacity. 
 
2. 
Develop studies and management tools and provide technical support to 
SEDUMA and IBRAM in the area of environment and water resource management to 
enable these agencies to address key metropolitan and local urban challenges.    
 
3. 
Provide technical assistance to SLU, SEDUMA and ADASA to improve their 
solid waste management policies and increase their institutional knowledge capacity.  
 
4. 
Provide technical assistance to CAESB: (i) to improve the management and 
protection of water sources; (ii) to identify and remediate environmental impacts caused 
by the construction of sewerage systems in 
the Borrower’s territory; and (iii) to finalize 
its environmental certification system.”. 
 
14. 
Part C of Schedule 2 is amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
“Part C
:
Water Resources Protection
1. 
Abate the pollution of the 
Vicente Pires
 stream by improving sanitation services 
in neighboring low-income communities and carrying out the required civil works to that 
effect.    
 
2. 
Determine a course of action for the future closure of the 
Jóquei Clube
 solid 
waste landfill based on the various alternatives proposed in technical designs, carry out 
civil works according to approved designs, and carry out the environmental recuperation 
of about one third (
1
/3rd) of the 
Jóquei Clube 
area
 
that is not occupied by any economic 
activity, including,
 inter alia, 
cleaning and planting such area. 
 
3. 
Initiate the procurement process for the construction of a solid waste sanitary 
landfill according to technical designs developed and approved under the Project.   
 
4. 
Purchase equipment for the removal of algae from the 
Lake Paranoá
.
”
15. 
Part D.2 of Schedule 2 is amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
Part D
:
Project Management
“2. 
Provide technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of 
ADASA.”  
 
Page  5
5
16. 
The first paragraph of Section II B 1. of Schedule 4 is amended by adding a new 
procurement method known as 
“
pregão eletrônico
”
to read as follows: 
 
“1. 
National Competitive Bidding
:
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 or more but 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost $500,000 or more but less 
than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding, including 
pregão eletrônico
 as 
set forth in the Guarantor’s Law 
No. 10520 of July 17, 2002 and the
 
following additional provisions, using bidding documents, 
satisfactory to the Bank, in a standardized form for the Project: ” 
 
All other provisions of the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, except as amended 
herein, shall remain in full force and effect. 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating all the 
originals of this Amendment Letter in the space provided below, and return one fully signed 
original to us. This Amendment Letter shall become effective upon received by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter. 
 
Please note that it is the Bank’s policy to make publicly available this Amendment Letter 
and any information related thereto, after this Amendment Letter has become effective and the 
Borrower has given its consent to such disclosure. The Borrower, by countersigning this 
Amendment Letter, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By:  /s/ Makhtar Diop 
Director 
Brazil Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
AGREED: 
FEDERAL DISTRICT 
 
By:   
/s/ Rogério S. Rosso 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Name:  _ Rogério S. Rosso 
 
Title: Governor 
 
Date:    December 28, 2010 
 
CC.:   
Minister Guido Mantega, Minister of Finance, Fax: (55-61) 3412-1740
 
Mr. Carlos Augusto Vidotto, Secretary of International Affairs, SEAIN/MP 
–
Fax: 2020-5047 
 
Mr. Benvindo Belluco, Deputy Secretary, SEAIN/MP – Fax: 2020-5006
 
