                       Document of
                    The World Bank


                                             Report No: 60256-BR




                 RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                          ON A


           PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                         OF


    BRASILIA ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE PROJECT
                    (LOAN 7326-BR)




              APPROVED ON AUGUST 25, 2005


                         TO THE

              FEDERAL DISTRICT OF BRASILIA


WITH A GUARANTEE FROM THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL


                      March 30, 2011
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADASA    Water, Energy and Sanitation Regulatory Agency of the Federal District
GDF      Federal District Government
PDO      Project Development Objective
SEDUMA   Secretariat of Urban Development and Environment of the Federal District




            Regional Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                   Country Director:      Makhtar Diop
           Sector Manager / Director:     Guang Zhe Chen / Laura Tuck
                  Task Team Leader:       Sameh Naguib Wahba
       BRAZIL -- BRASILIA ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE PROJECT
                                 P089440
                               LOAN 7326-BR

                                  Restructuring Paper

1.    The closing date for Brazil, Brasilia Environmentally Sustainable Project, Loan
7326-BR, P089440 will be extended for a nine months period from March 31, 2011 until
December 31, 2011. This will be the first extension of the project's closing date.

2.       Project background and implementation progress. The Project Development
Objective (PDO) is to ensure the supply of quality water resources to meet the demands
of the Borrower's metropolitan area by improving environmental planning and
management activities. One of the Project activities is to improve an informal area called
Vila Estrutural (home to an estimated 40,000 low-income persons) through upgrading of
urban infrastructure, the partial environmental recuperation of an unsanitary landfill, and
construction of housing and community facilities. Approximately 900 households and
commercial properties in Vila Estrutural needed to be resettled due to their location in
environmentally-restricted areas or to provide the right-of-way required for the improved
infrastructure and new houses. This included the resettlement of about 70 families from
Vila Estrutural to a rural area called Monjolo. The Project also supports the improvement
of sanitation services in Vicente Pires neighborhood, and several technical assistance
activities related to environmental and urban development policies.

3.       The Project was approved by the Board on August 25, 2005 in the amount of
US$57.643 million, with a closing date of March 31, 2011. Following the signing of the
Loan Agreement on February 23, 2006, the Project became effective on May 16, 2006.
Project implementation was slow throughout 2006 because of the elections in the Federal
District Government (GDF). In addition, as a result of a major institutional restructuring
carried out by the newly elected Government, the Borrower requested a first amendment
of the Loan Agreement to make project implementation arrangements consistent with its
institutional reorganization. The amended and restated Loan Agreement was signed on
May 21, 2007 and a new effectiveness letter was sent on July 27, 2007. Once the legal
and institutional aspects were resolved, project implementation accelerated substantially.

4.      However, as of August 2008, the Bank started receiving complaints regarding the
resettlement activities undertaken by the GDF, especially related to Monjolo. Despite
multiple action plans prepared by and agreed with the GDF to resolve implementation
issues, significant delays of well over 12 months in completing resettlement activities in
Monjolo persisted. As a result of these delays and a unilateral change in Project
implementation responsibilities from the Secretariat of Urban Development and
Environment (SEDUMA) to the Water, Sanitation and Energy Regulatory Agency
(ADASA), the Bank suspended disbursement of the Loan proceeds as of May 7, 2010.

5.     By October 2010, the Borrower had fully met one of the two conditions for lifting
the suspension of disbursements, related to ADASA's capacity to implement the Project,
and had partially met the second condition, related to the completion of the construction
of houses under Phases I and II of Monjolo and their delivery to the affected families as
per the revised Resettlement Action Plan for Monjolo. Only the construction of houses
under Phase I of Monjolo has been completed and delivered to the affected families. The
environmental license for Phase II houses (the main reason for the delayed start of house
construction) was also issued in July 2010, thus allowing the bid process to be launched.
To ensure the Borrower's ability to implement the Project including resettlement
activities remains unaffected, the suspension of disbursements was partially lifted as of
October 14, 2010. Disbursement for the goods and consultant service expenditure
categories was restored while the suspension was maintained for the works category until
Phase II houses in Monjolo have been built and delivered to the families.

6.       Disbursements today stand at US$ 37.06 million (64.29% of the Loan amount).
Construction of Phase II houses in Monjolo started in February 2011; their completion
and delivery to the families is now expected in May 2011. The main technical assistance
activities for policy strengthening are under way. In Vila Estrutural, 267 families were
resettled to their new houses within the Vila (different from the 31 families that have
received houses in Monjolo), and 317 additional houses are almost completed. The
paving and drainage system in Vila Estrutural is 95% completed; the sewage system is
97% completed, and the water system is 82% completed. The GDF has also completed
two community centers and two social assistance centers, which are operational.

7.      Proposed extension. The proposed extension is necessary to allow the GDF to
finalize the main project activities, especially resettlement activities to ensure safeguards
compliance, and achieve the expected PDO results. The nine-month extension would
allow the GDF to: (a) complete and deliver to the affected families the houses of Phase II
in Monjolo, as well as the water supply system and the rehabilitation of a small access
bridge; (b) complete the construction of remaining resettlement houses in Vila Estrutural,
in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan, and subsequently conclude remaining
infrastructure improvement activities in Vila Estrutural, including paving, drainage, water
and sewage systems, and public facilities; (c) improve living conditions for scavengers in
the Joquei landfill, including the design of a recycling program for public buildings,
construction of a recycling facility with equipment purchase and capacity building; (d)
continue preparation of key technical studies in support of policymaking; (e) purchase
lake cleaning equipment to improve water quality, which is key to achieve the PDO; and
(f) conclude the sewage system for Vicente Pires, another key activity to reach the PDO.
The extension of the closing date would also facilitate for the Bank team to continue
carrying out project supervision and implementation support to the GDF for the
remaining activities.

8.      An action plan has been agreed with the GDF and has been reconfirmed during
the supervision mission carried out during the period March 2-10, 2011. The project
team has assessed the feasibility of the action plan and, with some adjustments, found it
overall satisfactory. Completion of the remaining activities that are currently underway
under the action plan will make it possible for the project to achieve its development
objective        and      attain        the       desired       development        result.
