                  Document of
               The World Bank


                                      Report No: 58442-BR




            RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                     ON A

       PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                     OF
BRASILIA ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE PROJECT

               (LOAN 7326-BR)
           APPROVED ON JULY 6, 2005


                    TO THE

            THE FEDERAL DISTRICT

                December 8, 2010
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADASA    Water, Energy and Sanitation Regulatory Agency of the Federal District
BRL      Brazilian Reais
CAESB    Water and Sanitation Company of the Federal District
GDF      Federal District Government
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISA-F    Social Environmental Indicator for slums
PDO      Project Development Objective
SEDUMA   Secretariat of Urban Development and Environment of the Federal District
SLU      Urban Cleaning Service of the Federal District
TCDF     Audit Agency (Tribunal de Contas) of the Federal District




            Regional Vice President:        Pamela Cox
                   Country Director:        Makhtar Diop
           Sector Manager / Director:       Guang Zhe Chen/ Laura Tuck
                  Task Team Leader:         Sameh Naguib Wahba



                                        2
                                 BRAZIL
              BRASILIA ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE PROJECT
                                 P089440
                                CONTENTS

                                                                                                                    Page
A. SUMMARY................................................................................................................ 4
B. PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 4
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY........................................................................................ 5
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING .................................... 6




                                                             3
          BRASILIA ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE PROJECT

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

SUMMARY
This Restructuring Paper responds to the request of the Federal District (the Borrower) to
amend the Loan Agreement for the Brasilia Environmentally Sustainable Project (7326-
BR) to encompass the following proposed changes: (i) transfer of the project
implementation responsibility to a new agency; (ii) redefinition of the Project description
to reflect the removal of some activities and reduction in the scope of Part C of the
Project; (iii) modification of the results indicators to reflect the changed activities; (iv)
change in the reallocation of loan proceeds between categories and the percentage of
eligible expenditures to be financed; (v) addition of Pregão Eletronico to the applicable
procurement methods; and (vi) extension of the implementation schedule for selected
counterpart-funded activities, which calls for an extension of the schedule for preparation
of the Project's Implementation Completion Report (ICR). These proposed changes
would allow the Federal District to meet the Project Development Objective (PDO)
despite recent changes to the local government leadership and implementation
challenges.


PROJECT STATUS
The Project supports several activities including the upgrading of urban infrastructure, the
remediation of an unsanitary landfill, and the construction of housing and community
facilities in an area known as Vila Estrutural, home to 40,000 people, the improvement of
the sanitation services in the municipalities of Aguas Lindas and Vicente Pires, as well as
several technical assistance activities related to environmental and urban development
policies. These activities contribute to the PDO of ensuring the supply of quality water
resources to meet the demands of the Borrower's metropolitan area, as all activities
contribute to the environmental improvement of main water sources.

The Project was approved by the Board on July 5, 2005 in the amount of US$57.643
million. Following the signing of the Loan Agreement on February 23, 2006, the Project
became effective on May 16, 2006. Project implementation was slow during 2006
because of elections in the Federal District Government (GDF). Moreover, as a result of
the elections, a major institutional restructuring was carried out by the new Government.
Therefore, the Borrower asked for a first amendment of the loan agreement to make the
project implementation arrangement consistent with its institutional reorganization. The
amended and restated loan agreement was signed on May 21, 2007 and a new
effectiveness letter was sent on July 27, 2007.

Once the legal and institutional aspects were resolved, project implementation
accelerated substantially. Under the Project, approximately 900 households and
commercial properties needed to be resettled due to their location in environmentally-
                                             4
restricted areas or to provide a right of way required for the new infrastructure and
houses. Because of this requirement, close attention was paid during preparation to the
Resettlement Action Plan in accordance with the Bank's policy, and based on active
community consultations.

However, as of August 2008, the Bank started receiving complaints regarding the
resettlement activities undertaken by the GDF, especially with regards to the resettlement
of about 70 families from Vila Estrutural to a rural area called Monjolo. Coinciding with
this period of implementation difficulties, a period of political uncertainty and transition
started in November 2009 following the corruption charges against the GDF Governor
and some members of the government leadership. Since then, three changes have taken
place in the leadership of the GDF and of the main implementing agency--the Secretariat
of Urban Development and Environment (SEDUMA), which contributed to further
Project implementation delays, particularly the resolution of pending resettlement issues.
In March 2010, the Bank was informed that the Borrower had unilaterally changed the
Project implementing agency from SEDUMA to ADASA--the Water, Energy and
Sanitation Regulatory Agency. The change of implementing agency created legal
ambiguity in implementation, especially fiduciary responsibilities, and thus requires
Project restructuring and an amendment to the loan agreement.

After multiple action plans had been prepared by and agreed with the Borrower to resolve
implementation issues, in view of the continuing delays for well over 12 months in
completing the resettlement houses in Monjolo and given the unilateral change in Project
implementation responsibilities, the Bank suspended disbursements as of May 7, 2010.
To allow for an orderly transition, activities with signed contracts prior to the suspension
date were exempted for a 60 day period following the suspension date. Suspension would
be lifted when the construction of houses in Monjolo (in two phases) and the assessment
of ADASA's capacity to implement the Project have been completed and found
satisfactory to the Bank. Supervision of ongoing counterpart-funded and eligible loan-
funded activities continues with close monitoring of the implementation of resettlement
activities.

To date, the Borrower has fully met one of the two conditions for lifting the suspension
of disbursements, related to the change in the implementing agency, and has partially met
the second condition, related to the construction of resettlement houses in Monjolo.
Specifically, the Bank has determined that ADASA has the technical capacity to carry out
the Project in a satisfactory manner. The Borrower has also obtained the endorsement of
the Federal Government (COFIEX recommendation No. 586 dated June 9, 2010) to its
formal request to the Bank to formally restructure the Project, which included, inter alia,
replacing SEDUMA with ADASA. As such, the Bank has determined that the Borrower
has fully met this condition.

With respect to the second condition for lifting the suspension of disbursements, namely
the completion of the construction of houses under Phases I and II of Monjolo and their
delivery to the affected families as per the revised Resettlement Action Plan for Monjolo,
the Borrower has only partially met this condition. The construction of houses under
Phase I of Monjolo has been completed and the houses have been delivered to the
affected families. However, Phase II houses have not yet been completed, although the
                                             5
necessary actions to initiate their construction have been taken. Indeed, the necessary
environmental license has been issued. The GDF has formally concluded the contract
cancelation by mutual consent with the financially troubled company that had been
awarded the construction contract for Phase I and II houses but which faced significant
delays in the conclusion of Phase I houses. The GDF also secured BRL 2 million in own
funds to finance the construction of Phase II houses. The bidding process for the
construction of Phase II houses is almost complete and contract signature with the
winning bidder is expected by mid-December.

Since the suspension of disbursements came into effect, the loan proceeds available in the
Designated Account have nearly dried out. In turn, this is starting to affect the Borrower's
ability to continue the Project implementation including most importantly supervision of
the construction and delivery of Phase II houses in Monjolo. As such, and based on the
fact that the Borrower has fully met one of the conditions and partially met the second
condition to lift the suspension of disbursements, the Bank has undertaken to partially lift
the suspension of disbursements as of October 14, 2010. Disbursement for the goods and
consultancies expenditure categories is restored while the suspension of disbursements is
maintained for the works category until Phase II houses in Monjolo have been built and
delivered to the affected families.



PROPOSED CHANGES

·   Institutional arrangements: The Borrower requests changing the implementing agency
    from SEDUMA to ADASA. This is justified by the fact that the majority of activities
    remaining are related to water, wastewater and solid waste, all of which are under
    ADASA's regulatory oversight. Furthermore, as an agency, it is largely immune to
    the changes to the Federal District's leadership that are expected to occur in the
    current transition period. Finally, ADASA is not new to the Project as it was the
    original implementing agency for the Project prior to the May 21, 2007, amendment
    that transferred the function to SEDUMA.

·   Components: The counterpart-funded works in Aguas Lindas proved very difficult to
    coordinate due to the fact that Aguas Lindas Municipality is administratively under
    the State of Goias, and thus falls outside of the Borrower's jurisdiction. Specifically,
    land acquisition for the construction of the pumping stations and the waste water
    treatment plant cannot be reasonably completed within the timeframe of the project,
    and the Borrower's attempts to engage with the State and Municipal counterparts to
    resolve the delays were not successful. As such, the proposal includes the removal of
    Part C.1: Abate the pollution of the Rocinha, Lajinha and Coqueiros rivers by
    improving sanitation services in Aguas Lindas de Goias.

    Additional changes to Part C include the reduction of the scope of activities under
    Parts C.3 and C.4. Specifically, Part C.3 would be revised to include the closure and
    environmental recuperation of only one-third of the existing Joquei Clube solid waste
    landfill, rather than its complete closure as initially planned. There are two reasons

                                             6
for this change. First, the final engineering designs were recently finalized, and the
estimated cost for the works is more than three times the originally estimated amount.
Second, the drop in the exchange rate over the life of the Project (from BRL2.3 to
BRL1.7 for USD1) has had an effect on reducing the scope of activities that could be
funded with loan funds, which in turn had an impact on the solid waste component
due to its delay.

In effect, the procurement process for the concession of the new sanitary landfill has
encountered significant delays, initially due to strong resistance from special interest
groups, then interruption of the procurement process due to technical questioning
from the TCDF, and more recently the situation of the political leadership transition.
This inevitably means that the closure of the landfill could not be completed by the
March 31, 2011, closing date of the Project. In regard to the Joquei Clube, two-thirds
of the area has been discontinued; one-third is totally unused and the other third is
being used for construction material residues. As such, only one-third of the total area
continues to be operational for domestic and other waste. The proposed plan is to
launch the environmental recuperation by reclaiming the portion of the landfill that is
fully unutilized, with a plan to improve the efficiency of the portion that is
operational to accommodate the additional lifespan and to the extent possible
construction residues (thus liberating the second one-third of the area for
environmental recuperation). Finally, it is anticipated that the new landfill concession
could be awarded once the political transition period has ended. Consequently, Part
C.4, which initially called for the new landfill to be operational, would be redefined
as launching the procurement process for the construction of the new landfill.

Part C.5 which called for the disinfection of waste water sludge would be removed
from the project as the Borrower's water and sanitation company, CAESB, identified
other sources of financing for this item but has not been able to implement it yet.
Instead, the purchase of equipment for the removal of algae from the Paranoa Lake
would be included in the scope of the Project, as it is an important activity that would
contribute to the improvement of the water quality of this important water body in
line with the Project Development Objective.

Minor text changes have been requested by the Borrower to better reflect the real
consultancy activities that are under way in Part A of the project, such as:
(i) Part A.1, include capacity building activities for ADASA and remove item (i)
         related to the improvement of the Borrower's territory development and land
         management policies;
(ii) Part A.2, include the development of management tools to SEDUMA and replace
         IBAMA (the National Environmental Institute) by IBRAM (the Borrower's
         Environmental Institute);
(iii)Part A.3, include also SEDUMA and ADASA as beneficiaries of technical
         assistance activities;
(iv) Part A.4, delete item (i) that would establish a sanitation company to adjacent
         areas of the Borrower's territory; and include two new activities (i) technical
         assistance to improve the management and protection of water sources; and
         (ii) identify and remediate environmental impacts caused by the construction
         of sewerage systems in the Borrower's territory.
                                         7
·   Results/indicators: The Team proposes to modify several indicators to reflect changes to the
    scope of the Project. The following amendments are proposed to the indicators:

    (i) Water quality of the Descoberto River will no longer be measured as an Outcome
            Indicator of the PDO because of the proposed removal of the Aguas Lindas
            sanitation services from the scope of the Project;
    (ii) An end-of-project satisfaction survey will be conducted to help measure
            improvement in living conditions in Vila Estrutural as an Outcome Indicator
            of the PDO. The initial ISA-F indicator (a composite social environmental
            index with 14 different indicators) proved difficult to measure in the absence
            of census or survey data to document households' income and education, and
            the ability to document and attribute the slum upgrading program's socio-
            economic impact is limited due to the absence of control groups. In addition,
            the ISA-F was selected at the time to enable comparability across upgrading
            areas but the index was not widely adopted as initially thought. As such, sub-
            indicators from the ISA-F related to environmental conditions will be
            measured and will be supplemented by the residents' satisfaction survey;
    (iii)"Generated technical and institutional capacity contributing to the Brasilia
            metropolitan region development" will be removed as an Outcome Indicator
            of the PDO;
    (iv) The Intermediate Outcomes and Intermediate Outcome Indicators will be revised
            as detailed in Annex 1 to reflect the abovementioned changes in the activities
            financed under the Project.

·    Financing: The Borrower has requested a reallocation of loan funds among
     categories and a change in the percentage of expenditures to be financed. The table
     below presents the current and proposed reallocation of loan funds among categories
     and the percentage of expenditures to be financed. The main proposed changes are:
     (i) a 5 percent increase in the loan amount allocated to works from US$ 40.443
     million to US$ 42.467 million; (ii) a 2.8 percent reduction in the loan amount
     allocated to consultants' services from US$13.9 million to US$ 13.682 million; and
     (iii) a 38.6 percent reduction in the loan amount allocated to goods from US$2.2
     million to US$ 1.35 million. These proposed changes, which include a reallocation
     of the unallocated loan amount, are mostly of limited amount. The only substantial
     change was the reduction in the loan amount allocated to goods, which were
     procured as part of consultancy activities. Similarly, the increase in the loan amount
     allocated to works is intended to partially compensate for the exchange rate drop
     over the life of the Project which led to a reduction in the loan amount available in
     local currency to pay for works under implementation or in procurement.

     In addition, it is proposed that the percentage of expenditures to be financed under
     both the works and goods categories be set at 100%. The first reason for this because
     the sewerage works in Vicente Pires (Part C.2 of the Project) were 100% financed
     with counterpart funds. As such, the proposal is to remove item (b) from the Works
     category and leave the category as (1) Works without any subcategory below, and
     that can be financed up to 100%. Similarly, the second reason is that the goods under
     Part C of the Project have already been procured by the Borrower. Thus, the residual
                                               8
     goods under Parts A and D of the Project could be financed at 100% as initially
     planned.

     Ultimately, the share of the counterpart financing in these activities is proposed to be
     substituted with other government financed activities related to the scope of the
     Project, namely investments in public facilities and housing in Vila Estrutural and
     housing in Monjolo, in order to balance the overall loan and counterpart funds' share
     of the Project financing.

         Category of Expenditure                      Allocation               % of Financing
        Current               Revised           Current          Revised     Current      Revised
(1) Works:               (1) Works:                             42,467,000                 100%
   (a) under Part B,                           35,943,000                     100%
   C.3 and C.4 of the
   Project*
   (b) under Part C.2                           4,500,000                      23%
   of the Project
(2) Consultants'         (2) Consultants'      13,900,000 13,681,892.         100%         100%
services                 services                                       50
(3) Goods:               (3) Goods:                              1,350,000                 100%
   (a) under Parts A                            1,200,000                     100%
   and D of the Project
   (b) under Part C of                          1,000,000                      20%
   the Project
(4) Fee                  (4) Fee                  576,430       144,107.50      **          **
(5) Unallocated          (5) Unallocated          523,570                0
TOTAL                    TOTAL                 57,643,000       57,643,000
            * Due to the changes on Part C of the project, Parts C.3 and C.4 will be replaced by
            C.2 and C.3, respectively.
            **Amount due under Section 2.04 of this Agreement

·   Procurement: The Borrower requests the inclusion of Pregão Eletronico among the
    Particular Methods of Procurement to be used in the project. This will allow for
    accelerated procurement processes, and therefore faster implementation.

·   Implementation schedule: Key activities implemented with counterpart funds will be
    completed after the closing date, including the sewage treatment plant in Vicente
    Pires. Delays in land acquisition for the construction of one of two initially planned
    pumping stations led to the redesign of the system to rely on only one pumping
    station. As such, it is proposed that the project's ICR would be completed one year
    after the closing date, rather than within the six-month deadline.



APPRAISAL SUMMARY

·   Environment: The fact that the Joquei Clube landfill will not be fully closed within
    the scope of the Project, due to the delay in concluding the concession process of the

                                                9
new landfill, will have some environmental impact on the Project for the interim
period until such activities are concluded. Accordingly, the landfill closure project
was redesigned for the interim period and introduced improvements to the operation
of Joquei Clube, which will be financed with GDF funds.




                                       10
                                                                   ANNEX 1:
                                                       Results Framework and Monitoring
                                         BRAZIL: BRASILIA ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE PROJECT


Project Development Objective (PDO):
The Project's Development Objective is to meet the growing needs of the Federal District and the Brasilia Metropolitan Region to reduce regional inequalities and ensure quality water resources,
through environmental planning and management activities, integrated with poverty reduction interventions and environmental rehabilitation in the most critical river basins.


Revised Project Development Objective:



                                         D=Dropped
                                                                                                Cumulative Target Values**
                                         C=Continue
                                  Core




       PDO Level Results                 N= New         Unit of                                                                                                   Data Source/       Responsibility for
                                         R=Revised                    Baseline          YR 3       YR 4     YR 5            YR6                Frequency
         Indicators*                                    Measure                                                                                                   Methodology         Data Collection
                                                                                       (2009)                              (2012)

Indicator One:                           R             Class        Not Class 2     0 of 3                          Class 2                 Semiannual           CAESB water         CAESB
Water quality of the Vicente                                                        monitoring                                                                   quality
Pires River improved and/or                                                         points                                                                       monitoring
maintained to Class 2                                                               consistently                                                                 system
                                                                                    at Class 2
                                                                                    as of
                                                                                    August
                                                                                    2009
Indicator Two:                           R             %            Set of 46       3 of 46 sub-                    % improvement in        YR1, YR3, YR6        Evaluation of       PMU
Improved living conditions in                                       indicators      indicators                      the indicator                                ISA sub-
Vila Estrutural by providing                                                        improved1                       compared to                                  indicator data
integrated urban environmental                                                                                      baseline
services measured by                                                                                                                                             Mid-term
improvement in the sub-                                                                                             70% of families                              monitoring
indicators of the area Social                                                                                       satisfied with                               report in Project


1
    A.7: Provision of Public Equipment; C.41: Years Living in Area; and D.46: Value Per Square Meter of Untitled Land.
Environmental Indicator (ISA)                                                                                        Program results                              Files (August
and by end-of-project                                                                                                                                             2009)
satisfaction survey
Indicator Three:                        D
Generated technical and
institutional capacity
contributing to the Brasilia
metropolitan region
development
                                                                                     INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (Component One):
Policy and Institutional Development Component will finance technical assistance and institutional strengthening in order to create an appropriate technical and institutional environment enabling the
GDF to take informed decisions with respect to metropolitan issues especially for promoting a more sustainable urban and environmental development.
Revised Intermediate Result (Component One):
Strengthening policymaking and institutional capacity of selected GDF agencies/ organs involved in the Program
Intermediate Result indicator          D
One: High quality technical
assistance provided
Intermediate Result indicator          D
Two: Well targeted institutional
capacity activities
carried out
Intermediate Result indicator          N               Text       No plan                                        Plan completed and        YR6                Copy of endorsed     PMU
Three: ADASA strategic plan                                                                                      endorsed                                     plan
endorsed
Intermediate Result indicator          N               Text       No proposal                                    Proposal completed        YR6                Copy of adopted      PMU
Four: SLU restructuring                                                                                          and adopted                                  proposal
proposal adopted by the GDF
Intermediate Result indicator          N               Number     0                                              4 instruments adopted     YR6                Progress Reports     PMU
Five: New planning support
instruments adopted by the
GDF
Intermediate Result (Component Two):
Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction Component comprises activities to promote social inclusion and reduce poverty including: i) Integrated Development Project for Vila Estrutural, and ii) Support
to the Joquei Clube Solid Waste Landfill Waste pickers
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two):
Population access to improved infrastructure and community services in Vila Estrutural




                                                                                           12
Intermediate Result indicator         D
One: Vila Estrutural Social
Environment Indicator
(ISA) improved
Intermediate Result indicator         D
Two: Joquei Club solid waste
waste pickers working in
improved social and
environmental conditions
Intermediate Result indicator         N               %             0%             90%                               100%                    YR1, YR3, YR6         Field visits;       PMU
Three: Percent of population                                                                                                                                       Progress Reports
with access to paved roads,
stormwater drainage system in
Vila Estrutural
Intermediate Result indicator         N               %             0%             Works                             100%                    YR1, YR3, YR6         Field visits;       PMU
Four: Population connected to                                                      underwa                                                                         Progress Reports
sewerage system                                                                    y
Intermediate Result indicator         N               %             Text           New                               All planned facilities  YR1, YR3, YR6         Field visits;       PMU
Five: Provision of additional                                                      facilities                        completed                                     Progress Reports
educational and community                                                          provided
                                                                                   2
facilities in Vila Estrutural
Intermediate Result indicator         N               Number        0              Decree3                           800                     YR1, YR3, YR6         Field visits;       PMU
Six: Number of scavengers                                                                                                                                          Progress Reports
benefiting from GDF-supported
recycling program
Intermediate Result (Component Three):
Water Resources Protection component will finance activities to i) abate water resource pollution loads in Aguas Lindas and Vicente Pires, ii) close the Joquei Clube solid waste landfill and construct a
solid waste sanitary landfill
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Three):
Improved environmental conditions in program-affected areas
Intermediate Result indicator         D
One: Aguas Lindas: #
households connected to
sewerage systems
Intermediate Result indicator         R               Number        0              0                                 5,700                   Annual                Field visits;       CAESB
Two: Number of household                                                                                                                                           Progress Reports


2
 As of August 2009, Vila Estrutural had 2 new social assistance centers (CRAS), 1 new police station, and 1 new daycare center.
3
 Decree 30.523 of July 6, 2009 established the Selective Collection Program for GDF Organizations and entities, with the objective of social and economic inclusion
of scavengers working in the Jóquei Clube. Establishment of solid waste sorting center to employ a maximum of 900 people in progress.




                                                                                           13
connections to the sewerage
system in Vicente Pires
Intermediate Result indicator     D
Three: Closed Joquei Clube
landfill
Intermediate Result indicator     D
Four: Technically and
Environmentally sound
sanitary landfill constructed
Intermediate Result indicator     N              Text        No                                             1/3 of landfill        YR5, YR6   PMU
Five: Environmental                                          remediation                                    remediated
remediation activities of the
unused areas of Joquei landfill
launched
Intermediate Result indicator     N              Text        No process                                     Completed              YR6        PMU
Six: Procurement process of the
new sanitary landfill of the
GDF finished



                                  *Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (see further http://coreindicators)
                                   **Target values should be entered for the years data will be available, not necessarily annually.




                                                                                   14
15
