Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19488
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PUNJAB IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 2076-IN, LOAN NUMBER 3144-IN)
June 23, 1999
Rural Development Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS AND UNITS
Cufrency Unit: Rupees (Rs)
At Appraisal (June 1989): $1 = Rs 16.4
Completion Year (end June 1998): $1 = Rs 41.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Meter (m)  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (1am)  =  0.62 miles (mi)
I hectare  =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)  =  804 acre-feet (ac-ft)
I cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) =  0.0283 cubic meters per second (m3/s)
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2.2 lbs (lb)
1 metric ton (t) =  2,205 pounds (lb)
I thousand million cubic feet (TMC)  =  28.317 million cubic meters (Mm3)
FISCAL YEAR
Government of India
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AD                     Agriculture Department
BBMB                   Bhakra Beas Management Board
CCA                    Culturable Command Area
ED                     Evaluation Directorate
EIA                    Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO/CP                 FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
GO                     Government Order
GOI                    Government of India
GOP                    Government of Punjab
ICR                    Implementation Completion Report
ID                    Irrigation Department
IPRI                   Irrigation and Power Research Institute
ISR                    India Irrigation Sector Review
M&E                    Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA                    Ministry of Agriculture
O&M                    Operation and Maintenance
PAP                    Project-Affected Persons
PCR                    Project Completion Report
PIMTI                  Punjab Irrigation Management and Training Institute
POM                    Plan of Operation and Maintenance
POP                    Project Operation Plan
PSTC                   Punjab State Tubewells Corporation
PWD                    Public Works Department
R&R                    Resettlement and Rehabilitation
SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
WRM                    India Water Resources Management (Sector Review)
WUA                    Water Users Associations
Vice President          Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director        Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager          Ridwan Ali
Team Leader             Keith Oblitas
Task Team Leaders       M. Shah/J. Weatherhogg (FAOCP)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................ ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives    .................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .......................... ..2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................5
D. Project Sustainability .............................6
E. Bank Performance ............................8
F. Borrower Performance ............................8
G. Assessment of Outcome .......................... ..9
H. Future Operation .............................. .                 10
I. Key Lessons Learned ...............................11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table 3. Project Timetable .15
Table 4.   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated
and Actual .16
Table 5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6.   Key Indicators for Project Operation (Not Applicable)
Table 7.   Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A. Project Costs .21
Table 8B. Project Financing .21
Table 9.   Economic Costs and Benefits .22
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants .23
Table 11.  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .26
Table 12.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .26
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions .27
APPENDICES:
A.    Mission's Aide-Memoire .29
B.        Impact Evaluation of the Irrigation and Drainage Modernization
Components in Terms of Water Savings and Related Benefits .44
C.        Review of the Kandi Canal Sub-Project .45
D.    Financial and Economic Analysis .48
E.        Resettlement and Rehabilitation Program .61
F.        Letter from Government of Punjab Disagreeing with Downgrading
Of Project Rating .71
G.        Government of Punjab Evaluation of Project Performance
And Comments on Initial Draft ICR .72
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PUNJAB IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (Cr.2076-IN, Ln.3144-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Punjab Irrigation and Drainage
Project in India for which Cr.2076-IN in the amount of SDR 117.7 million ($150 million) andLn. 3144-
IN in the amount of $15 million were signed on February 9, 1990 and made effective on March 13, 1990.
The original financing plan was modified by cancellation of the loan and SDR3.7 million
($4.72 million) of the Credit in 1991 and by extending the original Credit closing date by four months to
July 31, 1998. Final disbursement was on February 3, 1999. wheni the Credit was ftilly disbursed.
This ICR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission,
which visited India from June 24 to July 8, 1998. The ICR mission coincided with the final supervision
mission2.  It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Ioan, Credit and Project Agreements,
Supervision Reports and documents in the project files as well as briefing documents prcparcd for the
mission's visit by the project stafi: In addition, and with the t'ull collaboration of both the Irrigation
Department (ID) and the Agriculture Department (AD)), the mission undertook a program of tield visits in
order to allow on site inspection and discussions with field staff and beneficiaries. The ICR was further
revised in May 1999 to reflect Punjab's recent policies and lessons from more recent sector work.3
The Govemment of Plunjab (GiOP) conitributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing the
review of project performance and by commenting on the initial version of the ICR, and on the final ICR.
The initial dratl of the ICR, concentrating on the good performilaince of thie physical aspects of' the project,
rated the outcome as satisfactory. After internal review, and in conisideration of issues of sustainability,
the project's rating was changed in the f'inal lIR to uisatist'actory. GOl''s letter disagreeing with this
downgrading is attached as Appendix F. Gi(l's own evaluation of project performance and its comments
on the initial version of the ICR are attaclhed as Appendix Gi.
J. H. Weatherhogg (FAO/CP Mission leudcr, Agricuhlulrlal iFconmoniist), 1). Kraatz (Irrigation/Drainage Engineer,
Consultanit) and R. Chislholnii (Agronlomiiist, C'oiistlihan).
2 M. M. Shah (Task Leader/Consultant, SASRI)) and .1i 1I3. Reddy (Resettlementit and Rehabilitation Specialist,
SASSD).
3 K. Oblitas (Team Leader, lndia Water (irouip)






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PUNJAB IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Cr. 2076-IN, Ln.3144-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        At the end of the 1970's the World Bank supported Government in the preparation of the
Punjab Irrigation Project (Cr. 889-IN), approved in 1979, and the Kandi Area Development Project
(Ln. 1897-IN), approved in 1980.  The first of these aimed at modernization of canals and
watercourses, particularly through lining to reduce seepage losses, improve operation, simplify
maintenance and enable equitable water distribution. The project also financed advanced irrigation
technology on a pilot scale and improvement of institutional capacity. It was broadly successful in
achieving these aims and was completed in 1986. The Kandi Area Development Project was
approved in 1980 and included watershed management components covering forestry, check dams
and soil conservation; irrigation and a number of supporting components, in livestock, crop and craft
development, technical assistance, research and training. The loan closed at the end of 1988. Results
were below expectations due to undue emphasis on irrigation development, lack of co-ordination
between line agencies and delays in implementation. The Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project can
be considered a second phase of the Punjab Irrigation Project and irrigation components in the Kandi
tract built on the experience of the Kandi Area Development Project.
Project Objectives
2.        The project had four main objectives: (a) improving the productivity of the existing
irrigation system; (b) raising living standards in the poorest and most backward areas of the state
through development of irrigation facilities; (c) initiating drainage works, trials and studies to address
the short and long term environmental and production impact of the rising watertable in the State of
Punjab as well as in the context of the other basin states; and, (d) further upgrading the efficiency and
skills of the ID.
3.        Project components in pursuit ot (a) were canial and watercourse lining, modernization
of canal control structures to improve operation, and a new radio communications network to
improve operational efficiency. Poverty alleviation components were concentrated in the Kandi tract
and included completion of the Kandi Canal, started by Government in 1978/79 with a main canal
two-thirds built, but without distributaries; provision of public tubewells above the canal command
where watertables are relatively deep and boulder beds make drilling difficult; and construction of
nine low dams. Drainage components were construction of new drains and rehabilitation of existing
ones in waterlogged areas; provision of equipment for improved maintenance; extensive pilot works;
studies covering a wide range of topics including sub-surface drainage; conjunctive use; more
efficient irrigation methods; improved operational scheduling; and the establishment of a network of
groundwater monitoring wells and weather stations. In addition the project also supported a major
technical study of the options for controlling the long-term drainage problems in north-west India. In
addition to these measures the lining of canals and watercourses in areas with rising watertables were



iii
also expected to reduce the drainage problem. Institutional strengthening included development of
specialist skills in computer aided design and computer based implementation planning (which was
expected to be progressively introduced); and establishment of the Punjab Irrigation Management
and Training Institute (PIMTI) as an in-service training institute, with a curriculum focused on the
design, construction and operational needs of the ID.
4.        In addition to the core components other components covered hydropower development
and system rationalization in the Badshahi and Upper Bari Doab commands; conversion of the
Bikaner and Eastern canals into a single modern lined canal; installation of micro-hydel units in
canals and development of lift irrigation facilities close to the Sutlej-Yamuna link canal. Of these,
only micro-hydel units were implemented, other non-core components being dropped before the start
of the project due to shortage of counterpart funds or riparian rights of neighboring states.
5.        Covenants and agreements. In view of the need for an overall strategy for drainage in
north-west India, it was agreed at negotiations that the regional drainage study be completed by the
end of 1992. A number of Project Agreement covenants relate to resettlement and rehabilitation and
maintenance.
6.        Evaluation of project objectives. The project objectives were clear, and based on
considerable preparatory work by both the Bank and the borrower. Technical design benefited from
the experience and lessons learned from the first phase projects, was based on sound technology, and
sought to introduce new technology, such as sub-surface drainage, computer use in design and system
management and improved communications. The project objectives supported the Bank's country
assistance strategy at the time. However, limited development at project appraisal of strategy and
policies for the water sector meant that, while engineering features were strong, the project was not
anchored in a broader conceptual framework. As a result, design and implementation fell short in
several critical policy areas.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.        Implementation started slowly due to a number of factors including civil disturbance,
lack of counterpart funds, shortage of cement and a Junior Engineer's strike, so that by July 1994
only about one-third of the credit had been disbursed. Subsequent progress was better. Following
cancellation in 1991 of the $15 million Loan and about $4.7 million of the Credit, and with the four-
month extension of the project to end July, 1998 the remainder of the Credit was fully disbursed.
Generally the project has been successful in attainiing its targets in engineering works such as canal
and watercourse lining, structures and drainage works (Table 5). For drainage, revision of the
project targets placed greater emphasis on rehabilitation of existing drains, rather than on excavating
new ones. The planned pilot projects in sub-surface drainage did not take place in the manner
foreseen. Instead of under-draining using plastic pipe or tiles in five waterlogged pockets, a system
using deep surface dtains collecting water to a sump, from which it is pumped into a drain, has
proven successful, but costly. Kandi canal construction started slowly but was virtually complete by
1995, when severe flood damage resulted in additional Bank funding for repairs. Of the Kandi low
dams six of the planned nine have been constructed, one more is under construction and the
remaining two are still at the design and procurement stage. Implementation of resettlement and
rehabilitation (R&R) has proceeded much more slowly than foreseen, although with notable
progress in the last two years. Even so, at end May 1998 compensation payments had been made on



iv
less than half the area acquired and economic rehabilitation measures had been initiated or provided
to only about 40 percent of the affected families (Appendix E). Kandi tubewells sinking and
installation was the responsibility of the Punjab State Tubewells Corporation, which has succeeded in
drilling some 320 wells (against a target of 320), of which about 233 were commissioned by Credit
closing. Implementation of the non-civil works components was markedly less successful. The
improved communications systems, computer facilities, development of PIMTI and studies have
become so delayed as a result of lack of initiative on the part of the implementing agencies,
procedural delays and other factors that any significant investment as envisaged at appraisal could
only now occur with funding from Government budget.
8.         The most deleterious factor affecting  the current assessment of outcome and
sustainability was, however, the politically based decision by GOP in the project's last year, 1997, to
provide farmers with free surface irrigation water and free electric power. This places Punjab in a
financially unsustainable situation, as well as encouraging waste and misuse of both water and power.
It further exacerbated a situation already of concern to Bank supervision missions: inadequate
provision of funds by GOP for maintenance of irrigation. The lack of attention, both at project
design and during implementation, to creating farmer institutions for grass-roots management of
irrigation is also a significant gap. Together, they raise critical sustainability issues.
9.         An underpinning weakness of the project has been its limited anchoring within an overall
strategy for Punjab's water sector. The project was prepared and appraised at a time when sector
strategies in the Bank and, not least, India, were not well developed. The Bank had not yet prepared
its water resources management policy paper (1993). The recent (1998) India Water Resources
Management (WRM) Sector Review between Government of India (GOI) and the Bank presents a
strategy covering many areas not tackled under the project, and which now appear, with the wisdom
of hindsight, to be opportunities foregone. For instance, as concerns irrigation service improvement,
the India WRM articulates a progression from a "vicious circle" (self-perpetuating negative
influences) to a "virtuous circle" of mutually reinforcing positive influences in the areas of financial
self-sufficiency for O&M (operation and mainteniance) development of grass-roots farmer
organizations for management of O&M, institutional transformation of the water service agency,
simultaneous strengthening of agricultural extension, and primary emphasis in engineering on O&M,
systems rehabilitation and strengthening in all software aspects, from farmer and staff training, to
communications, computerization and monitoring, to state and basin water planning, hydrology and
design. The WRM also recommends the development of state water policies, which, if this had been
done at the outset in Punjab, might have helped focus on1 the broader macro and sector issues.
10.       The main factors affecting the project include the initially poor security situation up to
1992 and cement shortage in 1990 to 91; floods in the Kandi tract in 1995 and 1996; problems of cost
inflation and limitations of budget and disbursement of funds to the implementing agencies; frequent
rotation and retirement of key staff in the period 1990 to 1992; inadequate commitment to the non-
civil works components; lack of adequate funding of O&M; and lack of sufficiently close co-
ordination between ID and the other line agencies such as the AD and the Forestry Department.
11.       The most important influences, however, were in policy and strategy. The unilateral
decision of GOP in the project's last year to provide free water and power to farmers provides no
base for a financially viable and self-sustaining sector. It also exacerbated the inadequacy of funds
for maintenance, already a problem before GOP's announcement. The lack of attention to creating



v
water user associations (WUAs) at project design and perpetuated during implementation, forgoes
many likely benefits from such institutions, including better and more equitable water management,
enhancement of effectively irrigated area, and an irrigation service more focussed on farmer and
agricultural needs. It has also affected the prospects for sustainability of water courses, theoretically
the maintenance responsibility of farmers, but with no grass-roots institutions to take on this
responsibility. The absence of an associated agricultural intensification program also limits the
impact on production of the project's improvements in irrigation and drainage infrastructure.
12.       Sustainability. The above assessment leads to the conclusion that, in the absence of
major changes in GOP policies and strategy, the sustainability of the project investments is unlikely.
Major changes required include a reversal of the policy for free water and power, significant
augmentation of funding levels for maintenance, the raising of water charges to levels where they
cover the needs of full O&M and related administration, creation of WUAs to participate in irrigation
management and handle O&M of watercourses and perhaps minors and distributories, retention and
sharing of water charges between the WUAs and the service agency so that funding for O&M is self-
generated, and institutional restructuring and strengthening of the ID. Other desirable measures
include watershed management of upper catchments, and improvements in agricultural extension to
further augment production in line with the improvements made in the irrigation and drainage
systems.
13.       Project cost and financing. Total project costs are estimated at credit closing at Rs7.79
billion ($245.4 million) compared with the estimated cost at appraisal of Rs4.60 billion ($246.5
million) (Table 8A.). Government share of funding is estimated at ICR at around 39 percent of the
total project costs, or about Rs3.01 billion ($94.8 million), compared with 35 percent, or about
Rs.1.62 billion ($81.5 million) at appraisal (Table 8B.).
14.       The Bank's performance in technical engineering aspects was excellent, from design
through to supervision. Procurement, disbursement monitoring and administration were also handled
well.  Focus on strategic objectives was weak, particularly at the formative Identification and
Appraisal stages, though this must be understood in the context of a time when the Bank's irrigation
sector work and strategy were not well developed. Supervision was strong in technical areas, and
helpful to implementation of appraisal objectives, but concentrated on engineering aspects and R&R.
Borrower performance has been generally strong   in engineering  aspects and physical
implementation of works. Resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) implementation has been poor and
behind schedule. The ID did not sufticienitly appreciate the need to modernize its own institutional
capabilities, with all software components of the project significantly underachieved. A critical
implementation weakness in GOP provisions was the chronic under-funding of maintenance. The
declaration of free water and power was a major regressive step; in firmly moving in reverse, Punjab
stands out amongst India's states.
15.       Assessment of project outcome. The project was successful in implementing most of
its physical targets, for components comprising over 90 percent of appraisal estimated project costs.
Works were completed in accordance with good design and construction standards. However, the
software aspects of R&R and institution strengthening were weakly implemented. The overall
economic rate of return is re-estimated at more than 16 percent, and in a narrow perspective the
project could be rated as a success. However, this assumes production levels that may not be
sustained unless current levels of maintenance are significantly stepped up.  With project



vi
sustainability under threat from low maintenance and other factors (refer above), it would be unwise
to rank project outcome as other than unsatisfactory. It would be interesting to reassess project
sustainability and outcome in several years time. If Punjab implements a reform program to create its
own "virtuous circle", both sustainability and outcome could ultimately emerge as satisfactory. The
investments themselves have been well done, and if features required to achieve their sustainability
were introduced, a very different assessment would be appropriate. But the current situation does not
lead to optimism that such reforms will be introduced in the near future4.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
16.        The general conclusion.on the project is that it has been very satisfactory in meeting its
civil works targets, weak in R&R, disappointing in not having taken the opportunity provided to
modernize  institutional and  operating  aspects  through  the  other components  related  to
communications, computers, training and studies, and particularly deficient in several critical policy
areas which make the project currently unsustainable. ID have prepared a project operation plan
(POP) for the completion of project implementation after credit closing, the main aspects of which
are summarized in Attachment I of the Aide Memoire. Reordered to reflect the most pressing
priorities, the following actions are particularly required: (a) reverse the current GOP policy of free
water and electricity for agriculture in favor of charges retlecting the full cost of O&M and related
administration for surface water, and pricing reflecting Bank/GOI policies for electricity; (b) issue
the Government Order (GO) on enhanced O&M norms and provide for the release of corresponding
fully adequate funds for O&M; (c) finalization of a Plan of O&M for the canal system and
institutionalization of inspection procedures for prioritizing O&M work; (d) turning over all lined
water courses to farmers WUAs for future maintenance (in association with appropriate legislative
changes, outreach and training); (e) completion of R&R; and (f) other actions as detailed in the Aide
Memoire.
17.        Most fundamentally, GOP should thoroughly reassess its irrigation and water resources
management policies and strategy in the light of the India WRM Sector Review, also reviewing
experience in other states and countries as it does this.  Mexico, Andhra Pradesh, emerging
developments in Orissa, and likely developments in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh are amongst the
experiences that could be reviewed by GOP. On that basis, a new water sector and irrigation policy
and implementation strategy could be prepared by Punjab as a basis for its future water sector
development.
18.        For the Bank, assuming Punjab is willing to tackle such issues, consideration should be
given to making annual multi-disciplinary strategy review and post-project supervision missions to
Punjab for the next several years, to help Punjab in its strategy formulation and implementation. In
any case, completion of R&R actions should be followed up, with missions to assist GOP to complete
its R&R actions under the project.
4 This assessment is a downgrading of the initial assessment during the ICR mission and is disagreed with by the
borrower (Appendix F). It reflects, in particular, continuation of GOP's policies for provision of free water and
power to farmers and inadequate current funding of O&M. Continued discussions with GOP on such policies is
intended, and could result in retrospective revisions of the ratings if GOP's current policies are reversed and
sustainability is reassessed as likely.



vii
19.       Key lessons learned. The main lessons learned are:
*  The Need for a Strategy and Broader Conceptual Framework.   The most
fundamental inadequacy, driving several others (see below), was the lack of an
underlying strategy and policy for Punjab's irrigation and water resources sector. The
India WRM sector work (1998), and even the earlier India Irrigation Sector Review
(ISR) sector work (1991), and the Bank's water resources management policy paper
(1993) were not available at the time of project design and appraisal. With the benefits
of today's knowledge and hind-sight, the results of inadequate sector analysis, in terms
of limited policy and institutional development objectives, and inadequate attention to
sustainability, are evident. The major gap was in failure to think through the combined
features required to create a "virtuous circle" of actions enabling self-sustaining sector
development. These include: creation of water user associations for participation in
irrigation management and for full handling of O&M of at least watercourses and minor
canals; raising of water charges to at least cover O&M; raising funding levels for
maintenance works to fully sustain the irrigation and drainage systems; retention of
water charges to be used by the WUAs and the service agency to self-finance O&M to
full required levels; strengthening of agricultural extension to facilitate full production
benefits from the investments; progressive but ultimately major institutional
restructuring, decentralization and commercialization of the ID to create a modem
service agency; and, development of institutions, policies, legislation and technical
capability to comprehensively plan, manage and allocate the state's water resources in a
holistic fashion, including water quality as well as quantity, groundwater as well as
surface water, and based on hydraulic (basin/sub-basin) units.
*  The Need for Sustainable Water Pricing and O&M. Self-evidently, the sustainability
of the project financed improvements in irrigation and drainage will depend on adequate
O&M. This in turn requires fully secure and adequate financing. Studies in irrigation
show that farners are prepared to pay, so long as they receive the services for which
they have paid. GOP's O&M expenditure levels need to be significantly increased.
Water charges need to be both reintroduced and raised to fully cover required costs of
O&M and related administration. Money collected should remain with the farmer
organizations and the ID, to make them financially self-reliant, rather than being paid
over into a government treasury.
*  The Need for Participatory Irrigation Management and Water User Associations.
Development of grass-roots institutions for irrigation management has been identified as
part of the WRM's irrigation service reform strategy and a core part of the virtuous
circle. Ongoing efforts in states such as Andhra Pradesh, and in countries such as
Mexico, are demonstrating the benefits that can be achieved. Punjab's problems of
inadequate attention to maintenance of watercourses, supposedly the responsibility of
farmers, could be addressed through establishment of such grass-roots institutions.
Greater equity in water distribution, likely expansion of effectively irrigated area, and
better participation in and suitability of main system operational plans and irrigation
supplies are all potential areas of further benefit.



viii
* The Need for Institutional Development. The "software" aspects of the project,
including training, studies and computer and communications facilities, were all
appropriate, but did not address the priority issues in restructuring and strengthening the
ID for the modem-day needs of water resources management and high performing and
sustainable service delivery. Even the limited institutional objectives under the project
were largely not achieved, due to a strong bias in the ID and GOP to focus on civil
works components. A strategic vision for the sector's development and the evolution of
sector institutions is required, and can benefit from the sector work and observation of
reform programs in other states and countries.
*  The Need for Integration with Agricultural Development. This was largely left out
of project design, in implementation by the borrower, and in Bank supervision.
Significant further benefits may have been possible if agricultural intensification had
also been tackled, and if agricultural aspects had also been examined during project
design.  All recent water sector and irrigation projects include an agricultural
intensification program, with significant benefits beginning to show.
*  The Need for Coordination between Government Agencies. In order to maximize
project benefits, good coordination is required, not only within water resources agencies,
but also with government and university agencies involved in agriculture, livestock and
forestry. These agencies need to be fully involved in aspects such as agricultural
research, extension and watershed protection in order to maximize water use efficiency
and ensure project sustainability.
*  The Need for Multi-disciplinary Bank and Borrower Staff Inputs.  The project
appraisal and supervision missions were well staffed with engineering and R&R
expertise, and engineering aspects of the project have been well handled by the borrower
and Bank alike. Supervision by the Bank of R&R has also been satisfactory. Bank skills
in other areas-notably in sector strategy, economics, community organization,
agriculture, environment, finance and institutions were less prevalent, and their absence
contributed to limited attention and achievements in these areas. The borrower had even
less focus on these areas, with ID staff expertise being almost exclusively in civil works
engineering.






1
India
Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project (Cr. 2076-IN, Ln. 3144-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
l.        The project supported the Punjab's investment program in irrigation in a core program
with four main objectives:
(a)  to improve the productivity of the existing irrigation system. Improved irrigation
efficiency was sought by investments in canal and water course lining, modernized
canal control structures aimed at improving operation, and a modem radio
communications network to allow improved operational efficiency;
(b)  to raise living standards in the poorest and most backward areas of the state
through development of irrigation facilities.  Agricultural development in the
poorest area of the state, the Kandi Zone, was to be promoted by investments in
completing the Kandi Canal, construction of public tubewells above the canal
command where water tables were often relatively deep and boulder beds made
drilling difficult and construction of nine low dams in the Kandi tract;
(c)  Initiating drainage works, trials and studies to address the short and long term
environmental and production impact of the rising water table in the state of
Puijab as well as in the context of the other Basin states. Drainage problems were
to be addressed through works in waterlogged areas, equipment for improved
maintenance, extensive pilot works and studies in subsurface drainage and studies
of aspects such as conjunctive use, more efficient irrigation methods, improved
operational scheduling and the establishment of a network of groundwater
monitoring wells and weather stations. A major technical study of the options for
controlling the long-term drainage problems in north-west India was to be assisted.
Lining programs in main canals, distributaries and watercourses in areas with
rising watertables were also expected to provide drainage benefits; and
(d)  Further upgrading the efficiency and skills of the ID. Institutional development
was to be supported through development of specialist skills in computer aided
design and computer based implementation planning which would be
progressively introduced. The project also sought to support establishment of an
in-service training institute, the PIMTI with a curriculum focused on the design,
construction and operational needs of the ID.
2.        In addition to these core components comprising 90 percent of the investment, flexibility
was sought by allowing for the balance of funds to be spent in a non-core program including



2
hydropower development and system rationalization in the Badshahi and Upper Bari Doab
commands, rationalization of the Bikaner and Eastern canals into a single modern lined canal,
installation of micro-hydel units in canals and development of lift irrigation facilities in areas
adjoining the Sutlej-Yamuna link canal.  Of these investments, only micro-hydel units were
eventually developed, with other investments (such as low-lift pumps and system rationalization)
dropped due to shortage of counterpart funds and because of problems of riparian water supply to
Rajasthan (the proposal for modernizing the Bikaner and Eastern Canals).
3.        The project objectives were clear, and based on considerable preparatory work by the
Bank and the Borrower, including the experience and lessons learned from the earlier projects. The
objectives  were  based  on  realistic  assumptions  regarding  available  technology  and
expertise/equipment available for construction, with appropriate adjustments. The continuation of
the lining program initiated in the first phase project was based on sound technology, including a
refined means of waterproofing of canals and watercourses. The lining program was to be restricted
to areas underlain by saline groundwater, where seepage prevention would yield sufficient returns to
be economically viable. The design of the drainage component was progressive in that it was not
confined to surface drainage, but also aimed at introducing modern means of sub-surface drainage on
a pilot scale. The regional dimension of the drainage problem in Punjab in relation to its neighboring
states was also to be addressed in a major study and converted into an action plan. The objectives
presented a mix of engineering and institutional strengthening components with a spread of
investment in the plains and poorer Kandi Zone areas, following up on the Kandi Watershed and
Area Development Project (Cr. 1897-IN). A large number of studies were also included (Table 7).
The project objectives thus supported the Bank's country assistance strategy at the time, which
emphasized economic growth in a context of macro-economic stability, efficient resource allocation,
increased efficiency in the public sector and appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to
the poor. As discussed later, limited development at project appraisal of strategy and policies for the
water and irrigation sector had its impact in project design. The project design was clear, and project
preparation was good in technical areas, but it was not anchored in a broader conceptual framework,
and design and implementation consequently fell short in several critical policy areas.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.        The project was appraised without major changes to its scope and proposed investments.
The credit became effective on March 13, 1990. Early progress was delayed by a difficult security
situation and problems with both availability of counterpart funds and disbursements. Additional
problems included availability of cement, a Junior Engineer's strike and delays in procurement of
plant and equipment so that the credit was only 33.5 percent disbursed at the mid-term supervision
mission in July 1994. The $15 million Loan and about $4.7 million equivalent of the Credit were
cancelled in 1991. Progress was more rapid after the mid-term review, despite damaging floods in
the Kandi Canal area in 1995, so that by the initial closing date of end March 1998, the actual
disbursement of the Credit achieved was about 85 percent. After extension of the Credit closing date
to July 31, 1998, the remainder of the Credit was fully disbursed, with final disbursement on
February 3, 1999.



3
5.        The project has been generally successful in achieving the engineering objectives in
improving the productivity of the existing irrigation system and in improving drainage works. Canal,
distributary and watercourse lining works all proceeded efficiently and to high standards, generally
exceeding appraisal estimates, although the co-ordination between the organizations responsible for
canals (ID) and water courses [Punjab State Tubewells Corporation (PSTC)] was sometimes poor and
resulted in, for example, inadequate structures at distributary offtakes and disregard for maintenance
of previous investments in distributories and water courses lined under the first Bank assisted
irrigation project. Nevertheless all 315 planned structures were modernized by the closing date. As
designed, drainage improvement was a balanced mix of rehabilitation and new drainage. This was
given up in favor of what could be called a deferred maintenance program of clearing existing badly
silted and overgrown drains, partly because of farmer resistance but also because of the emphasis by
GOP on use of funds for rehabilitating existing drains. In addition, the improvements made to the
existing drainage system also included development and implementation of new design criteria
established by Punjab ID engineers in collaboration with the Central Water Commission, GOI and
assistance from World Bank consultants. Some 1,891 km of existing drains have been resectioned
(revised target 1,691 km), but only 120 km of new drains excavated, compared to a revised target of
126 km and an original SAR estimate of 1,314 km. As a result, about 100,000 ha of waterlogged
area was improved, while a similar area remained unaffected by the drainage component as
implemented. For cross drain bridges, 202 out of 321 planned were constructed. The planned sub-
surface drainage using plastic pipe tile drainage systems was not implemented, being regarded as not
cost effective. However, an alternative system using deep surface drains and pumping to drainage
canals was implemented successfully on a pilot basis in 5 of 11 identified waterlogged pockets. All
four planned mini hydel stations were completed by the revised closing date.
6.        After a very slow start, work on the Kandi Canal proceeded efficiently and was almost
complete by 1995 when severe flooding caused considerable damage to both the canal and
watercourses. Lack of funds for major repairs of the damaged canal system eventually required
additional Bank assistance of some Rsl20 million to repair the damage. However, adequate O&M
funds, preventative measures against future floods, such as vegetative catchment protection and, in
one case, adequate cross drainage, are still lacking.
7.        Six of the planned nine low dams were constructed, with an additional dam under
construction at the closing date and two more in the design stage. Although notable progress has
been achieved in R&R implementation during the last two years, there is still a substantial portion of
this component yet to be completed for the seven dams implemented under the project. The balance
of activities include: (a) completion of the land acquisition process and making final payment for
land compensation to the oustees (about 50 percent); (b) resettlement of 47 families affected by Jainti
dam; and (c) economic rehabilitation of about 60 percent of the affected families. No progress was
made in encouraging beneficiaries below the dams to sell land to oustees at "fair market prices",
although such an objective was probably unrealistic from the outset. The project followed Indian
Government guidelines for resettlement and accomplished almost all of its targets. However, it did
not introduce new initiatives in resettlement, particularly greater equity in distribution of benefits.
The project did not really address the problem of income rehabilitation compared to simple
compensation. Other options which might have been considered include the allocation of tradeable
water rights to both landowners and landless.  The willingness of potential beneficiaries to



4
redistribute lands in order to create greater opportunities for the project affected persons might have
been made a much stronger selection criteria during design and appraisal.
8.         The State Tubewells Corporation had completed drilling of all 320 tubewells by the
revised closing date. However, at credit closing only 233 tubewells had been commissioned because
of delays in energization of the tubewells by the State Electricity Board. The financial analysis
(Appendix D) shows that all Kandi Zone investments have improved the financial status of
beneficiaries considerably, although the potential benefits of Kandi Canal were reduced by the lack
of an adequate survey of existing groundwater irrigation development at appraisal. Much of the
command area is thus already irrigated by private tubewells. The distribution of benefits from the
low dams and tubewells did not emphasize equity and the project's R&R measures for low dams
generally failed to develop the concept of rehabilitation of income earning capacity compared to
simple compensation, as desired at design.
9.         The performance of the project's "soft" components was very disappointing and
contributed to a generally unsatisfactory situation in terms of sustainability.  The improved
communications systems, computer facilities, development of PIMTI and studies including those
related to seepage losses from lined and unlined canals were delayed from the outset, often due to
lack of initiative by the implementing agencies, procedural delays and other factors. Little progress
had been made on either the communications system or actual procurement of computers by the
closing date. PIMTI was affected by delays in approval of staffing arrangements and difficulties in
securing adequate staff for what is still regarded as an unpopular posting. Support to the Bhakra
Beas Management Board (BBMB) as a Central Agency under a state-managed project turned out to
be impractical. Despite considerable effort by Bank staff, no progress could be achieved under this
important sub-component.  In retrospect, these "software" components themselves were overly
modest in their conception. Under the India Water Resources Management Sector Review (1998)5, a
much broader policy and institutional reform agenda is provided
10.       Failure to incorporate measures for improvements in agricultural productivity, such as
those in the first project, appeared to be a result of emphasis on irrigation and drainage and a
complacency over the achievements of the green revolution years of the 1960s and 1970s. As a
result, whilst improvements in canal efficiency and drainage were achieved by the relevant
components, the effects may have been partly self-defeating, since farmers are using the additional
water for expanded paddy culture rather than allowing sufficient water to be available to permnit other
farmers to expand the irrigated area.
11.       The most deleterious factors affecting the current assessment of outcome and
sustainability were, however, the combination of Government policy decisions near the end of the
project period, exacerbated by inadequate attention to some critical sustainability areas. In 1997,
The India WRM Sector Review (1998), prepared jointly by the World Bank and GOI, provides a comprehensive
review and strategy document for India's water sector. The WRM comprises the following six reports:
(i) Initiating and Sustaining Water Sector Reforms (an overview); (ii) Inter-Sectoral Water Allocation, Planning
and Management; (iii) Groundwater Regulation and Management; (iv) The Irrigation Sector; (v) Urban Water
Supply and Sanitation; and (vi) Rural Water Supply and Sanitation".



5
Government of Punjab declared surface irrigation water and electric power for pumping groundwater
to be free of cost. This politically based decision, taken without consultation with the Bank, places
Punjab irrigation in a financially unsustainable situation, as well as encouraging waste and misuse of
both water and power.6 It further exacerbated a worrying situation already of concern to Bank
supervision missions: inadequate provision of funds by GOP for maintenance of irrigation. The lack
of attention, both at project design and during implementation, to creating fanner institutions for
grass-roots management of irrigation can also be seen from the current strategy for irrigation in India
to have been a significant gap. Together, they raise critical sustainability issues.
12.        An underpinning weakness of the project has been its limited anchoring within an overall
strategy for Punjab's water sector. The project was prepared and appraised at a time when irrigation
sector strategies in the Bank and, not least, India, were not well developed. The Bank had not yet
prepared its WRM policy paper (1993). In India, no sector work in irrigation had been done. Since
appraisal of the Punjab project, major sector work has been done, starting with the India ISR in 1991,
and more recently in the much broader India WRM Sector Review in 1998. Both the ISR and the
WRM emphasise strategy needs in the water resources sector and in supply of water services.
Amongst the many issues discussed are the very things which the project has not tackled. For
instance, the India WRM articulates a progression from a "vicious circle" (self-perpetuating negative
influences) to a "virtuous circle" of mutually reinforcing positive influences in the areas of financial
self-sufficiency for O&M, development of grass-roots farmner organizations for management of
O&M, institutional transformation of the water service agency, simultaneous strengthening of
agricultural extension, and primary emphasis in engineering on O&M, systems rehabilitation and
strengthening in all software aspects, from farmer and staff training, to communications,
computerization and monitoring, to state and basin water planning, hydrology and design. This
strategy is being applied in the more recent projects, but was not available at the time of project
appraisal of the Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project, and, in its current form, was only beginning
to emerge at the time of project closure. The WRM also recommends the development of state water
policies, which, if this had been done at the outset in Punjab, might have helped focus attention on
the broader macro and sector issues.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
13.        Factors not generally subject to Government control. The main factors affecting
performnance were the initially poor security situation up to 1992, problems with the availability of
inputs such as cement in 1990 to 91, a junior engineers strike and record floods in the Kandi Zone in
1995 and 1996.
Directly as a result of GOP's decision to provide free water and power to farmers, the Bank halted all further
processing of the proposed Punjab Water Resources Management Project. The project, which was to have
provided support to state water resources planning and rural water supply and sanitation, was already appraised
and about to be negotiated. GOP's decision has also effectively precluded all further considerations for other
lending affected by these issues.



6
14.       Factors generally subject to Government control. Persistent problems occurred early
in project life with release of funds and with disbursement of funds to implementing agencies.
Frequent rotation and retirement of key staff also affected progress from 1990 to 1992. Inadequate
O&M funding for all components, particularly the Kandi canal, exacerbated the effects of problems
initially beyond government control.
15.       The most regrettable action by GOP was its policy decision late in project
implementation (1997) to provide surface irrigation water and rural electric power (for groundwater
pumping) free of charge (para. 11). This further exacerbated the state's financial situation and added
further pressure to the already inadequate provisions of government funding to maintenance. This
action contradicts all sound management principles, provides no basis for a financially viable and
self-sustaining sector, and will have repercussions also on water use and power use efficiency. It has
reduced the availability of power to farmers for tubewell operations and will reduce irrigation water
availability and equity of distribution as structures and canals are inadequately maintained.
16.       Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The project was generally
implemented with as much efficiency and emphasis on timeliness as available funds allowed.
However, the overall result and sustainability have been affected by several problems. Firstly,
prevailing attitudes in the ID regard training and design roles as inferior in status to field engineering.
Improvements such as a modern communications system and Computer Aided Design (CAD),
planned at appraisal were thus not promoted by the organization to Government. Staffing of PIMTI
has been slow and inadequate and the failure to release competent junior staff for training at PIMTI is
reducing its effectiveness. Secondly, the coordination in implementation between various water
related directorates and the Department of Irrigation is poor, as is the coordination between the ID
and other line agencies such as the Agriculture and Forestry Departments (AD and FD). Thirdly,
maintenance of lined watercourses suffers since formalized and responsible farmer's organizations
do not exist. The maintenance issue now goes well beyond this, with free provisions of water and
power further exacerbating inadequate provisions of maintenance funds even before these regrettable
decisions were taken.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.       Adequate O&M funds for upkeep of the extensive canal system and related facilities
created in Punjab is of prime importance to ensure sustainability of the benefits. Actual allocation of
O&M funds should be needs-based and determined and prioritized on the basis of institutionalized
inspection procedures to be laid down in the Plan of Operation and Maintenance (POM) Manual.
The manual is in the process of finalization by the Canal Directorate of ID.
18.       The current situation of inadequate O&M  funds for the canal system will adversely
affect sustainability of the vast infrastructure established, unless the O&M norms are revised and
adequate funds provided on a regular basis.  Lined watercourses are not maintained by the
beneficiaries as required by the Irrigation Act, nor by the ID, and their sustainability is seriously at
stake. Kandi Canal system is highly vulnerable to floods in flashy rivulets crossed by it and requires



7
adequate O&M funds for its upkeep and the maintenance of flood banks upstream (including
vegetative protection) if it is to be sustainable.
19.       A Committee of Chief Engineers has reviewed O&M  requirements in-depth and
produced a report recommending revised norms for O&M according to which the O&M funds have
to be trebled. The report recommends an allowance in GOP budgeting of Rs3O7/ha which would
provide some Rs950 million for O&M expenditure divided approximately into Rs500 million for
establishment costs and Rs450 million for works. Unfortunately, the current GOP policy of free
water means that an income from water charges of some Rs300 million (even then inadequate as
water charges were too low) is foregone and funding is totally inadequate.
20.       Although the government has accepted enhancement of O&M norms in principle, the
recommended level of Rs307/ha appears low by world standards, even allowing for low labor costs,
since it assumes that the whole system has been rehabilitated at the outset, which is not the case.
Regularly inadequate annual maintenance, made good by periodic capitalization as deferred
maintenance projects, is a costly way to operate and one which perpetuates farmer dependency.
Under the Irrigation Act, the Panchayat is the legal entity responsible for watercourse maintenance.
However, it has no means of adequately organizing farmers to conduct maintenance on lined
watercourses and the policy of free water and power is encouraging farmers to see maintenance as an
additional GOP responsibility.
21.       Overall agricultural sustainability has been reduced by neglect of watershed protection in
the Kandi Zone (particularly for Kandi Canal) and by not addressing problems of relatively low
yields in crops other than rice in plains areas during design. Initiatives such as canal lining have
improved water supply but groundwater levels are likely to rise in response to paddy culture.
Drainage components appear sustainable and have encouraged further private investment in
tubewells for irrigation. Many of the problems now affecting sustainability could have easily been
addressed at design by including the Departments of Agriculture, Forestry and Environment in the
project from the outset and using team members with social and biological expertise during
supervision, and having a properly conceived and implemented environmental assessment,
resettlement and rehabilitation plan.
22.       Overall project sustainability is thus rated unlikely. The only way this rating could
change, and the sector situation altered to one where sustainability of project investments were
assured, would be if Punjab embarked on a major shift in its sector policies and sector strategy. The
kind of changes needed are discussed in the India WRM sector review reports.7 A self-evident
required change is the reversal of GOP's subsidy policy for water, with water to be charged at prices
at least able to cover required levels of O&M to ensure sustainable maintenance and sound
operations. Other core change areas include bringing farmers into the management of irrigation,
through water user associations at least managing systems at watercourse and minor levels, collection
and retention of water charges by the farmer organizations and the service agency, so they are
financially self-sufficient for O&M and related administration, institutional restructuring and
World Bank, 1998. In particular, the reports on: the Irrigation Sector; Inter-sectoral Water Allocation, Planning
and Management; and Groundwater Regulation and Management.



8
strengthening of the ID, and parallel improvements in agricultural services with close synergy
between water, agriculture, land and environmental management objectives and actions.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
23.       Bank performance has been mixed. Project design, preparation and supervision was
highly satisfactory in engineering features. Based on the first phase experience, the project was
broadened to include not only canal and watercourse modernization, which is basically lining, but
also a substantial drainage component and investments in Kandi area development. These physical
works investments were balanced by components to improve institutional capabilities and their
effectiveness in managing irrigation water conveyance and distribution through use of computers and
advanced means of telecommunication as well as studies. R&R provisions for the Kandi low dams
were designed with particular care. Despite this, continued interest and guidance from the Bank will
be required in future to ensure R&R actions are brought to a successful conclusion. Weak points in
the project design were the lack of a provision for active participation by the AD in the project, and
the lack of sufficient analysis of the Kandi canal proposal, particularly the alternative of tubewell
development (Annex D).
24.       Twelve supervision missions were carried out during the nine-year implementation
period. Three early missions were led by an economist, but focus on strategic features for long-term
sustainability was limited. An engineer participated in each of the twelve missions, while an R&R
expert joined five. Essentially, these were the only specializations, and the task team would have
benefited from broader specializations, including in strategy and economics, institutional,
agricultural, community organization, environmental and financial skills. This further consolidated
the project bias towards an engineering identity. In terms of supporting implementation of the
physical works components, the supervision missions were very useful. However, not enough vigor
was exercised in accomplishing adequate progress in implementing the "software components" of the
project. The issues related to operation and maintenance were the concern of many supervision
missions, without however achieving satisfactory results. Covenants included under the project
lacked specificity on O&M funding and water charges that might have helped progress in these areas.
Relying on a study during the project period to recommend adequate maintenance funding reduced
leverage on these issues. An understandable weakness, given that no sector work or strategy existed
at time of appraisal and the WRM sector work was only available at project closure, was the limited
focus in identification and subsequent appraisal and supervision on the core strategic needs for
Punjab's water sector. This was only reinforced by GOP's similar lack of focus on these areas.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.       By project start-up the main implementing agencies, ID and PSTC, already had a
substantial implementation capacity in place for starting canal and watercourse lining and tubewell
development Also, designs for some of the Kandi low dams were ready. Initial poor performance
was largely due to factors outside the Government's control (paras.4 and 13). Inadequate budget
release for project works was a repeated problem. Performance of R&R implementation has been



9
poor and activities are well behind schedule. Physical achievement and quality of works, particularly
considering how the many canal modernization works were constrained by short system closure
times, are highly commendable. However ID did not appear to fully appreciate the equally important
role of modernization of the means to manage the complex irrigation systems. It was obviously not
fully recognized that potential savings of water through more efficient water conveyance and
distribution down to chak level could well be of comparable magnitude to the savings through
modernized structural components. ID also failed to take advantage of the chance to test sub-surface
drainage machinery on a pilot scale and the studies component suffered due to frequent changes in
the incumbent Director WRD (details in Table 7).
26.       According to the project agreement, GOP was required to study in depth O&M of the
canal system to identify inadequacies, prepare an action plan and assess annual fund requirements.
Based on the study GOP was to allocate adequate funds annually. The study was completed only in
1997 and although accepted by GOP in principle, by project closure a GO was yet to be issued. The
issue of lined watercourse maintenance (beneficiaries and/or ID) remains unresolved and as per the
GOP decision of 1997, water and electricity to farmers are free. Thus, adding to these deficiencies,
in its final year of implementation, GOP took a major reverse step in its irrigation and water
resources management. As at present, the key sectoral features for the ultimate sustainability of the
project investments are not there, and no justification exists for further investment in Punjab's water
sector until sustainability issues are satisfactorily resolved. In response, the Bank halted further
preparation of Punjab's proposed Water Resources Management project, and other options for
Punjab's water and related sectors are also out of consideration.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.       The project was successful in implementing most of the physical targets set, with some
revisions. However, institutional strengthening components and the performance of the borrower in
providing a supportive policy and funding environment have been disappointing, culminating in the
lamentable decision by GOP in 1997 to provide surface irrigation and electric power for farmers free
of charge. Funds for O&M were already too low to sustain project investments, and with reduced
water charges income this situation can only get worse. If free water and power persists, this will
have major negative consequences for the sector. The project's poverty alleviation and social
objectives are also threatened by inadequate maintenance, with tail-end farmers particularly
susceptible. The R&R program needs to be completed to ensure satisfactory rehabilitation of
affected persons. Environmental sustainability also needs follow-up work, particularly in the Kandi
system, in watershed management and in monitoring and addressing drainage and salinity issues.
28.       Analysis of the project's impact on farm incomes shows a very positive effect with
incomes estimated to increase at full project development by from about 20 percent in the plains
irrigated areas to a more than eight-fold increase in net farm income as a result of tubewell
installation in the Kandi Tract, as detailed in Appendix D. However, the project's impact has been
different from that forecast at appraisal. Whereas in the SAR the assumption was that irrigation
water savings would be used to increase irrigated area, the field visits and data indicate that water
savings are generally used to enable a switch from low yield cotton to a more profitable paddy crop.



10
Overall economic rate of return for the main project components, before inclusion of any drainage
benefits, which it is presently too early to assess, is re-estimated at more than 16 percent, as detailed
in Appendix D. However, the economic analysis assumes adequate maintenance to sustain project
investments. In the present situation of inadequate maintenance and no revenues from water charges,
economic benefits would be expected to decrease significantly from the assumed levels, as a result of
deteriorating infrastructure.
29.        If it could be assumed that funding levels and maintenance practices would improve in
the near future so as to sustain the benefits of project investments, the project would be rated as a
success overall. However, with maintenance funding levels well below needs and the financing gap
expected to worsen in the absence of water charges, with minimal development of farmner
organizations, and with limited development of the ID's institutional capacity, the project's
sustainability is clearly unlikely without significant policy changes. With sustainability under threat,
it would be unwise to rank project outcome as other than unsatisfactory8. It would be interesting to
reassess project outcome in several years time. If Punjab embraces the new Bank/GOI water sector
strategy, and proceeds with a reform program to create its own "virtuous circle", both sustainability
and project outcome could ultimately emerge as satisfactory. The investments themselves have been
generally well done, and if features for their sustainability were introduced this would enable a very
different assessment. But the current situation is clearly not that.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
30.        The following time-bound actions would be required to complete the project as designed
and to ensure that it is operated in such a way that its objectives are achieved: (a) reverse the current
GOP policy of free water and electricity for agriculture in favor of charges reflecting the full cost of
O&M and related administration for surface water, and pricing reflecting Bank/GOI policies for
electricity; (b) issue the GO on enhanced O&M norms and provide for the release of corresponding
fully adequate funds for O&M; (c) finalization of a POM for the canal system and institutionalization
of inspection procedures for prioritizing O&M work; (d) turning over all lined water courses to
farmers' WUAs for future maintenance, preceded by appropriate legislative changes, public
outreach, formation of WUAs and major training; (e) completion of the remaining Kandi low dams,
including R&R and the monitoring and evaluation of all R&R activities; (f) completion of the pilot
telecommunication system, already under procurement; (g) sanction and staff the faculty positions at
PIMTI; (h) completing the balance work of canal lining, modernization of structures and surface
drainage; and (i) completing and commissioning four mini-hydel stations already in an advanced
stage of construction. GOP has furnished a program for the balance activities. Based on that and
discussions with the project officers a POP has been prepared which is presented as Attachment I to
s Annex F contains GOP's letter indicating disagreement with this view. The current assessment is a downgrading of
the initial assessment during the ICR mission and, in particular, reflects persistence, to date, of GOP's policies
for provisions of free water and power to farmers, and inadequate current funding of maintenance. Continued
discussion with GOP on such policies is intended, and could result in eventual satisfactory outcome of the project
if GOP's current policies are altered and sustainability is reassessed as likely.



11
the Aide-Memoire. The above listing has been reordered and structured to reflect the most pressing
priorities.
31.       Operation and management of the canals and drains improved by the project would be
undertaken as a part of ID responsibilities for irrigation throughout the State. Standards of O&M
should be improved as a result of the POM Manual being finalized by the Canal Directorate of ID.
32.       Any plans for further extension of the Kandi Canal should carefully review the status of
private tubewells in the proposed command area. In view of the growth in the number of tubewells it
may not be economically viable to further extend the canal. Consideration should rather be given to
the possibility of expanding the area served by the existing canal to the south of the
Hosiarpur/Dasuya road, which would increase the benefits from project investments.
33.       More fundamentally, GOP should thoroughly reassess its irrigation and water resources
management policies and strategy in the light of the India WRM Sector Review, also reviewing
experience in other states and countries as it does this.  Mexico, Andhra Pradesh, emerging
developments in Orissa, and likely developments in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh are amongst the
experiences that could be reviewed by GOP. On that basis, a new water sector and irrigation policy
and implementation strategy could be prepared by Punjab as a basis for its future water sector
development. For the Bank, assuming willingness of GOP to address such issues, consideration
should be given to making annual strategy review and post-project supervision missions to Punjab for
the next several years, to help Punjab in its strategy formulation and implementation. Emphasis in
such missions should be on assisting Punjab with its strategy development, with mission strength in
strategy and policy formulation, institutions, community organization, agriculture, and water
resources management. In any case, completion of R&R actions should be followed up, with
missions to assist GOP to complete its R&R actions under the project.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34.   The Need for a Strategy and Broader Conceptual Framework. The most fundamental
inadequacy, driving several others (see below), was the lack of an underlying strategy and policy for
Punjab's irrigation and water resources sector. The India WRM sector work (1998), and even the
earlier India ISR sector work (1991), and the Bank's WRM policy paper (1993) were not available at
the time of project design and appraisal. It is understandable why neither the Bank nor GOP
attempted to develop a coherent strategy for Punjab at a time when sector work was neither available
nor particularly appreciated, but, with today's knowledge and hindsight, the result of inadequate
sector analysis, in terms of limited policy and institutional development objectives and achievements,
and inadequate attention to sustainability are evident.
35.   From the perspective of today's sector strategy for India's water resources and irrigation
sector (refer para. 9 and footnote reference to the 1998 India WRM Sector Review) the major gap
was in thinking through of the combined features required to create a "virtuous circle" of features
enabling self-sustaining sector development. These include: creation of water user associations for
participation in irrigation management and for full handling of O&M of at least watercourses and



12
minor canals; raising of water charges to at least cover O&M; raising funding levels for maintenance
works as required for fully sustaining the irrigation and drainage systems; retention of water charges
to be used by the WUAs and the service agency to self-finance O&M and related administration to
full required levels; simultaneous strengthening of agricultural extension; progressive but ultimately
major institutional restructuring, decentralization and commercialization of the ID to create a modem
service agency and other institutions in water allocation, regulation and pricing; and, addressing of
overall water resources management issues including development of institutions, policies,
legislation and technical capability to comprehensively plan, manage and allocate the state's water
resources in a holistic fashion, including water quality as well as quantity, groundwater as well as
surface water, and based on hydraulic (basin/sub-basin) units.
36.    The Need for Sustainable Water Pricing and O&M. Self-evidently, the sustainability of
the project financed improvements in irrigation and drainage will depend on adequate O&M. This in
turn requires fully secure and adequate financing.  Studies in irrigation show that farrners are
prepared to pay, so long as they receive the services for which they have paid. Water charges need
raising to cover at least the full required costs of O&M and related administration. Money collected
should remain with the farmer organizations and the ID, rather than being paid over into a
government treasury9.  Properly estimated water charges also have the important benefit of
encouraging irrigation water use in an efficient and careful manner, with consequent savings in water
use and reduction in drainage water. GOP's announcement in 1997 of a policy to provide surface
irrigation water free, and also power for groundwater pumping free, placed Punjab in the unique
situation in India of going significantly backwards.  Even before that, there had been little
progression towards adequate funding of maintenance. The situation can only get worse with the
elimination of water charge revenues. On this count alone, therefore, the project investments are
unsustainable.
37.    The Need for Participatory Irrigation Management and Water User Associations.
Development of grass-roots institutions for irrigation management has been identified as part of the
WRM's irrigation service reform strategy and a core part of the virtuous circle. Ongoing efforts in
states such as Andhra Pradesh, and in countries such as Mexico, are demonstrating the benefits that
can be achieved. This was not part of the original project design, and minimal attempts have been
made by GOP in this direction.  The problems of inadequate attention to maintenance of
watercourses, supposedly the responsihility of farmers, can be directly attributable to the absence of
grass-roots institutions. Greater equity in water distribution, likely expansion of effectively irrigated
area, and better participation in and suitability of main system operational plans and irrigation
supplies are all potential areas of further benefit, currently foregone for lack of farmer institutions.
WUAs also provide an institutional base for further evolution in activities, including in water
resources management, groundwater regulation and management by local communities, and other
link-ups with development actions such as credit, machinery services, land levelling and on-farm
development works.
9 The desirability of water charges to be levied according to the quantity of water used is effectively built into the
warabandhi system of irrigation used in the Punjab. Each farmer is allowed to draw water for a given time which
is proportional to his land holding and water distribution is therefore virtually on a volumetric basis.



13
38.   The Need for Institutional Development. Project design was quite limited in these respects.
Institution strengthening components-the "software" aspects of the project, including training,
studies and computer and communications facilities-were all appropriate, but did not address the
priority issues in restructuring and strengthening the ID for the modem-day needs of water resources
management and high performing and sustainable service delivery (refer WRM sector reports). Even
the limited objectives under the project were largely not achieved, due to a strong bias in the ID and
GOP to focus on civil works components. For future projects agreement should be reached on a
time-bound institutional development program agreed before project commencement, but this itself
needs to be based on a strategic vision for the sector's development and the evolution of sector
institutions required.
39.   The Need for Integration with Agricultural Development. This was largely left out of
project design, in implementation by the borrower, and in Bank supervision. Significant further
benefits may have been possible if agricultural intensification had also been tackled, and if
agricultural aspects had also been examined during project design. All recent water sector and
irrigation projects include an agricultural intensification program, with significant benefits beginning
to show.
40.   The Need for Coordination between Government Agencies. In order to maximize project
benefits, good coordination is required, not only within water resources agencies, but also with
government and university agencies involved in agriculture, livestock and forestry. These agencies
need to be fully involved in aspects such as agricultural research, extension and watershed protection
in order to maximize water use efficiency and ensure project sustainability.
41.   The Need for Multi-disciplinary Bank and Borrower Staff Inputs. The project appraisal
and supervision missions were well staffed with engineering and R&R expertise, and engineering
aspects of the project have been largely well handled by the borrower and Bank alike, with close
attention to R&R also by the Bank. Bank skills in other areas-notably in sector strategy, economics,
community organization, agriculture, environment, finance and institutions were less prevalent, and
contributed to limited attention and achievements in these areas. The borrower had even less focus
on these areas, with ID staff being almost exclusively in civil works engineering.



14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
V9)          09)                        V9 ()
Macro policies                                                              7 
Sector policies                                               7=
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender issues                                                               7 
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                          I
Public sector management             =/
Private sector development                                                   /
Other (specify)                      7            L                         F g
B. Project sustainability 0         Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance             Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                     m I
Preparation assistance                         7 
Appraisal                                                   F  
Supervision                                    F71
I liglhly
D. Borrower performance           Satisiactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(1-)w)(1-i)           (1-14)
Preparation                                    F71          F
Implementation                                 7m
Covenant complianice               L                        F  ]
Operation (if applicable)                                   F  1
Iighly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of outcome        Satistactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(f-i4)   (l-9)       ~~~(1-9)        (63)
a NB. As discussed in the text, the ratings of uLnlikely sustainability and unsatisfactory outcome are current ratings
reflecting current pricing policies and O&M funding, as well as need for follow-on in several areas including
R&R. GOP has recorded its disagreement witlh these ratings (Appendix F). Alterations of the relevant GOP
policies would provide grounds for reassessing the current rankings of sustainability and outcome.



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                 Purpose                   Year of                    Status
approval
Preceding operations
I .Punjab Irrigation Project   Irrigation system improvement      1979       Completed (June 1986)
(Cr. 889-IN)
2.Kandi Area Development  Integrated area development             1980         Completed (December 1988)
Project (Ln. 1897-IN)       including forestry, check dams
and soil conservation, irrigation
and supporting components.
Followving operations
1.Punjab Water Resources    State water resources planning     Processing      Project appraised, but negotiations
Management Project          and rural water supply and           Halted        and further processing were
(proposed)                  environmental sanitation for 600                   suspended when GOP announced
villages.                                         its policy of free water and
electricity for agriculture.
2. Watershed Hills Project   Reverse environrmental               1990                    Completed
(Cr.2 100/Ln.3175)          degradation of the Himalayan
foothills; improve agricultural
production; reduce flood
hazards caused by land
degradation; and introduce
systems for sustainable
management of common
properties.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                    Date planned         Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                                  October, 1986               October, 1986
Initial Project Brief                                      N.A.             December, 1986
Preparation                                     1986 and 1987               1986 to 1989
Appraisal                                       October, 1987               Junc, 19891/
Negotiations                                               N.A.             November I to 8, 1989.
Letter of development policy (if applicable)               N.A.                        N.A.
Board presentation                                         N.A.             Dccember 14, 1989
Signing                                                    N.A.             February 9, 1990
Effectiveness                                              N.A.             March 13, 1990
Project completion                              March 31, 1998 (original)    July 31, 1998
July 31, 1998 (revised)
Loan closing                                    March 31, 1998 (original)    July 31, 1998
July 31,1998 (revised)    I
I/ Due to delays in preparation and in particular to lack of agreemcnt betwecn GOP and the Bank on the TOR for the North-
West India Drainage Study, adequacy of which had bcen made a condition for appraisal by the Bank.



16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
($ million)
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99
Appraisal         12.0    19.0    37.0    58.0    83.0    106.0   129.0   160.0   165.0
estimate
Formal revision'    8.0    11.8    21.3    37.3    62.3    89.3    116.3   141.6   145.3
(Dec. 1991)
Adjusted           8.3     12.3    22.1      38.8    64.8    92.8    120.9   147.2   151.0   151.0
profile'
Actual             8.0     11.8    21.3    39.5    48.6        71.4    95.7    125.3    142.4   151.0
Actual as % of     67       62       58       68       59       67       74       78       85       92
SAR estimate
Actual as % of     100     100       100      106      78       80       82       88       98      104
revised estimate
Actual as %/ of    96       96       96       102      75       77       79       85       94      100
ladjusted profile
lDate of final                          February 3. 1999l
ldisbursementl
l/The revision included canceling of the IBRD loan (Ln.3144-lN) in the sum of $ 15 million and SDR3.7 millionl
($4.72 million) of the credit (Cr.2076-IN).
2' Mission estimate based on the formally revised disbursement profile. Due to exchange rate changes the total value of
the credit, net of cancellations in $ equivalent is $151.04 million, cancellations $4.90 million. The Credit was fully
disbursed on February 3, 1999.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key implementation indicators in    SAR Indicators    Modified       Cumulative Achievement to
SAR/President's Report                            Indicators"           July 31, 1998
1. Lining of watercourses (km)                   4,000            5,000                        5,184
2. Canal lining (km)                               816            1,242                        1,072
3. Canal Regulating Structures (No.)               400              315                          295
(a) Cross-regulators (No.)                          80               95                           88
(b) Head regulators (No.)                          150              173                          161
0 Escapes (No.)                                     90               26                           26
(d) Autoguage recorders (No.)                       80               21                           20
4. Communication Network (%)                        100             100                          22/
5. Kandi Canal:
- Main Canal (km)                                  15.6            15.6                         15.6
- Distributaries/Minors (km)            Unspecified                49.2                         49.2
- Watercourses (km)                     Unspecified               610.8                        610.8
6. Kandi Low Dams:
(a) Dams (No.)                                       9                9                          6.6
(b) Distribution System (No.)                        9                9                          6.0
7. Kandi tubewells:
(a) Drilling (No.)                                 245              320                          320
(b) Development (No.)                              245              320                          314
 Pump house/D-tank (No.0)                         245              320                          294
(d) Distribution system (No.)                      245              320                          284
(e) Energization (No.)                             245              320                          233
8. Surface Drains:
- Re-sectioning existing drains (km)              1,643           1,831                        2,006
- New Link Drains (km)                             795              126                           22
- New Toe Drains (km)                              519                0                            0
- Bridges (No.)                                    595              212                          202
- Structures (No.)                                2,670             562                          548
9. Sub-Surface Drainage Schemes (No.)               41               11                            4
10. Studies (No.)                                    9                9                            3
11. Computers (No.)                     Unspeciticid     Unspecified                              34
12. PIMTI
(a) Building (No.)                                   6                6  98% complete
(b) Faculty (No.)                                    8                8  Faculty staff placement
positions partially achieved.
13. Mini Hydel Stations (No.)                       10                4  Civil works Electrical and
mechanical equipment
procured. Installation and
testing to be completed.
14. Administrative Building (No.)                    I                1  I completed.
" It is noted that the SAR intentionally kept physical quantities of a number of project components flexible.
2/ 20 fax machines procured and installed, 23 VSAT-based units under procurement by closing date.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation: Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Studv             at appraisal/redefined                 Status                                                          Impact of study
I.Conjunctive use of   Expenmentation and           Initiated under Phase I project,  The studies were generally useful in that they created a degree ofawareness ofand insight into water quality
brackish/saline      demonstration of water use      advanced under Phase 11, but    issues in Punjab irrigated farming, including the geographical and depth distribution of water quality.
groundwater with      procedures for conjunctive use   would require further work.  Recommendations were derived to guide tubewell development by individual farmers. Through the studies a
canal water.         of groundwater of different                                    useful linkage was established between the DWR and the PAU. Further studies are needed on mixing of eanal
quality with surface water                                    and groundwater.
supplies.
2. Evaluation ofdnp   Confimiation of investigations   /as above)                   The studies yielded some useful results on the water saving potential of drip irrigation and investment costs.
irrigation           into the technical and financial                               However, due to lack of any extension component under the project, there was no follow-up through pilot
feasibility of using drip                                     demonstration. Overall the potential for drip irrigation in Punjab appears limited to horticultural application, such
imrrgation in Punjab                                          as in vineyards. It is generally considered too costly for small famiers and Govemment is encouraging its use with
horticulture.                                                 a subsidy.
3.Comparison of      The study N as to include the   (as above)                     Field trials indicate great water saving potential of farming on ridges rather than border flood irrigation (>25%
performance of       continuation of a wide range                                   savings recorded). However, wide application would require a revolution" in Punjab's agricultural machinery
existing and         of experimentation v ith                                       use, which is not in sight. The studies have done little to address major problems on paddy and yield decline in
improved irrigation    irrigation and related                                       cotton.
practices.           agricultural practices.
4. Skimming fresh     Experimentation to determine    (as above)                    The experimental work initiated under Phase I was not continued as expected at appraisal. In view ofthe
water overlying      appropriately designed                                         progressive shortage of irrigation water in SW Punjab, further work on this topic is urgently required. The study
saline groundwater.   skimming well devices                                         included collection and analysis of water samples from 431 piezometric tubes, but on the basis of these samples no
applicable to groundwater                                     site was found suitable for skimming of fresh water.
conditions in south-west
Punjab.
5. Groundwater       Expansion of limited earlier    (as above)                     Investigations to determine the three dimensional distribution of water quality were initiated under the first project
quality distribution    investigations into the three-                              (Phase I) on 4,500 ha in the Mukatsar area. Under the second phase these investigations were expanded over all
in south-westem      dimensional distribution of                                    four south-westem districts of Punjab through making use of the purpose-built groundwater monitoring network
Punjab.              groundwater quality,                                           established under the project (Table 7, Item 8). The plan under Phase 11 was to install 180 piezometric sets and
comprising all areas with                                     420 single piezometric tubes, of which respectively 166 and 265 have been installed. The balance will be installed
occurrence of saline                                          so a to provide a 25 km2 grid.
groundwater in south-west
Punjab.



19
Purpose as defined
Studv             at appraisal/redefined                Status                                                         Impact of study
6. Study of artificial   To devise means by which to    The study was substantially  The study was not well conceived and its implementation was even less convincing. Instead of experimenting
recharge on surface    enhance the recharging effect    reduced in terms of       on a 4,000 m long reach of master drain, the study was carried out using a stretch of only 25 m. Considering the
drainage systems.    of new and rehabilitated       experinental activities and    reduction in available waste water through system  modemization, the only substantial source for recharge in
surface drains for the recharge    would require follow-up   drains would be rainstorm run-off. The best way of hamessing this run-off(or part of it) would appear to be
of storm and waste water run-    experimental work.         through regulating structures installed at strategic points in the drainage system. These would be managed such
off.                                                         that mun-offcould be safely retained for groundwater recharge, while not impairing flood evacuation. An
experimental installation should be considered. A detailed report on the study has been prepared and is being
sent to World Bank.
7. Hydrological      Field studies of the hydrology    The Study was substantially  The studies are closely linked with the project component of sub-surface drainage which envisaged the
Study of Existing    of waterlogged depressions to   simplified and is partially  reclamation of about 5,000 ha of waterlogged land comprising 41 sites (depressions). During implementation
Waterlogged          determnine water balance as a  complete.                     only 12 sites were identified, of which 4 were taken up on a pilot scale, thereby expanding on a pilot effort
Depressions.         pre-condition for the design of                              already initiated during Phase 1. In each of the 4 schemes a grid of piezometers were installed and water depth
reclamation measures.                                        and quality observations conducted. Total affected area in the 4 pilot schemes was 1,120 ha, of which 1,053 ha
are reported reclaimed. Of this about 610 ha were under paddy, one year after reclamation. Water balance
detenninations as envisaged in the SAR were not undertaken for lack of sufficient data base.
8. Establishment of    Improvement of the           Completed.                     A purposes-built network of groundwater observations points and additional piezometers for water quality
a purpose-built      groundwater data base to                                      monitoring has been partially compileted through installation of 574 piezometers (against planned provision of
groundwater level    identify and monitor saline and                               1,050). The total network provides for observation points at 25 km2 spacing. Originally it was planned that
monitoring network.   waterlogged areas in south-                                 25% of the piezometres should be fitted with automatic water Ievel recorders (AWLR), but in the event only 20
west Punjab.                                                 were so equipped since DWR considers manual observation points a better solution, also with a view to
maintenance requirements. Depth and water quality measurements are conducted annually in June and October
and published in a yearbook format. Besides this network, managed by DWR, the AD is maintaining a state-
wide network consisting of 650 observation points Attempts to merge the two networks and to conduct joint
observations have not been reported.
9. Monitoring of     To establish and implement a    On-going but requiring       The SAR rightly attached great importance to a comprehensive study of the long-term performance of canal and
seepage losses from    long-term program of         upgrading.                    watercourse lining. Emphasis thus was on institutionalizing a performance monitoring program, comprising 70
lined canals and     monitoring the effectiveness of                              canal and 130 watercourse seepage measurements per year, with measurements repeated every five years in a
watercourses.        canal and watercourse lining in                              sample of some 600 selected watercourses and a number of canals to be specified during implementation. This
reducing seepage losses.                                     program with hindsight appears to have been grossly over-designed, as the measurements actually carried out
fall very short of expectations. It is also evident that a systematic long-term program has yet to be conceived.
Monitoring so far reported is fragmentary and not well documented. An attempt is made to summarize the
results obtained in Appendix B.



20
Study              Purpose as defined at               Status                                                       Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
10. Improving the     The project was to support a  None of the proposed activities  Two of the proposed activities were completed by the BBMB from their own resources. However there was only
Operational Capacity   set of activities under an   were implemented.            partial interest in soliciting support for implementation of a "Decision Support System for Water Delivery
of the BBMB.          Action Plan prepared by the                                Control". The proposed activities included advanced modeling of water and power operations as well as training
BBMB as a first stage in                                  in model application, including study tours abroad for senior BBMB officials. Although of great significance, the
upgrading its operations                                   proposals were not actively pursued by the BBMB and faltered mainly due to petty administrative obstacles.
through adoption of state-of-
the-art methods.
I1. Application of    This activ ity provided for the    Partially implemented. Need    The proposal and agreed activities did not progrcss beyond the procurement of a total of 34 computers and some
Computer              application of advanced       for follow-up.               software. The existing DOI Computer Centre is struggling with shortages of staff, funds and office space. The
Technology            methods of irrigation water                                situation is expected to improve when the Centre is shortly going to be moved to the new administrative building
conveyance and delivery                                    complcted under the project. However, due to the failure to implement the communications component of the
management using an                                        project, no timeframe has been set within which a breakthrough in computer-aided irrigation system management
improved decision making                                   would be achieved.
process based on analysis of
sets of field data
communicated via a VSAT-
based communication system.
Another intended application
was in (CAD).
12. Study of the      As implied in the study title.  Not completed.             Agreement was reached at negotiations that the results of the Study would be fumished as early as December
Regional Options for                                                             1992, followed by an action plan. Although a local consulting company engaged in the study came up with
a long-term solution                                                             proposals they were not acceptable to the Bank because of intemational implications on water rights, nor was the
to the drainage                                                                  response from the 3 neighboring states positive. In view of the importance of the subject it is urgently
requirements of                                                                  recommended that the 4 states involved join efforts to forge an acceptable long-term solution.
Punjab, Haryana and
Rajasthan.



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate ($M)                Actual/atest estimate (SM)
Local      Foreign        Total         Local         Foreign        Total
Item             costs        costs                       costs          costs
1. Canal Modernization   43.68        2.39         46.07          59.79          3.15         62.94
2. Watercourse Lining    31.62         1.66         33.28         62.82           1.28        64.11
3. Canal Structures      10.34        0.59          10.94         13.85          0.73          14.58
4. Conununications        3.84         0.41         4.24           0.07          0.01          0.07
5. Surface Drainage      21.80         1.06         22.86         24.44          1.29         25.73
6. Sub-surface Drainage   5.48        0.25          5.73           0.36          0.02          0.38
7. Kandi Canal           24.19         1.23         25.42         25.46           1.34        26.80
8. Kandi Dams            16.06        0.75          16.81         20.64          0.86         21.50
9. Kandi Tubewells       12.12        0.95          13.07         18.72           1.41        20.13
10. Computers                                                     0.03           0.10          0.13
11. Training                                                       1.01          0.08          1.08
12. Studies                                                       0.34           0.09          0.43
13. Building              5.73        1.85          7.58          2.73           0.21          2.93
14. Mini Hydel/ other    19.94        1.27         21.21          5.36           0.34          5.70
Physical Contingencies    14.56       0.79         15.343           0              0            0
Price Contingencies      21.718       2.25         23.968           0              0            0
TOTAL                   231.07       15.44 1   246.51            234.54         10.81        245.35
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate ($M)           Actual/latest estimate ($M)
Source                       ILocal      Ioreign     Total         Local       Foreign     Total
costs      costs                    costs         costs
IBRD/lDA                       149.6       15.4       165.0          139.8         10.8     150.6
GOI/State of Puijab             81.5         -         81.5           94.8          -        94.8
contiibution
TOTAL                          231.I        15.4      246.5          234.6         10.8     245.4



22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
ICR
SAR         Calculated on the basis  Calculated on the basis
of without and with     of the economic value
project farm models       of water (canal and
watercourses lining
onlv
l .            .         .            (ERR %) ....................
Canal lining.                           33                    31                        25
Assuming 50% of lining in areas          -                    21                        14
where seepage can be used by
tubewells.
2.  Watercourse lining.                      20                   29                        23
Assuming 50% of lining in areas          -                    25                        18
where seepage can be used by
tubewells.
3.  Kandi Canal                              20                    16
4.  Kandi tubewells                          15                    10
5.  Kandi Dams                               15                   -5
6.  Above five components                    -                    23                        18
Five components plus drainage            -                    20                        15
investment costs.
Five components assuming only            -                    18                        13
50% seepage saving in saline
areas.
Five components assuming only            -                    16                        I I
50%ho of seepage saving in saline
aareas plus drainage investmenit
costs.



23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
India: Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment        Description of
Agreement   Section      type      status      date         date             covenant              Comments
PA            3.01(a)   01         C                                  GOP to maintain records   In compliance
& accounts adequate to
reflcct financial condition
and operations of the
project
PA            3.01      01         C                                  GOP to audit records,     In compliance
(b)(i)                                                  accounts and financial
statements for cach FY
using independent auditors
acccptable to the
Association & the Bank
PA            3.01      09         C                                  GOP to fumish, not later  In compliance
(b)(ii)                                                 than 9 months after cnd of
cach FY, certificd copies
of financial statenments and
audit report, as requcsted
by the Bank and the
Association
DCA           4.01      (I         C                                  GOP to enable the         In compliance
(a)(iii)                                                Association's
representative to cxamine
the records
DCA           4.0(1(b)   01        C                                  GOP to have the records   In compliance
and accounts audited by
indepcndent auditors
acceptable to thc
Association and fumish to
the Association not latcr
than 9 months aftcr the cnd
of each FY
PA            5.02      05                                            A Anv actioni taken under this In compliance
agirmceint is responsibility
of'Secy. to GOP or persons
designated in writing.
Specimen signaturcs to be
supplied to the Bank
PA            SCH. I,  05                                             Ex Iscept as in part D, goods  In compliance
SECT 1,                                                 to be procured in
PART A                                                  accordance with Guidelincs
'obr procuremcnt under IDA
loans and IDA credits
May 1985)



24
Original     Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment        Description of
Agreement   Section      type      status      date         date             covenant              Comments
PA            SCH 2,  07           C                                  GOP to carry out socio    In compliancc
I a                                                     economic surveys of       Surveys conducted
oustces from Kandi Low    but quality of data
Dam submergence areas as poor
basis for determining
current circumstances and
prefercnces for
rehabilitation
PA            SCH.2,               SOON                               GOP to carry out a        Program conducted
lb                                                      program of rcscttlement of  but not completed by
oustees so that oustees will closure date.
regain their prex ious
standard of livelihood
PA            SCH2    07           CP                                 GOP to encourage           Efforts made
Ic(i)                                                   beneficiaries to provide  withoult success No
land to oustees at fair  land transfers
markct price             occurred. Principle of
rehabilitation
compared to
compensation not
adequately pursued
PA            SCH2    07           CP        31/12/1992               GOP to review with the    Not applicable in
Ic(ii)                                                  Bank the above            view of abovc
arrangements and make
adjustments, as necessary,
after receiving Bank's
commlients
PA            SCH 2    07          CP                                 GOP to carry out          Not complied with in
I d                                                     r esettlement and         some cases because
rehabilitation mcasures set  of delays in
out in sub para (b) and (c)  obtaining forestry
abov c six months prior to   clearance
|  impoundment of each
relev ant dam                                l
PA            SCH2.   I)           ('                                 GOP to carry out civil    In compliance
4a                                                      works in accordancc with
technical specitications
acceptable to the
Association and the Bank
PA            SCH 2 ,  10          (P                                (GOP to compilc annual     No problems
4b                                                      reports of problems, if any, reported
related to technical
standards, and
specifications and remedics
and actions taken as a
result of inspections of civil
works by the Irrigation
Dept; such reports to
remain available to the



25
Original     Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment           Description of
Agreement   Section        type      status      date          date              covenant               Comments
Bank until project
completion
PA             SCH 2,   10           NC                                   GOP shall maintain all     Some maintenance is
5a                                                         canals and facilities above   occurring but
the irrigation outlets     additional 0 & M
included in the project, so   funds are required to
as to function at all times in enable project
accordance with the        facilities to continue
relevant design            to function in accord
specifications             with design
specifications.
PA            SCH 2,   9             CP                                   GOP to carry out a         Study of O & M
5b,                                                        program of performance    funding needs
monitoring, acceptable to   conducted but
the association, for       proposals for
detenmining whether        increased 0 & M
maintenance is adequate,   norms and direct
such program to include    funding not agreed
provision of required funds within project
facilities and staff to the   period. Policy of free
Irrgation Department       water and power
introduced which
reduced available
funds for O & M
Status                                                      Covenant Class
C = Complied with                                           I. Accounts;audit
CD = Compliance aftcr Delay                                 2. Finaticial pertforniance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
PC = Partially Complied                                     3. Hlow and I tfiliation of project funds
NC = Not complied with                                      4. CouHite-parl-t fulnding
SOON = Complied with Partially                              5. Management aspects of project-executing agency
NY'D   Not yet Due                                          Fnrvironnmental covenants
7    liIluntary rcsettlemcent
8. InldigenoIuLIs pcopie
). Monitoring. review and reporting
10 Iplicinitatlion
I I Sectoral /cr-oss sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Scctoi it] or cross sectoral regulatory or other resource
allocation
13. Other



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                Describe and comment on lack of compliance
LOD 4.30 Involuntary Resetlement                  GOP has yet to comply with the OD. At end May 1998
compensation payments had been made on less than
half the area acquired and economic rehabilitation
measures had been initiated or provided to only about
40% of the families. GOP proposals for completion of
R&R are included in the POP.
2.OMS 2.25 Cost Recovery Policy                   GOP present policy of provision of irrigation water and
electricity for pumping free to famiers does not comply
with this OMS which emphasizes the importance of
recovering the full cost of O&M of irrigation schemes.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(S in 'ooo)
Stage of                        Planned                    Revised                   Actual
Project Cycle                                                                                      11
Weeks           $          Weeks          $         Weeks         $
Preparation to                 n.a.          n.a.         n.a.          n.a.      71.1       175.8
Appraisal
Appraisal                      n.a.          n.a.         n.a.          n.a.       1 6       47.4
Negotiations through           n a.          n a.         n.a.          n.a.        6.4       15.6
Board approval
Supervision ( 1)             119           109.5          n.a.          n.a.     150.6      131.5
Completion                                                                         13
TOTAL
Data takeni from supervisioni rcpor-ts. I)ata fromi coiilptitcl  database indicates 106.9 actual staff weeks for
supervisionl



27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                      Number                   Specialized     Implemen-        Develop-
Project Cycle       MXlonth/       Of        Days i       staff skills      tation           ment                 Types of
ycar             ~~~~f'ield
y ear     Persons                  represented        status       objectives             problems
Identlfication           10/86          4           5        Econ,                                          agnculture, soils, water
availability
Preparation              3-4/87         8           15       hiTg.,                                          catchmnent protection in
Drainage lFng.                                  Kandi, need for more work
FEconomist                                     on commnnications,
Fin. Analyst                                   computer, components
3-4 /88        3           12       Img                                             rOUtine In-igatioll and
Engineer,                                      dainiage enginieer-iig
Economi st
10/88          3           7        Irrig.                                          ripar-ian aspccts of drainage
Engineer
D)rainage E ng.
Economist
Thlroughl appraisal      4/89           I           2        Economist                                       Regional drainage,   R &
R ,institutionial
reorganiization
5/89           6           25      hlm)gation                                       R&R ( incCLidingoustee
I nginccnlig.                                  compensation).
(1omputi ig,                                    environmcintal issues, cost
I inanicial                                    recovely, Security, Ripartat
Aiili                                           watcr issucs
l colltilitst
Appraisal through                                                                                            RCduced f'unds availability
Board approval                                                                                               causcd rcduced projcct
scope, including reduced
catclment protection,
commuliications network,
Problems with
compensation c.f:
rehabilitation foroustees
SupcrVtsioll             5/1()0         5           0,          L n ollit .        I               I         Funds allocation delays
I glimiicci.
t2/i)()        2           2        I,Cononlisi           I              I          Procurement of Cement and
Ihng I igiticel                                Junior Engineer's strike
7/91                       2        h I Igaltin           2              2          ILow financial allocation,
ciigiiicctitig                                 low rates ol'disbursement,
transfers / retirement of key
statT, procurement delays,
problems in sanctioning
Designs organization,
Computer and
Communication
Directorates, PIMTI



28
Performance rating
Stage of                      Number                    Specialized      Implemen-        Develop-
Project Cycle        Month!                   Days in      Seilzd          Ipee-            Dvlp
Of        D            staff skills      tation           ment                  Tvpes of
y ear     Persons                  represented         status        objectives             problems
9/92           2            2        Economist.            I               I         persistent retirement and
Frnginecr                                       transfers of staff Persistent
delays in procurement
12/93          3           5        Economist,             2               2         lack of funids and delays in
lrrigation                                      allocation to implementing
Irigineers                                      agencies
5/94           3            4        Irrigation            S               S         Implementation of canal
Eingineers                                      structLres, Communications
netork, PIMlI I slow
12/94          2           5        Irrigation             S               S         (Commu11unications netw ork
Engiicers                                       and lPIMT1 slow
I)ishursenient 34%. of cre(iit
amount alter 5 years
9/95            1           5        Irrigation            S               S         1Progress on)
ingiineer                                       C ommunications nctw ork,
1313MB and PIMTI slow
4-5/96         2            5        IrigationW            S               S          Slow disbursemilent
Engineer,  R                                    Communications network,
& R                                              1313MB and P IM-I-I slow
Spccialist
12/96          2            5       IrTigation             S               S         R & R, IPIMTI,
I ngiiccr,  R                                   Communications activitics
& R.                                            all slow 0 & M lunds Ibr
Specialist                                       Kandi canal not available
7/97           2            5        Ilrigatioln           S               S         PIMTFI, Communications
iingincer.                                      delayed. 0 & M funds for
Kandi canal not supplied.
R. & R                                          Canal structures, cross
SIccialist                                      drainagc and mini hydel
stations delayed
5/98                                In igation             S               S         86 %, disbursement. Credit
Iigmiiccl.                                      extcnsion approved. 6 of9
dams completed
R & R                                           PIMT1,Communication,
Specialwil                                      computers all have
problems
7/ )X          2            5       hz lrmgatimon          S               S         O&M, computer funding,
Imigincer.                                      Communications all
incomplete, lack of PIMTI
P. & P.                                         staff-ing.
Siccl ahlst
Completion               7/)9            3           2X       I colmlomi t      ,                              Sustainability an issue
lrilgamioi aowing to inadequate O&M,
I mginiccr                                      unresolved issue of
Agi onmisl                                      maintenance of lined water
courses and, especially, the
just announced govemment
policy of free water and
electricity for agriculture.



29
Appendix A
India
Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project (CR. 2076-IN)
Implementation Completion Report iMlission
June-July 1998
Aide-Memoire
Introduction
1.         An FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission consisting of J.H.Weatherhogg
(FAO/CP Mission Leader/Economist), D. Kraatz (Irrigation/Drainage Engineer, Consultant), and R. Chisholm
(Agronomist, Consultant) visited India from June 24 to July 8 1998. to prepare an Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) on the above project. The mission's visit coincided with the final supervision of the project by
Mr. M. M. Shah, World Bank Task Manager and Mr. I.U.B. Reddy (Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Specialist). This Aide-Memoire is based on discussions with the staff of the Departments of Irrigation and
Agriculture (ID and AD), the Punjab State Tubewell Corporation (PSTC). the Punjab Energy Development
Authority (PEDA), and the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) at Ludhiana and the Bhatinda Agricultural
Research Station. The mission also carried out a programme of field visits to the Kandi and Talwara areas in
the eastern part of the State and the south-western areas including Bhatindah and Ferozepur which included
discussions with farmers and local staff of the concerned government agencies. A number of briefing
documents prepared for the mission by the project staff have also been very helpful in provision of data on
implementation and impact of the project. Finally, the mission presented its findings and preliminary
conclusions summarized in the draft Aide-Memoire at the wrap-up meeting held on July 6, 1998, which was
chaired by the Principal Secretary, Irrigation and Power, Mr. Bikramjit Singh, and attended by heads of all line
units.
This draft Aide-Memlloir e has been finalized based on the discussions at the wrap-up meeting and it will be
attached to the ICR.
2.         The mission wishes to thank all the agencies and their staff for their time given in the discussions
and the information and opinions provided, and expresses its appreciation for all the assistance and hospitality
received.
Background
3.         Project origin. The project is a further phase of assistance to that provided by the World Bank
for the Punjab Irrigation Project (Cr. 889-IN), as well as a follow-up to the Kandi Watershed Area
Development Project (Ln. 1897-IN).
4.         Project objectives. The project aims at improving the productivity of the existing irrigation
system; poverty alleviation in the most backward region of the state through development of irrigation
facilities; initiation of drainage works, trials and studies to address the problem of rising water table and
its adverse effect on production and the environment; and improving the efficiency and skills of the ID.



30
5.         Covenants were limited and well focused on arrangements for resettlement and rehabilitation;
maintenance of canals and of government programs for catchment protection; dam safety; quality control of
construction; project monitoring; reporting and accounts.
6.         Project organization. ID is responsible for all aspects of implementation except tubewell
installation and watercourse lining, which is undertaken by PSTC, and completion of hydro-electric power
facilities which is under PEDA.
7.         Project implementation started slowly as a result of the poor security situation. In general the
physical components have been implemented in a reasonably timely manner, although somewhat slower than
anticipated at appraisal. Non-civil works implementation has proceeded much more slowly, so that despite a
four month extension a number of such components have been only partially completed.
Mission Findings
8.         Project design involved a range of activities in irrigation and drainage improvement quite widely
spread out in the State. The project was intended to support priority investments included in the Eighth Five
Year Plan (8FYP - 1992/1997) and was dimensioned to be within the capacity of the implementation agencies.
In addition to this 'core program' the project had a degree of flexibility for possible inclusion of additional
components in canal modernization; hydro-power in the Upper Bari Doab; combination of the Bikaner
(Rajasthan feeder) and Eastern Canals; installation of mini-hydel units where feasible; and development of lift
irrigation in areas adjacent to the Sutlej/Yamuna Link Canal.
9.         Project results. Overall project performance was slower than anticipated at appraisal with more
satisfactory implementation of the civil works components than those aimed at improving institutional or
operational efficiency. The results under each of the main components were as set out in the following
paragraphs.
10.        Watercourse lining. The Project implemented a total of 5,175 km of watercourse lining, thereby
exceeding the SAR target of 4,000 km as well as the revised target of 5,000 km set in 1995. All watercourse
lining was focused on areas underlain by saline groundwater or in waterlogged areas. Except for some trial
reaches where semicircular section was used, all watercourses were lined in rectangular section in brick with
the invert plastered. Generally the works are in good condition and farmers have responded well to the
beneficial effects, in particular the saving of water losses. Tail endears who were earlier deprived of their
equitable share are now getting reliable water, Lifting devices used by some of these tailenders are no longer
required. Extensive field investigations have shown that on average close to 20% of water flowing into the
watercourses is saved by lining, which generally has been done over about 70% length of a water course.
11.        Since the lined watercourses are supposed to be maintained by the beneficiaries in accordance
with the Irrigation Act, the government is not providing any funds for O&M of watercourses. On the
recommendation of the earlier Bank missions, the lined watercourses are being formally handed over to the
beneficiaries for future maintenance. However, neither the PSTC (implementing agency) nor the Canal
organisation monitors whether the beneficiaries are maintaining the watercourses properly or not. Current
status of the watercourses lined during Phase I project indicates that relevant provisions of the Irrigation Act
need to be strictly enforced through close monitoring to ensure sustainability of the benefits derived from lined
watercourses.
12.        Canal lining. Under this component a total of 816 km of canals comprising branches,
distributaries and minors were to be lined. Those lying in saline groundwater and waterlogged areas were



31
selected for lining. The SAR target was revised to 1,242 km in 1995 of which 1,093 km could be completed
by the extended closing date. Works visited by the mission were in excellent condition and achievements are
commendable particularly in view of very short closure periods available for construction (21 days in Abohar
branch canal). All lining was done in brick laid on 250 micron LDPE film. The lining work also comprised
earth embankment within the original canal section due to reduction in cross sectional area of lined canal as
well as raising of some canal bridges. The component's impact has been estimated from seepage
measurements to amount to about 6% saving of total volume of flow against unlined canals. As a result, tail
distributaries and minors are now receiving their equitable share of water which is evident through intensified
cropping. By the same token, the build up of groundwater to critical levels is reduced substantially, as
indicated by monitoring and evaluation. In addition the lined canal systems have become better manageable in
terms of operation as well as maintenance. However, it is important to see that these benefits are not lessened
by providing direct outlets to watercourses on branch canals (observed during field visit to lower Abohar
branch canal), which can lead to inequitable and wasteful conditions. It is advisable to conduct field studies to
determine the rugosity coefficient of the lined canal not only to confirm the assumptions made in designing the
lined section but also for planning future such lining works.
13.        Modernization of Canal Regulating Structures. The original SAR target of 400 structures to
be modernized was reduced to 315, consisting of 95 cross regulators, 173 head regulators, 26 escapes and 21
auto gauge recorders. By project closure all of these structures were reported completed. Most of them were
installed in conjunction with lining of canals. The deviation from the SAR target was mainly due to a reduced
number of auto recorders. This corresponds closely to the under-achievement of the planned modernization of
communication system (paras. 3.27 & 3.28) and computerized monitoring system (para 3.29). Therefore,
while the structural modernization, especially of cross regulators, was done to high engineering standards
(despite the imposition of short canal closure periods), the full impact of the program on improved flow
regulation could not be generated. This will occur only when the necessary software, modem communication
and computerized monitoring system have been installed and integrated into the overall canal operational
system. Nevertheless, the impact of modernization of the regulating structures is clearly evident in terms of
more efficient canal operation and reduction in water lost through escapes in the earlier 'kari' system of
regulation.
14.        Lining of canals and wvatercourses has markedly increased water availability. The SAR assumed
such water Nwould enable expansion and /or intensification of irrigation for traditional crops. However, the
benefits to farmers have been realized in practice by enabling them to switch from traditional cotton, maize
and oilseed crops to paddy, particularly wvhere groundwater quality is good and canal irrigation can be
supplemented. The increased availability of water has coincided with insect devastation of the cotton crop by
Heliothis spp insects, resulting in even greater financial pressure to change crop rotations. The net effect of
lining on losses to groundwater is that canal lining could well be self defeating, since prevention of leakage
from canals may be offset by greater infiltration from paddy areas.
15.        Drainage improvement. The project's surface drainage component was focused on improving
drainage of about 200,000 ha of waterlogged area in 4 districts of SW Punjab. The original SAR target of
1,693 km of master drains to be reconditioned, 795 km of new link drains and 519 km of toe drains, was
revised in 1996 to 1,831 km of reconditioning of drains and only 126 km of new drains. Against this revised
target, actual achievement by the closure date was 1914 km and 54 km respectively. Toe drains connecting
the canal side borrow pits have not been implemented since they were not found to be necessary. Five
draglines procured under the project have proved to be very useful for maintenance of the drains. Associated
with drain excavation was the construction of some 3000 structures, mainly bridges as per SAR. Because of a
much reduced length of new drains, this number was reduced to 212 bridges and 562 other structures. Of
those, the project completed 199 bridges and 541 other structures. Some of the bridges are replacement of low



32
level pipe crossings (Irish bridges) which used to obstruct flow in the drainage channel and other structures,
mainly canal and water course crossings.
16.        The drastic reduction in new drains was due to: (i) unexpected resistance by farmers to give up
required land for construction; and (ii) the reconditioning of the existing drains was reported to be more
effective in inducing improved drainage than originally expected. When reconditioning of old drains started
to reduce waterlogging, farmers gradually reclaimed the land for cropping and often installed shallow
tubewells for irrigation. Such groundwater exploitation had the effect of further lowering of water table and
thereby reducing necessity of new drains.
17.        While the facilities provided under the project are well constructed and maintained, their full
potential can only be derived when supplemented by a tertiary drainage system. This is far from complete
since the farmers are willing to dig field drains only where direct benefits are visible. Benefits of new bridges
and replacement of Irish bridges are clearly seen in terms of better communication links now available to
farmers and reduction in flow obstruction.
18.        Benefits from surface drainage in terms of watertable reduction are evident over an area of
possibly 100,000 ha, although dramatic effects on crop yield are limited to small areas. Average yield
benefits calculated over 1991-97 appear small, however several more seasons' monitoring data will be
required to establish true benefits. Nevertheless the investments have probably captured significant non
quantifiable benefits through reduction in flooding over the past three wetter than normal seasons.
Government has recently introduced incentives for farmers to sink shallow tubewells to make use of the upper
sweet water layer in the saline groundwater zone and that is expected to improve the situation. The impact of
improved surface drainage on relief from flood damage to properties and standing crops, which could be
sizeable during heavy storm periods, has not been evaluated.
19.        Sub-Surface Drainage. As per the SAR, the project was to provide horizontal sub-surface
drainage in 41 low lying waterlogged pockets covering a total area of 5,000 ha, as a pilot exercise using
trenching and pipe laying equipment. The project identified only 12 pockets (the reduction in pockets is
reported to be due to a fall in groundwater levels) of which 4 pockets covering a total waterlogged area of
about  1100 ha were taken up on a pilot scale. Trenching and pipe laying equipment was not procured.
Instead, these 4 pilot schemes were designed such that surface drains were used to collect water in the deepest
central part from where it was evacuated using a pump and open channel leading to another sump by the side
of the nearby Sirhind Feeder canal from where it was again pumped and discharged into the canal. There is no
conclusive performance evaluation available, but it appears that this method of reclamation is overly costly in
terms of capital as well as running cost.
20.        The benefits from subsurface open drains connected to sumps for pump drainage appear useful
but are limited to small areas. Although the costs of construction, operation and maintenance appear excessive
for field crops, they are lower than those for full underground drainage. The solution identified is an
appropriate one, given the relatively low value of products and the need to prevent complete loss of the areas
involved in an area of land scarcity and poverty of farmers. The cost has also to be weighed against
compensation for the farmers who have to leave the land fallow because of waterlogging, as per the recent
government decision.
21.        Kandi canal. The project envisaged construction of about 15.6 km of Kandi canal in patches out
of total length of about 59 km, the rest having been completed prior to the project. It also envisaged
construction of several cross-drainage structures and the distribution system. The construction activities
suffered a serious setback due to unprecedented floods in 1995 followed by heavy floods again in 1996 which
caused widespread damage to the partially completed canal system. The damaged works have been repaired



33
and the entire system including the distribution network has been completed in March 1998. The entire canal
system including the watercourses are lined and the construction quality is very good. The watercourses have
been formally handed over to the beneficiaries for future maintenance. The CCA under the canal system is
19,867 ha out of which the irrigation potential utilized in 1997 to 1998 is 10,619 ha, including areas under
irrigation from private and PSTC tubewells.
22.        The Kandi canal is located at the foot of Shiwalik hills and crosses numerous flashy streams
which makes it very vulnerable to floods. The canal works suffered heavy damage due to floods thrice during
the construction period. There are several flood embankments upstream of the canal system which if not
properly maintained can add to the vulnerability of the canal system. During the 1995 floods, one such flood
bank breached causing extensive damage to the canal system. At present no O&M funds are provided for the
completed canal system and the funds provided for upkeep of the flood banks are meager. Adequate funds for
O&M of the canal system as well as for the flood banks and upper catchment protection need a high priority to
ensure the sustainability of the project benefits.
23.        Benefits from this investment are difficult to calculate since no consolidated data on prior
investments in private tubewells in the command area are included in the SAR and were not available to the
mission. Of the approximately 16,000 ha of net command area, estimates of tubewell irrigated land developed
up to 1998 vary from 4,000 to perhaps as much as 12,000 ha. It would be advisable to ascertain the actual
area under tubewell irrigation not only for judicious water planning of the commissioned canal system but also
for examining the techno-economic feasibility of future extension of the canal. Most of the area beyond the
end of the existing canal appears to have been developed already and the potential new land for development
appears to be limited to areas from about 20 km to 40 km from the river diversion. Extension of the canal
would need to be very carefully considered in terms of net economic benefits. Nevertheless, the availability of
water from canal irrigation over the existing canal reach will provide groundwater security in the
predominantly sandy soils where tubewells were depleting groundwater reserves.
24.        Kandi dams. Nine dams were to be constructed and preparatory designs for four dams were to
be completed under the project. Out of 9 dams, 5 dams are completed with irrigation potential of 4,883 ha out
of which the potential utilized during 1997-98 was 1,818 ha. One more dam along with its canal system
(Siswan dam) is in an advanced stage and is expected to be commissioned by the closing date. Another dam
(Jainti dam) under construction is expected to be completed by December 1998. Out of remaining 2 dams,
Patiari dam is in the procurement pipeline and Thana dam is at the design stage. Four dams for which
preparatory designs were to be completed are at the investigation stage. Delay in implementation of this
component can be attributed to the greater than expected time taken in pre-construction activities
(investigations, design, procurement) and to delays in obtaining mandatory clearances from Forest and
Environment Ministry of the GOI. Utilization of irrigation potential developed under the project is delayed
mainly because of the extensive land leveling involved which has to be carried out by the farmers from their
own resources.
25.       In view of the undulating topography in the command areas, most of the dams have used
underground pipe systems for water distribution. Such systems has added to water use efficiency and have
also accelerated irrigation development when compared to the open channel system adopted for dams
completed earlier. Dam designs, which are regularly reviewed by the DSRP, are sound and quality of
construction is generally very good. Since all dams have large flood absorption capacity, they will provide
benefits in terms of flood protection, although such benefits are not quantified. The dams have substantially
enhanced the living standards of the beneficiaries.
26.        Kandi Dams R&R.The seven dams implemented under the project involve the acquisition of
about 500 ha of private land, of which about 440 ha is forested. This has resulted in the physical displacement



34
of 106 families and effected the livelihood of a further 178 families. The R&R implementation is being
carried out in accordance with the agreed policy for R&R laid down in the SAR. Implementation Committees
headed by respective District Collector have been formed for R&R implementation and the representatives of
PAPs participate in these committee meetings. Baseline socio-economic surveys have been carried out for all
dams, but not up to the required standards. Consultants have been appointed for monitoring and evaluation of
the R&R program and their report will be available by end of September 1998. The resettlement and
rehabilitation measures for these affected families is only partly completed and the balance activities are being
carried forward beyond the credit closing date.
27.        Though notable progress has been achieved in R&R implementation during last two years, there
is still a substantial portion of this component yet to be completed for the seven dams implemented under the
project. The balance activities include: (a) completion of land acquisition process and making final payment
for land compensation to the PAPs (about 50 percent), (b) resettlement of 47 families affected by Jainti dam;
(c) economic rehabilitation of about 60% of the affected families. All these activities are required to be
completed with the highest priority and for that purpose adequate funds should be made available to the
implementing agencies.
28.        The combined irrigation and flood control benefits undoubtedly realized from these investments
probably make them highly attractive in both financial and economic terms. However, the benefits to landless
communities in resettlement areas have been delayed and minimal compared to the considerable benefits in
both income and land value realized by downstream landholders. This situation might have been addressed
during design by making willingness of the beneficiaries to share their land with the project affected persons
as selection criteria in siting dams. Of course, according to one of the legal covenants, GOP attempted to
encourage the beneficiaries to provide land to the oustees at fair market price, but the attempts were reported
to be not successful.
29.        Kandi tubewells. The project envisaged development of 240 public tubewells to irrigate about
10.000 ha in the Kandi area where the groundwater is very deep. This target was revised to 320 in 1995 to
provide irrigation to about 20,000 ha. Against this target, the number of wells drilled by the closing date are
319, wells developed are 306 and wells energized and commissioned are about 250. The total irrigation
potential created is about 15.000 ha against which the potential utilized is about 9,000 ha. The tubewell design
is based on scientific investigations and the quality of construction is very good. All the wells have
underground pipe systems for water distribution which adds to the overall efficiency of the system. Although
the wells are basically intended for irrigation, the villagers also use the water for drinking purposes. These
tubewells have proved to be a great boon to the beneficiaries and there is increasing demand for more in the
region.
30.        Delays in implementation of this component can be attributed to: (a) shortage of funds constantly
experienced by the implementing agency, PSTC, due to the lack of any streamlining in fund flow; and (b)
delay in energization of the tubewells by the PSEB. Utilization of irrigation potential is slow since the farmers
have to level land from their own resources before receiving water. Beneficiaries participate in site selection
for the tubewell. However, they are reluctant to take over the tubewells for future maintenance. The financial
burden of O&M of these tubewells will be too heavy for the government to sustain and hence all efforts have
to be made to see that tubewells are properly handed over to farmer organizations responsible for O&M.
31.        Provision of tubewells also raises equity issues, although conflicts appears minimal. Without
suitable provisions for spreading benefits within a community ( see para. 3.21 above), the ID will continue to
face persistent demands for new tubewell developments by those outside existing command areas, possibly
resulting in over exploitation of the resource in localized areas. The benefits to the wider community from



35
improved drinking water supply are clear and tubewells have also resulted in improved opportunities for
women by reducing time involving in carrying water and increase education of children for the same reason.
32.        Mini-Hydel Stations. At appraisal about 10 mini-hydel stations above I MW capacity each were
proposed for implementation by PEDA under the project. In 1995, PEDA awarded contract for four schemes
with a combined capacity of 5.5 MW. all located on Abohar branch canal on which canal structures were
modernized under the project. Due to various delays, of which that caused by the protracted process of getting
excise duty exemption was the most harmful, the four stations are still not completed. The mission visited one
installation in an advanced stage of construction and was convinced of the potential of canal falls for power
production in Punjab. PEDA is currently executing 4 more schemes on Bhatinda branch having potential of
4.3 MW with GOI assistance. Another 20 schemes having a potential of about 20 MW have been recently
allotted to private developers. An additional 66 schemes with a potential of 32 MW are in the pipeline for
implementation through private developers. This component is thus giving an impetus to development of the
power potential available at numerous falls on the canal systems in Punjab.
33.        The economics of the installations appear sound, considering power is generated at locations that
are relatively far from major power lines. Thus savings in power losses are also considerable. The mission,
however, noticed that there is scope for optimizing the design to achieve considerable cost saving if the cross-
regulator-cum-drop structure and the bypass arrangement in the power house complex could be better
integrated instead of duplicated. So far this appears to have been impaired by the fact that ID and PEDA did
not join efforts to the extent possible.
34.        Communications. Most of the existing communication facilities in Punjab's vast irrigation
network is old and defective and therefore inefficient and unreliable. As such it is unfit for any attempted
upgrading of water delivery management through computer use, telemetry, etc. The project, therefore, was to
install an integrated communication system including digital trunk lines leased from DOT.
35.        During the initial five years of implementation, this component, although it originated from Phase
1, was not actively pursued. Only in 1994 was a study entrusted to a consulting firm, but progress was slow
and the final report was received only in 1997. Implementation of its agreed recommendations involved
procurenment of 23 VSAT based telecommunication systems for which ICB procedure was initiated in early
1998. This is still under procurement but there is no prospect of procurement of the system before the project
closure. T he only procurement completed under this component relates to 20 fax machines which have since
been installed. The mission concludes that a valuable opportunity for modernization of canal system
management has thus been lost. Unless rectified soon, the lack of an adequate communication system will
reduce the benefits expected from large investments made in modernization of canal structures under the
project.
36.        Computers. Since 1987, the ID has gradually developed its own computer capability to handle
standard applications in accounting, administration, structural design and hydrology. The Phase II project was
to support provision of computer applications for advanced methods of irrigation water conveyance and
delivery management, using an improved decision making process based on analysis of a large amount of
field data. It was also intended to expand on the use of computer aided design. The progress made in that
direction is limited so far and needs to be accelerated and supplemented by an improved telecommunication
system, which unfortunately is not expected to be completed before the closing date as mentioned in the
previous paragraph. In 1994, 18 computers were procured from project funds and a second batch of 16
computers is to be received shortly. The ID computer center will be given adequate office space in the new
administrative building completed under the project. Further support is needed to strengthen the computer
centre as a vital facility for future computer applications in ID's activities.



36
37.        Improving Operational Capability of BBMB. One of the components of the project aimed at
improving the capability of the BBMB in operation of the system of reservoirs and diversion structures meant
to serve the states of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. That was to be done through technical assistance to
develop a computer model for a decision support system for water delivery control as well as through a study
tour and training. Unfortunately, no progress could be achieved on this component as the consultants were not
hired and the study tour was not organized. Nevertheless, BBMB carried out two studies listed in the SAR in-
house from their own resources. These studies are related to methodologies for predicting stream flows into
the system and development of a decision support system for annual, seasonal and monthly water allocations.
38.        Operation and maintenance. The O&M funds for the canal system are not adequate. A
Committee of Chief Engineers reviewed O&M requirements in-depth and produced a report recommending
revised norms for O&M according to which the O&M funds have to be trebled. Although the government has
accepted enhancement of O&M norms in principle, formal notification has not been issued. Adequate O&M
funds for upkeep of the extensive canal system and related facilities created in Punjab is of prime importance
to ensure sustainability of the benefits. Actual allocation for O&M funds could be needs-based and
determined and prioritized according to institutionalized inspection procedures to be laid down in the POM)
Manual. The manual is in the process of finalization by the ID.
39.        Training. The project was to support establishment of PIMTI through construction of required
buildings (on land available in Amritsar belonging to the Irrigation and Power Research Institute),
procurement of equipment, training and study tours. While the buildings (administrative building, residential
quarters, guest house and hostel) are ready, the staff position is far from satisfactory. Out of 83 posts
provided for this institute, only 18 posts have been sanctioned so far by the govemment. Apart from the
support staff, the key posts filled so far include one Joint Director and five Associate Professors. Pending
filling of the remaining posts, the appointment of retired Chief Engineers as visiting faculty is actively under
consideration. Audio visual aids for training have been procured. Some computer facilities have also been
established and additional 5 computers are expected to be installed shortly. Thirty-four training programs for
the in-service engineers have been conducted so far. Training needs have not yet been systematically
assessed. Such assessments should be done first to design need-based training modules with follow-up studies
of training effectiveness on a regular basis. Moreover, the training program currently in place gives excessive
emphasis to traditional engineering skills for junior staff at the expense of wider issues in water resources
management for all levels of staff. The Govemment should take urgent action in sanctioning and filling up the
key posts without fur-ther delay to make best use of the infrastructure already established under the project.
40.        Studies. Studies conducted by the Punjab Agricultural University were useful in providing
advice on aspects such as conjunctive use. However, they neglected wider problems of low yields in crops
other than rice. Research on drip irrigation of citrus and cotton achieved results but could be considered
rather peripheral to the main problems and somewhat impractical in terms of the capital costs involved for
small farmers. Overall, the agricultural studies were not as useful as those conducted in the first project and
have done little to address major problems of dependence on paddy and yield decline in cotton. The study on
artificial recharge was not well conceived. The Punjab plain areas generally have unconfined aquifers. On
those the build up of groundwater is slow, considering the relatively small volumes of water potentially
available for recharge. The micro study carried out is inconclusive and would need to be followed up by a
study of sufficient scale. The alternative of carrying out a recharge study on a macro scale by providing a
regulating structure across a master drain and closing the gates towards the end of the monsoon to store water
for recharge should be considered. If successful, such regulating structures could be multiplied.
41.        A purpose-built network of groundwater observation points and additional piezometers for water
quality monitoring at 25 km2 spacing was partially completed under the project through installation of about
574 piezometers and 20 automatic water level recorders. Work on completion of this network will continue



37
and will provide a very reliable data base for groundwater monitoring in problem areas. From the available
observations an attempt was made to quantify the affect of project interventions on groundwater levels and
water quality. While monitoring is an important ongoing activity, it appears too early to draw definite
conclusions.
42.        Administrative building. The building constructed at Chandigarh, together with the adjoining
existing building will enable most of the ID offices to be housed at one location. The building is virtually
complete and is expected to be fully utilized shortly.
43.        Borrower performance was generally satisfactory in project implementation, although late
release of funds has constrained project activities and restrictions on staff recruitnment is a problem in
development of the Training Institute. State Government policy changes to allow free electricity and water
supply for irrigation is likely to adversely alfect careful management and use of irrigation water and reduce
the availability of adequate funds required for proper maintenance.
44.        Bank performance has been generally satisfactory in project preparation and appraisal, although
little emphasis was given to agronomic, watershed protection and group formation aspects. Subsequent
careful supervision focused mainly on engineering issues. The Bank was supportive in enabling preparation
of a possible follow-up project.
45.        Donor/borrower relationship has been satisfactory in most respects, with the notable exception
of the significant change in the policy setting caused by the dropping of electricity and water charges.
46.        Implementing agency performance of ID, PSTC and PEDA has been mainly satisfactorv. Slow
progress in planning of the communications and computer components has meant that these components could
not be financed before the credit closing date.
47.        Environmental aspects. The environmental and social impact of the project has been generally
positive, although a more integrated approach to initial design and possibly the inclusion of personnel with
environmental, social and agricultural skills in the design team may have assisted in enhancing the benefits at
little extra cost. Such provisions may also have reduced problems in co-ordination with agencies such as the
Forestry Department which are now constraining the project's resettlement program. Impacts are summarized
in Table 1. Without adequate attention to catchment protection in the Shiwalik hills, the project could
ultimately have negative impacts through concentration of water flows at the Kandi canal. Irrigation activities
in the Kandi region should be properly dovetailed. through close interaction between the ID and the FD, with
the on-going and possible follow-on Bank funded Integrated Watershed Development Project in the state,
which aims at catchment protection in selected locations in the Shiwalik hills. Adequate watertable
monitoring is a key element of future management for all components.
48.        Sustainability. Overall agricultural sustainability has been reduced by neglect of watershed
protection in the Kandi Zone (particularly for Kandi Canal) and failure to address problems of relatively low
yields in crops other than rice in plains areas during design. Initiatives such as canal lining have improved
water supply but groundwater levels are likely to rise in response to paddy culture. Drainage components
appear sustainable and have encouraged further private investment in tubewells for irrigation. Many of the
problems now affecting sustainability could have easily been addressed at design by including the
Departments of Agriculture, Forestry and Environment in the project from the outset and using team members
with social and biological expertise during supervision. Current budgetary norms of O&M are too low to
allow reasonable standards of infrastructure upkeep to be observed. Maintenance of the irrigation and
drainage infrastructure can be better ensured through adequate financial allocations and transfer of
responsibility of O&M of the system to the water users groups.



38
49.        The current situation of inadequate O&M funds for the canal system will adversely affect
sustainability of the vast infrastructure established, unless the O&M norms are revised and adequate funds
provided on a regular basis. Lined watercourses are not maintained by the beneficiaries as required by the
Irrigation Act, nor by the Irrigation Department, and their sustainability is seriously at stake. Kandi Canal
system is highly vulnerable to floods in flashy rivulets crossed by it and requires adequate O&M funds for its
upkeep and the maintenance of flood banks upstream (including vegetative protection) if it is to be sustainable.
Sustainability of the Kandi tubewells is also at stake if their O&M is not transferred to the beneficiaries. The
current policy of free water and electricity for agriculture can lead to environmental problems from
overexploitation of groundwater and wasteful use of surface water which also affect ultimate sustainability.
50.        Project Operation Plan. The plan of operation for completing the components spilling beyond
the Credit closing date which was provided by the Project Co-ordination Directorate after the mission is given
in Attachment 1.
Lessons Learned
51.        Based on its work so far the mission's provisional list of lessons learned as a result of the project
implementation experience are as follows:
(i)  In order to maximize project benefits good co-ordination is required not only within water
resources agencies, but with government and university agencies involved in agriculture,
livestock and forestry. These agencies need to be fully involved in aspects such as
agricultural research, extension and watershed protection in order to maximize water use
efficiency and ensure project sustainability.
(ii) Priority should be given to establishment of water users' groups and the turnover to them
of O&M of the canal system and public tubewells. Formation of such groups would also
accelerate land leveling and other OFD works.
(iii) Better organization of beneficiaries is one way in which the time can be reduced between
provision of irrigation infrastructure and increased agricultural production. Government
should evolve incentive schemes to expedite land leveling and OFD works to minimize the
time gap between development of irrigation infrastructure and increased agricultural
production.
(iv) There appears to be a strong bias in projects for more attention to be paid to civil works
components, to the detriment of "soft" components such as training, studies, establishment
of computer and communication systems. This can be overcome by a time-bound program
agreed before project commencement.
(v)   Sustainability of the project financed improvements in irrigation and drainage will depend
on adequate O&M. For this clear institutional arrangements are required and a secure
system of funding identified and agreed. Studies in irrigation show that farmers are
prepared to pay, so long as they receive the services for which they have paid. This can be
achieved by (a) full funding for O&M, (b) cost recovery by charging for water to bring the
revenue to full O&M level, (c) transferring O&M responsibility of the canal system
(starting with watercourses, lined or unlined, in accordance with the Irrigation Act and
gradually moving upwards) to legally registered Water Users' Associations, and (d)
retaining part of the revenue from the water charges with the WUAs for O&M of the



39
system transferred to them. Such enhanced water rates, turnover of the system to the
WUAs and full O&M funding will enhance water use efficiency and result in consequent
saving in water and increased agricultural production. These benefits are totally absent
with the current policy of free water and electricity for agriculture.
(vi) Several posts identified in the project for running PIMTI have neither been created nor
have the few posts sanctioned been filled, causing a serious setback to the training
component. This has happened because of a general ban by the government on creating
new posts and on fresh recruitment. Special relaxation of such bans should be agreed for
Bank funded projects at the time of negotiations and should form part of the legal
agreements to avoid such situations.
Follow-Up
52.        The mission will prepare an ICR report which will be transmitted to WB by end August,
1998. GOP should prepare their own evaluation of project implementation. General guidance for the
GOP contribution is presented in Attachment 2.
Rome,
18 August, 1998.
(original draft
Chandigarh,
5 July, 1998).



40
Table 1. Environmental and Social Impacts of Punjab Second Irrigation and Drainage Project
Component                          Impacts                         Social       Env.                Management & Monitoring                                Lessons Learned
Impact      Impact
Rating      Rating
Kandi Dams        Loss of vegetation in submergence areas and      neutral     + ve         Watertable monitoring in irrigated areas required.   Investmeints can be justified on the basis of flood
downstream irrigated areas offset by reduction in                         Monitoring of use of pesticides required to avert    control recharge and irrigation benefits. Future
flood damage of areas downstream. Social ifnpact                          resistant pest build up. Catchment protection to  projects should consider the community's
on beneficiaries is positive but equity between                           continue in protected areas and border plantings in   willingness for land distribution to oustees as a
downstream beneficiaries and upstream PAPs not                            irrigated areas would improve sustainability      selection criteria for prioritizing dam interventions
considered.                                                                                                                 to prov ide greater equity. T'he Forestry or Soil
Conservation Departnicnt should be involved
from the outset in catchnient protection.
Kandi             Increased water supply has resulted in adoption of  +         neutral     Watertable monitoring, pesticide use monitoring.    FutLre projects should consider means of
Tubewells         paddy on unsuitable soils. Recharge from Choes (                          Research on sustainable tubewell network density    maxinsi/ing spread of benefits to very poor
rivulets) is already adequate. Hlighly positive                           needed. Border plantings in areas of rising       communities by imikirng wvillingness to accept land
social impacts on command area beneficiaries,                             groundwater                                       redistribution as a selection criteria for
particularly women, and improvements to general                                                                             intervention. 13etter uniderstanding of acceptable
drinking water supply are partly offset by lack of                                                                          tubewell density is needed given the demand for
measures to address equity within and between                                                                               this type of intervention
communities.
Kandi Canal       Negative impact at site of 1995 damage owing to   neutral     neg.        Watertable monitoring. Watershed protection in    A survey of the commriand area to determine areas
concentration of flow behind protection bund has                          areas above the canal is essential to sustainability    already developed to private tubcwells should
not been addressed adequately and sustainability                          given the flash flooding which is routine in the  have been conducted during design. In some areas
remains threatened by lack of biological mcasures                         area. Present sustainability questionable        it now appears that a main benefit of the canal
for watershcd protection or improvements to the                                                                             may be groundwater recharge rather than direct
cross drainage structure. Canal based irrigation                                                                            irrigation benefit
appears to be increasing groundwater table but
this is offset by tubewell development in
command area. Social impacts largely neutral
owing to previous tubewells
Canal and         Positive impacts on rising groundwater. Improved   icutral    +ve         Monitoring of watertable in paddy areas to ensure   Increased paddy areas are a result of both insect
watercourse       management of distributaries would improve                                that benefits of lining are not offset by increased  problenss and generally poor yields in alternative
lining            environmental benefits. Extra water is being used,                        infiltration from paddy. Greater emphasis on      crops. The project design was complacent in
however, to grow paddy at a low water use                                 improving yieid in alternative crops required.   assuming all the benefits of the green revolution
efficiency rather than extending the irrigable area                       Review of water supply arrangements and testing    had been captured so that agricultural research
of possible adjustments might improve viability of  components would not be needed
cotton by supplying more water for cotton in
April and delaying supply for rice until May-June,
thus allowing early cotton planting and reduced
insect attack.
Surface           Positive impact on grotndwater level, crop       +ve         +ve          Greater involvement of the Dept of Environment    Investment in surface drains is essential in south
Drainage          production and incomes over a large                                       in regulating drain use. Maintenanee of           western areas but not required for most other areas
(approximately 100,000 ha) area. Local negative                           piezometer netxork for determination of longer    yet. Drains act as a catalyst for tubewell
impacts on areas carrying drains and whtertm benefit, particularly svhere a switch to paddy    installation using private capital.. Benefits accrue



41
Component                            Impacts                           Social        EnN.                NManagement & Mlonitoring                                  Lessons Learned
Impact       Impact
____ ____ ____ _   __ ____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ Rating  Rating
uncontrolled discharges from indtistry ( e.g. a                                from cotton occurs                                  from both annual flood control and long tern)
paper mill near Malout) affect water quality for                                                                                   salinity and waterlogging amelioration
downstream users
Subsurface         Positive impact on small areas, although            Ive          +ve           Monitoring of private sector tubewvell               A LIseful model for field crops Future projects
drainage           rehabilitation will never be complete Positive                                 development wcithin the drained area.               must address drainage of saline lands under high
social impacts on very poor households                                                                                             value horticultural crops



42
Attachment 1
PLAN OF OPERATION FOR COMPLETING THE BALANCE ACTIVITIES
Sr. No.       Component             Balance Qtv.       Balance Cost         Program for
(Rs. Mlillion)      Completion
1.        Canal Lining            170 km                    183.52              03/99
2.         Modernization of       20 nos.                   39.85               03/99
Canal Structures.
3.         Modernization of       23 VSATs                  34.05               03/99
Communication
System
4.         Kandi Dams (civil      3 nos. (I ongoing and     230.00             06/2000
works)                2 new)
5.         Kandi Dams (R&R)              75%                  -                  12/98
(a) VR bridge on
Budki village
(b) Alternative
approach road for             100%                                    11/98
Siswan Dam
(c) Infrastructure for
Jainti colony                 100%                                   01/99
(d) House compen. to
Jainti PAPs                   50%                                     11/98
(e) Resettlement
colony for Thana dam
(f) House compen. for         100%                                    10/99
Thana PAPs
(g) Land compen. for          100%                                    10/99
PAPs of all dams
(h) M & E Study               72%                                     3/99
75%                                    12/98
6.         Kandi Tube wells       87 nos.                    46.0               03/99
(commissioning)
7.         Surface Drainage                                 21.90               03/99
(a) Resectioning       18 km
(b) Structures        24 nos.
8.         PIMTI                  65 Faculty Posts to be      -                 03/99
sanctioned      and
manned
9.         Mini-hydel Stations    4 nos.                    69.93                10/98
Total      _                                                625.25



43
Attachment 2
Guidance on Government's Contribution to ICR
Government's own final evaluation of the project implementation is an important part of an
ICR. It is attached, unedited, to the ICR sent to the WB board. It can be selective in its coverage and
should address issues and lessons learned in project implementation, from the borrower's perspective.
Topics covered can be the same as in the ICR, namely, project design, appraisal, implementation and
project results. At each stage of the project, the contribution should comment on both IDA and the
implementing agencies' performances, with the observations, where possible, supported by evidence or
reasoned argument.
For project design the contribution could address such questions as the appropriateness of
the project's objectives, the size of the project and the scope of the investments proposed, aspects of
design leading to easy (or difficult) implementation and the effect on government institutions.
For project appraisal, comments should concentrate on any significant changes in the
objectives, size and scope of the project and whether these were appropriate.
Project implementation experience should be divided into an assessment of IDA
performance in supporting and supervising the project and the perfornance of the implementing
agenicies.
Project results include both an assessment of the direct physical benefits leading to financial
and economic benefits (or disbenefits) arising from the policy changes. Since financial and economic re-
analysis of the project will be undertaken as part of the ICR, it is suggested, if GOP so wishes, that the
contribution could most usefully comment on overall impact of the project from the Government's
perspective. Such an analysis would be a most useful contribution to the ICR.
Based on the foregoing sections, the contribution should list the main lessons learned from
the implementation experience and arising from the above analysis.
WB suggest that if the contribution is more than ten pages it should include a summary. The
latter is recommended for all but the shortest contributions.
The mission will be happy to provide any further elaboration or clarification required to
assist in preparation of the contribution.
The Government's own evaluation report should be sent to the Bank within three months of
the ICR mission, that is, latest by end of September 1 q98.



44
Appendix B
India
Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project (CR. 2076-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Impact Evaluation of the Irrigation and Drainage Modernization Components in
Terms of Water Savings and Related Benefits
Table 1. Comparison of SAR and ED Assumptions on Water Saving Impact of the
Three Irrigation Systems Modernization Components
Item           Total length        Annual water      Total volume saved    Total irrigation
modernized        saving per km of    per annum (Mm3)    potential created
channel lined (M3'                             (ha)
SAR       ED        SAR        ED        SAR        ED        SAR        ED
Water course      4,000     5,175     58,500    50,500      234       261      39,000    44,000
modernization
Canal lining       816      1,093    294,100   230,400      240      . 252     40,000    42,000
(branch,
distributary,
minor)
Canal structure    230       268                            100       236       17,000    39,000
modernization
(only head and
cross-regulators
considered)
Grand Total                                                 574       749      96,000    125,000
' The ED assumes a surface water duty of 5,800 m3/ha, whereas the SAR assumes 6,000 m3/ha for water
courses and 4,444 m3/ha for water saved through canal lining (probably an error). To enable comparison, a
uniform water duty of 6,000 in3/ ha has been adopted



45
Appendix C
India
Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project (CR. 2076-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Review of the Kandi Canal Sub-Project
Salient Features
I.         The Kandi Canal Scheme originates from the early Seventies. From its inception the scheme
was sub-divided into two phases out of which Phase I was initiated in 1978/79 but remained incomplete
for over a decade. It was therefore proposed to be included for completion under the Punjab Irrigation
and Drainage Project (Phase II). Remaining works consisted of 15.63 km of main canal (to arrive at its
total length of 59.5 km) and of an unspecified number of distributaries, minors and watercourses. The
completed Phase I of the Scheme was to generate a total CCA of 20,000 ha. Phase II, which involves a
canal extension of 80 km and an additional CCA of 36,000 ha was not considered. However, the Phase I
main canal is dimensioned to cover the full discharge required for both phases, including low-lift
pumping to areas not under gravity command. Ilrojected demand for Phase I (see below) would be less
than 30%/O of actual canal capacity provided (14.2 m3/s).
2.         As implemented, the Schemc consists of the main canal of 59.5 km, about 62 km of lined
distributaries and minors, and about 611 km of lined watercourses, Total expenditure was Rs773.5
million, under this project.
Implementation Aspects
3.         The main canal crosses a total ol 96 natlural drainage lies. Most of these are spate streams
(choes) which are subject to flaslh floodling. 'thlis call bc violenlt and damnaging, as experienced in 1995
and 1996. The standard canal crossings used ar c in-silu concrete syphon structures, flanked by flood
protection embankments. Interruptions inflicted by the 1995 and 1996 floods indicate that the canal
irrigation facilities provided will conitinuic to he at risk, if floods are not attenuated by upstream protection
measures.
4.         Contrary to agreemenit reacleld at appraisal, the D)OI did not adopt long-crested (duckbill)
weirs as canal controls. As agreed with the July 1991 W13 Review Mission, one duckbill weir-cum-
sluicegate was constructed as a trial at cross-rcgulator IRD45 ol the Kandi Canal. The lack of more
general adoption of duckbill wcirs was a chanicc lost to Iacilitate canal operation and thereby making
savings in O&M requirements, particularly with regard to the built-in over-capacity of the main canal. In
comparison to gated cross regulators investment costs would also have been lower.



46
Preliminary Assessment of Scheme Performance
5.         By project closure on 31 July 1998 about 14,000 ha were reported to be under irrigation by
the Scheme. While the DOI expects the full CCA of 20,000 ha to be developed over the next six years, it
does not seem to take account of the large amount of groundwater irrigation that is taking place in the
area. From agricultural statistics it can be deduced that within the 20,000 ha CCA of the Scheme at least
4,000 private (mostly shallow) tubewells are currently operational, irrigating at least 10,000 ha. In
addition, the PSTC have developed about 2,000 ha, irrigated from public medium to deep tubewells.
Consequently within the 20,000 ha command area some 12.000 hia are supplied from groundwater, while
14,000 ha are estimated to receiving surface water supplies from Kandi canal. This indicates an overlap,
or conjunctive use, on about 6,000 ha of the command area which appears in the correct order of
magnitude.
The Tubewell Development Alternative
6.         The argument initially brought forward in favour of Kandi Canal Scheme was that the
prospective command area had no other source of irrigation water. The Bank at preparation adopted this
view (Aide-Memoire of 1987 Preparation Mission), although at the time it was already known that the
Kandi area had considerable potential for groundwater development. A consultant team working under
the Kandi Watershed Project (Cr.1897-IN) had in 1987 concluded that tubewell development in the Kandi
area is a promising investment for irrigated agriculture. The project also had made provision for a
comprehensive study of the Kandi area's groundwater resources and for preparing a master plan for its
proper utilisation. However, due to lack of commitment and funding the intended investigations were not
producing results. These would obviously have provided a formidable challenge to the Kandi Canal
Scheme.
7.         Meanwhile much more is knowni about the groundwater resource, not least through a DOA
study completed in 19981, which proves that grouLndwater levels in the Kandi tract are generally rising,
even approaching waterlogging conditions in adjacent areas to the west. While tubewell irrigation would
reduce this hazard, the operation of Kandi Canal Schcnc is doing the opposite by importing further water
into the area.
Cost ('oinparisoii
8.         Kandi Canal. Assuminlg all inlvCstimlCnt costs prior to 1989 as sunk, the development of the
14.000 ha of actually irrigated area (somc only in con junctioll witilh tubcwclls) has cost a total of Rs773.5
million ($26 million) or approximately Rs55,25() pe hectare ($1,857 per hectare).
9.         The annual O&M costs arc estimate(d hy 1)01 at Rs42.37 million, or around Rs3,030 per
hectare. This may appear high, but must hc judgcd against thc cxposcd location of the canal with its
many structures and a corrcsponding risk oi llood dam71ages.
10.        Tubewell Development ulldcr the plroject has been implemented at a cost of about Rs32,000
per hectare, which is only 58% ol the unit cost tor the Kanedi Schcme, not considering the sunk cost in the
latter. O&M costs for the average tubewell irrigatcd commanid is estimated at about Rs2,500 per hectare,
Sk. Misra and S.K. Tandon - The Impact of Development Activities on Watertable During Last Decade in Kandi
Area. Punjab DOA Chandigarh 1998.



47
which is also noticeably lower than for Kandi Canal Scheme. Even not having considered pumpset
replacement costs, this simple comparison indicates that canal irrigation in the Kandi area is more cost-
intensive than tubewell development. The higher risk factor does not only affect O&M but an
interruption of supply in the Kandi system would be far more damaging to beneficiaries than an
occasional power failure in tubewell irrigation. Overall tubewell development due to its adaptiveness is
also better suited to the dissected, irregular topography of most of the Kandi area.
Conclusions
11.       With hindsight, the justification for building Kandi Canal Scheme has been overtaken by
experience gained through its implementation as well as through enhanced knowledge of the area's
groundwater resource and the tubewell development potential, including its comparative
environmental advantages. As a first consequence of experience gained, it would be wise not to
pursue the idea of a canal extension (Phase 11) any further. From this follows that the existing 59.5
km of main canal of Phase I would forever remain grossly over-dimensioned. Only a partial remedy
may be feasible through expanding gravity irrigation beyond the Kandi area proper, so as to include
areas to the west and south-west in Dasuya, Thanda and Bhunga Blocks. Although this would
require remodelling of some of the existing distribution system, the additional investment may be
feasible on the grounds of spreading already invested resources as well as O&M costs over a larger
benefiting area.



48
Appendix D
India
Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project (CR. 2076-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Financial and Economic Analvsis
A. Changes in Agriculture as a Result of the Project
Background
1.         Agriculture in the Punjab has supplied between 60 and 70 percent of wheat and 40 toSO
percent of rice to the central pool for the last decade. The productivity of the area is due to rapid
expansion of irrigation from about 62 percent of area sown in 1955 to 1981 percent in 1980 and over
93percent since 1990 on soils of alluvial origin and moderately high fertility. The growth in
irrigation has been accompanied by increased mechanization of agriculture, particularly in the use of
tractors for cultivation over the last 10 years. Moreover, the use of chemical fertilizers has increased
dramatically. Average use of all (NPK) fertilizers increased from 38 kg/ha in 1970/71 to 113 kg/ha
in 1980/81. Fertilizer use has been static at around 164 kg/ha since 1990. Total food grain
production has also been static at around 20( million tons since 1990.
2.         There has been a general trend toward increased paddy production at the expense of
other crops as irrigated area has expanded and in r esponise to the higlher productivity of paddy than
alternative crops under irrigation in the Kharid'season. Paddy area increased from 120,000 ha in
1950/51 to over 2 million ha in 1990. At the same tim7e miaize area declined from 252,000 ha to
188,000 ha and Kharif (summer) pulse area declined sliglhtly fr'omi1 97,000 ha to 75,000 ha. In the
Rabi (winter) season , wheat area almost trebled liotFir 1. m illioln ha to 3.1 million ha between 1950
to 1990 but has been static during 1990 to 1')'. (iirowth in Wxheat prodLuction is constrained by a lack
of varieties suited to the short (135-140) day growinig season and yields are low by comparison with
irrigated areas elsewhere. Wheat yield with curnllt vacieties, could however, still be improved by
reducing the delay in planting into paddy areas by, lor exanmple, direct drilling with disc-opener based
drills. Yield increases, particularly lor rice, were initially dramiiatic during the green revolution years
of the 1960s and 1970s but have stazbilized3 durinig the 1990s. Over the same period, however, yields
of other crops show much smaller increases ('Table I ).'The yield of cotton has declined dramatically
during 1997/98, particularly in project arcas at lhe tail end ol'irrigation systems, owing to a major
problem with bollworm infestation of crops as a result of excessive pesticide use combined with
monoculture of cotton on sandy soils. Although the soils are not well suited to paddy, a change to
this crop is occurring generally across the cotton areas of Punjab, particularly where groundwater
pumping can be used to supplement canal irrigation.
3.         Although the climate of Punjab is monsoonal, with an annual rainfall of 400-700mm in
project areas, seasons are of short duration. High rainfall intensities, particularly in the Kharif season



49
cause considerable run-off and make irrigation essential for high yields. Irrigation, particularly from
private, shallow tubewells (20-50 meters depth) has expanded dramatically over the 1960/1990
period (Table 2).
4.         The general trend, therefore has been toward production of crops giving the highest
yields and returns per hectare under irrigation, principally paddy and wheat. Farmers have sought to
irrigate dryland areas by whatever means possible, particularly since subsidies have been available
for tubewell construction and investments from multilateral loan agency sources have emphasized
irrigation expansion or system rehabilitation. These general changes, which had occurred over a
thirty year period from 1960 to the time of project design in the late 1980s, were also a feature of
project areas in the period 1990 to 98.
Cropping Patterns and Yields
5.         In all project areas, with the possible exception of the command areas of low dams,
irrigation development has been accompanied by an expansion of paddy production at the expense of
maize (in Kandi areas) or cotton (in plains areas), even where soils are not well suited, by their coarse
texture, to paddy production.
Low Dams
6.         In the irrigated areas developed under the low dams, the main initiative has been to use
irrigation water for expansion of fodder production. These areas were heavily dissected and the costs
of developing true level basins for paddy culture were generally seen as excessive. Moreover,
farmers in the command areas are generally older, with fanmilies hlaving left the formerly poverty
stricken areas in search of work elsewhere in I'uLnjab, lndia or abroad. Border or furrow irrigation of
maize, fodder and wheat has replaccd dr-ylanid agriculture bascd on opportunity cropping of maize in
the Kharif and wheat or pulses and oilsecds in thc lRabi scasoni. Fodder yields (fresh basis) have
increased from around 10 ton/ha to 30 ton /ha lor Kharifilillet and 10 t/ha to 20-25 t/ha for Rabi
Berseem and oats or barley. Nevertlhcless, expansion ol irrigated area in the Kharif season has
initially been slower than in the Rabi season, with manly farmiers retaining the traditional fallowing
practices for wheat. As farm incomes rise, mechanization is allowing greater expansion of
horticultural and fodder cropping in the Kharif seasoni, paL-ticularly for milk production in areas close
to major centers.
7.         Farm areas vary accordinig to cxisting cadastral boundaries trom 2 to perhaps 15 acres in
size, with a corresponding wide ranige in relativc belnclit fr-omil inrigation development. Unfortunately,
the resettlement arrangements only allowed rol coniiiiiiiitics below the dams to be "encouraged" to
supply land to oustees at fair market priccs. 'I'hc project did not really address the problem of income
rehabilitation compared to simple compcnsahion. Other options which might have been considered
include the allocation of tradable water righlis to both landowners and landless. The willingness of
potential beneficiaries to redistribute lands in order to create greater opportunities for the landless
might have been made a much strongcr sclection criteria during design and appraisal.



50
Kandi Tubewells
8.        Tubewell development generally occurred in areas where a deep watertable and very
difficult drilling conditions precluded private tubewell development. Consequently, the benefit to
those in the command areas, who were formerly dependent on marginal rainfed agriculture and
outside labor, has been considerable (Tables 8 and 10). Farms which formerly produced 600-700
kg/ha of maize and perhaps 900 kg/ha wheat on an opportunity basis are now engaged in paddy and
sugar production, with secondary crops of oilseed and pulses in both seasons, resulting in marked
increases in cropping intensity and incomes (Tables 5 and 8). In general, the watertable is deep and
paddy production on the generally light textured, highly permeable soils serves to maintain the
watertable so that no adverse consequences are expected.
9.        Farm areas also vary from 2 to 20 ha depending on the area. Benefits are thus very
unevenly distributed within command areas. Moreover, there is little benefit to villagers with land
outside the command area apart from clean accessible drinking water supply. As in the case of low
dam developments, future Bank assisted projects should be more proactive in exploring means of
introducing equity in the distribution of benefits, through an initial emphasis on the formation of
farmer associations which could be assisted in working through problems of land and water
allocation.
Kandi Canal
10.       The pre- and post-project situations in the areas under the Kandi canal are less well
defined. Many of the areas to be developed for canal irrigation were probably under irrigation by
tubewells at the time of project design. Althoughi del'initive statistics for the command area are not
available, data supplied by project staff indicatcs that sonie 36,914 private shallow tubewells have
been developed in the blocks of floslliarpur I and I loshiarpur Il district covered by the Kandi canal
command area. The State Tubewells Corporationl has developed tubewells irrigating about 2,000 ha
in areas with groundwater below about 30 metcrs. lrivate Lubewell development has been further
stimulated by the prospect of additional SCCuIity accruing fiom canal development. Allowing that
only 10 percent of the tubewells developed arc actually in the command area and that they irrigate
about 2.5 ha each, gives an irrigated arca oi'sollmC 12,00() ha bctween public and private tubewells
within the Kandi Canal command area. '['his estimate is suppor-ted by the proportion of lands in the
command area lying in shallow groundwatcr zolCs (see Appenldix C) compared to deeper (low 30
meter) zones.
11.       The tubewell areas inspccted were ilvolvced in lodder (20 percent area), maize (10 to 40
percent area) and sugar (10 to 20 percent area) produictioni, with secondary pulse and oilseed
production over a further 20 percent ol' l:aim area. With thc advent of supplementary canal irrigation
combined with free power for tubewell opcrationi, thc area of paddy commonly expands to about half
the cultivable area in the Kharif seasonl, with sugar (20 percent) and fodder (30 percent) comprising
the balance. In the Rabi season, the practices ol'fallowing and mixing gram and wheat as intercrops
is replaced by a wheat monoculture with sonie rattoon sugar. Benefits on new land are similar those
for public tubewell development (Table 10) but are reduced where irrigation has already been
developed using private tubewells.



51
12.        Watertables are rising rapidly as irrigation, particularly of paddy, expands. This rise is
not an immediate concern in the higher elevation areas but could exacerbate a danger of salinization
in tail reaches where watertables are already shallow. Numerous natural flashy watercourses already
supply water for groundwater recharge and expansion of canal irrigated area should be considered
very carefully from both hydrological and economic viewpoints (see Appendix C).
Plains
13.        Canal and Watercourse lining and System modernization areas. Lining of canals
and watercourses has resulted in a possible water saving of some 670 Mm3 (Appendix B). The
effects of water saving have not, however, been realized in terms of expanded irrigation intensity or
new area development, but as expanded areas of paddy production, particularly in the south western
areas such as Bathinda where cotton production is declining. In Bathinda district, paddy area
expanded from 32,000 ha in 1992 to 1993 to a peak of 52,000 ha in 1995 and 44,000 ha in 1996 to
1997. It is expected to rise further after successive cotton crop failures (due to insect devastation) in
1997 and 1998. Cotton area also increased from 11,000 ha to 23,000 ha over the same period but
yields declined from 388 kg/ha lint to 285 kg/ha lint in 1996. Average yields are likely to decline
further in 1997 to 1998.
14.        A typical farm in the south-western plains areas (where high and saline watertables are a
concern) has therefore expanded paddy production by about 40 percent, whilst reducing cotton area
and maintaining fodder and oilseed production in the Kharif and wheat and oilseed areas in the rabi
season. Canal irrigated area in Bathinda has actually decreased from 365,000 ha in 1991 to 1992 to
233,000 ha in 1996, whilst tubewell irrigated area has also decreased from 77,000 ha to 49,000 ha
over the same period. Reduced areas of'canal and tubewell irrigation allow greater water supply for
paddy. The result is that canal and watercourse lining may be somewhat self defeating in terms of
reducing the rise in watertable levels in the south-western areas, since paddy culture on sandy soils
simply compensates for the reduced accessions from canals and watercourses.
15.       In areas such as Faridkot where a declining watertable is the problem, paddy areas have
remained generally static as tubewell irrigationi hlas dcclined and canal irrigation has expanded. In
Faridkot, tubewell irrigated area dcclincd f'romii 238,00() ha in 1991 to 91,000 ha in 1995 but canal
irrigated area expanded from 208,000 ha to 412,000 ha in thc samc period.
16.        The model developed to describe these chlanlges assumes an expansion of about 40
percent in paddy area with project fronm 1.0( ha to 1.4 ha per 2 ha farm (Table 5) with decreases in
cotton area from 0.8 to 0.4 ha. In order to calculate thc cconomic impact of water savings from
canals and watercourses, the value of' water was calculated assuming this farm model and the
following water requirements after allowinig a 50 percenit effectiveness of Kharif season rainfall and
10 percent effectiveness of Rabi rainifall.



52
Irrigation requirements for various project area crops
Kharif Season Crops        Irrigation         Rabi Season Crops          Irrigation
Requirements                                 Requirements
(m3/ha)
Paddy                         10,500         Wheat                          3,000
Maize                         4,000          Oilseeds                       2,000
Pulses                        1,500          Pulses                         1,500
Groundnut                     2,000          Fodder                         2,500
Fodder                        4,000
Cotton                        4,500
Sugar                         10,500
17.       After applying these water requirements to the farm models of Table 5, the water
requirements for plains area farns were calculated as 10,000 m3/ha without project and 11,600
m3/ha with project. The water supply without project to meet the demand without project was
probably divided equally between canal and tubewell supplies of around 5,000 m3/ha each (see also
SAR Annex 16, page 3, para. 9). Allowing a 20 percent saving of water from watercourse lining and
a 7 percent saving from lining of distributaries and minors (see Appendix B), the incremental water
from the canal system would be sufficient to provide around 1,350 m3/ha. The balance of 250 m3/ha
could be derived from a small (5 percent) expansion in tubewell numbers over the implementation
period of the project.
18.       Drainage Areas. It is ditficult to definie any change in cropping patterns as the result of
drainage, apart from an increase in paddy production on small, formerly salinized areas, now drained
by a combination of deep surface drains and pumping to large surface drains. The majority of the
area has been subjected to maintenance of existing large drains rather than construction of a new
secondary and tertiary drainage system as planned at appraisal. No particular benefit from drainage
is found in the yield data of areas where main drainage has been improved. Wheat yields for
example, have remained largely constant at around 3.5 t/ha. The main benefit in financial terms over
the project period is therefore assumed to be the greater income available from paddy production, a
trend evident not only in project arcas but across the Punjab.
19.       Managing Water for better balanced Paddy and Cotton areas. One initiative which
could be useful in addressing the piroblemiis ol paddy expansion and cotton decline in areas of high
watertables, is the management ol wate sUpply to tail reaches in spring, particularly in the cotton
planting season in April. Insect attack is miost severe in late plantings of cotton. Current water
distribution policy, however, emplhasizes equity in allocation along a distributary, even though those
at the head reach, growing paddy, may not parlicularly need water until May or June. If water could
be preferentially distributed to tailenders on sandy soils for cotton planting in early April, the
majority of cotton could be planted before insect numbers multiplied on the feed supplied by late
plantings under ideal warm conditions. I)evastation in the seedling stage would be avoided but
integrated pest managenment including banning of non-selective pesticides such as Monocrotophos
would still be required.
20.        Adoption of paddy has been encouraged by rapid mechanization of land preparation and
harvest and the availability of cheap labor from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh for wheat harvest and



53
subsequent paddy transplanting. In fact, such cheap labor availability is causing a shift to early
planting in April and May, (which increases suncracking in the developing grain during August)
simply because labor is available at that time.
Use of Inputs and Mechanization
21.        Typical levels of input use are given in Table 7. Input use has followed similar trends in
all areas. Fertilizers are widely available and urea financial price is well below its economic value
(Table 12). Credit is widely available from the banking system. There has been a general trend to
increase urea and DAP use under irrigation or where irrigation is more secure. Some areas in the
plains have adopted zinc sprays for paddy and cotton. Unfortunately, use of non-selective pesticides
has become widespread on all crops and has undoubtedly contributed to the general problem of
resistance in Heliothis spp. Family labor has been reduced by the adoption of four wheel tractors in
the 30-50 hp class for cultivation and of combine harvesters for paddy harvest. Unfortunately,
implements for construction of beds and their subsequent planting are not available. Plantings are all
on the flat and thus suffer unnecessary drainage problems. Planting equipment is very simple and
poorly adapted to crops such as cotton or soyabean which would provide an alternative to paddy in
the Kharif. Equipment is available for land leveling by eye in small areas but is effective in the
hands of experienced operators. On average, land leveling requires about 100- 120 hours of tractor
and implement time per hectare, an investment of some Rs 1 5,000-Rs 18,000 per ha. Consequently,
irrigation land development lags behind canal or tubewell construction and a typical 2 ha farm may
be developed over a 4 or 5 year period.
Environmental Aspects
22.        The environmental and social impact of the project initiatives has been generally
positive, as forecast at appraisal. The impacts and mitigation/monitoring required are summarized in
Table 4. The main difficulties have arisen from the potential impact of expanded paddy production
on unsuitable soils and from a failure to include watershed protection in the design of the Kandi
Canal, when it was known at design that the structure would cross numerous flashy streams and that
failure might result in downstream devastation. As a result of each of these problems, the
sustainability of project initiatives is qucstionablc.
23.       In social terms, tlhc project followed Indian Government guidelines for resettlement and
accomplished ahlmost all of' ils targcts. I lowever, it did nothing to introduce new initiatives in
resettlement, particularly grcater equity in distribution of benefits.
24.        Many of the problems are more a result of what the project did not attempt rather than its
actual initiatives. Project design and supervision suffered from a separation of engineering initiatives
from agricultural benefits and necessary environmental safeguards. Too much emphasis was placed
on the use of loan funds for what was cff'ectively a deferred maintenance program on the plains and a
series of components aimed at completing investments already commenced, such as Kandi canal,
where too little consideration was given to the net benefits which might accrue.



54
B. EFFECT ON FARM INCOMES
Typical Farm Budgets
25.        Gross margins per hectare are presented in Table 3. Per hectare budgets applicable to
typical 2 ha farms are given in Table 6 (for individual crops) and Table 8 (for whole farm models).
(a) Sugar provides attractive returns for farms within the radius of influence of a sugar
factory, particularly because of subsidized prices for urea and cane compared to
world parity prices (see Table 12). A gross margin of some Rs 26,050 per ha applies
to this crop in both with and without project situations (since the crop is always
irrigated and "with project" costs are applied in this case). Farmers comment,
however, that payments from some factories are frequently delayed and/or erratic.
(b) Paddy provides a secure income from limited areas in the Kharif despite prices well
below world market levels. The gross margin calculated (with and without project)
is Rs15,714 per ha, considerably greater than cotton (Rs2,852/ha with or without
project) or any other Kharif crop.
(c) Wheat is a mainstay in the Rabi season, with a gross margin of Rs2,670/ha without
project and Rsl2,860/ha with project (Table 3). Yields are low by world standards
for irrigated crops and could conceivably be improved to 5-6t/ha under irrigation
given the growing season duration of 135-140 days, through adoption of machinery
for direct drilling into paddy areas and the breeding of higher yield, short duration
varieties. Nevertheless, the gross margini available witlh irrigation still exceeds that
of other rabi crops such as linseed, lodder (lor dairy) or pulses.
(d) In general the income of ftrtaners in Kandi areas is based on a diversified mix of
activities, whilst the mainstay of plains farms is narrowly based on wheat and paddy,
with lesser contributions from fodder. With a decline in cotton yields, farmers have
no choice but to switch to paddy if water is available
(e) Considerable use is made ol contractors lor planting and harvest, to reduce family
labor. Tractors are commnlon in all villages andi contractors with paddy harvesting
machinery arc also readily available. 'I'hc estimiates of family labor requirement are
thus lower than those cstimatled in 1 988 to 1989 lor the SAR.
Results
26.        The incremental finanicial benef'its to famieiris o01 typical 2 ha farms are given in Table 10.
There are considerable benefits whele new ir r igated areas are created as a result of the project.
However, for parts of the Kandi ('anal area and irrigationi areas on the plains resulting from water
savings due to lining and moder-nizationl, the benelits are nmuch smaller.
27.        Incremental income per 2 ha far-mii in new irrigation areas ranges from approximately
Rs23,500 per family for the low dams to about R0s39,900 tor Kandi Tubewells. In irrigated areas of
Kandi canal and on the plains, however, incremcental family incomes are only Rs5,026 (plains) to
Rs15,600 (Kandi Canal ) per annum approximately. The increases in labor are modest (from 1 day
for Kandi Canal irrigated farms to 65 days for low dams) and are within the means of an average



55
family of 6 persons. Returns to family labor (Rs159-284 per labor day) are attractive compared to
daily wage rates of Rs7O and show increases in all cases except for the plains, where returns to labor
are static.
Lessons Learned
28.       The project would have benefited from inclusion of staff with agricultural and
environmental skills during design, appraisal and supervision to provide a holistic approach to the
realization of agricultural and environmental benefits. Greater co-operation with the Soil
Conservation and Forestry Departments might have improved catchment management ( and thus
project sustainability) in the Kandi Zone and reduced conflicts now causing delays in resettlement.
29.       The general switch to paddy, even on unsuitable soils, indicates that too little effort has
gone into improvement of alternative crops. The SAR showed a degree of complacency in assuming
that "most of the potential gains (of the green revolution) were captured very quickly". (SAR page 5,
para. 2.18). By neglecting investments in agricultural research and extension in parallel with
irrigation development, the design has reduced the potential impact of additional water and may have
increased the potential for negative environmental impacts on groundwater as a result of expanded
paddy production. Expanded paddy production in high groundwater areas of the south west Punjab
has reduced the impact of the drainage component.
30.       The SAR assumed that the potential for further development of groundwater was limited
(page 5, para 2.18). In fact private groundwater development was active at the time of appraisal
(information supplied by AD) and has continued in all areas (Table 2), particularly the Kandi Canal
command area, reducing the potential returns from further investment in canal irrigation. More
careful survey of the status of groundwater development and of farmers' intentions would have been
appropriate for this project and should bc conducted bef'ore ftirther investments in canal irrigation are
made.
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Assumptions and Estimates
31.       As l'ar as possiblc the ecoinomiiic anialysis has been made on a comparable basis to that
used in the SAR. For the analysis all inivestmeilnt costs have been brought to July 1998 constant
prices by use of the MIJV index for the loreigni exchanige component of such costs and by the
Consumer Price Index lor local costs (T'able 15). All local costs have also been adjusted by the SCF
of 0.9. The main traded commoditics and artificial li-tilizers have been valued at border parity prices
based on World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts lfr Year 2005 in July 1998 constant prices
(Table 12). Prices used lor the analysis are prcsenited in Table 9. All farm labor (including family
labor) has been valued at the market rate of Rs70 per day, adjusted by the SCF to give a cost for the
analysis of Rs63 per day. RZecurrenit operationi and maintenance costs for the various components
have been estimated as l'ollows:



56
Annual O&M as a % of capital costs, for the year
following construction
(%)
Canal lining                                                          I
Modernized structures                                                 I
Watercourse lining
Kandi Canal                                                           3
Kandi Dams                                                            2
Annual O&M cost
(Rs/ha)
Kandi Tubewells                                                     2,500
32.        Value of irrigation water for the economic analysis is based on the water requirements
for plains area farms, calculated in paras. 16 and 17 above and the figures for economic net benefits
per ha for the plains area farms given in Table I1, adjusted by inclusion of fixed costs. These have
been estimated at 16 percent of cash costs, based on data provided in a Punjab Agricultural
University Report1 . Net farm income after deduction of these costs is calculated at Rs26,443 per ha
without project and Rs34,923 per ha with project giving an economic value of irrigation water of
Rs2.6 per m3 without project, or Rs3.0 per m3 with the project. The figure of Rs2.6 per m3 has been
adopted for the economic analysis. For estimation of benefits it has been assumed that additional
water available for irrigation as a result of water savings from canal and watercourse lining becomes
available in the year following the completion of the works. Where water savings are converted into
area benefited, it is assumed that the change fiom a without to a with project at full development
situation occurs over a five year period. Fstimation of areas benefited in each year under each
component are given in Table 13.
Results of the Analysis
33.        Canal Lining. Fconomic ratc of'rctur-ni based on the without and with project situation
farm models is calculated at 31 pcrccnt ('Tabl I 6 (a)). If'calculated on the economic value of water
saved (as in the SAR) the rate of'rcturn is calculated at 25 percent. Both methods of analysis give
results slightly lower, but similar to the 33 per-cenit 1ilgui-c calculated for the SAR.
34.        However, the econonic viability of'tllc canial lining investment will depend on the extent
to which increased irrigation watcr delivct-y by thc canlals rcpresents savings of water which would
otherwise have leaked to salinc glounllwatcr. As discussed in Appendix B, para. 9, it was assumed at
appraisal that lining would only be unld(crtaken in saline groundwater areas where such seepage into
saline groundwater would be non-r-ccoverablc, nor was the predominance of paddy cropping foreseen
at appraisal. Expansion in the USe oftuLhewells, in some instances within the command area of
modernized canal and watercourscs, indicates that grounldwater under such improved structures is not
always too saline to be used for irrigationi. No data are available on the proportion of canal and
watercourse lining completed in arcas whlcr grounidwater can be used for irrigation. To test the
sensitivity of the component's econiomic rate o' returnl to this factor an analysis has been carried out
assuming that only 50 percent of tlle lining occurred in areas where seepage losses are unrecoverable
and the balance 50 percent in areas wherc seepage losses could be used for irrigation by pumping.
'A Study into the Economics of Farming in the Punjab (1994-95). Department of Economics and Sociology, PAU.



57
Benefit of the lining in such latter areas would therefore be limited to the saving in pumping costs,
estimated at RsO.5 per m3. This assumption results in a reduction in the net incremental benefits
stream to 60 percent of the base case. As a result the economic rate of return calculated on the
without and with project farm models would decline to 21 percent and calculated on the economic
value of irrigation water would decline to 14 percent.
35.        Watercourse lining. Economic rate of return is calculated at 37 percent based on
comparison of without and with project fann models (Table 16 (b)) and at 31 percent based on the
economic value of water saved (as in the SAR). This is significantly better than the SAR forecast
result of 20 percent due to the apparent cost effectiveness of watercourse lining in saving irrigation
water. A sensitivity analysis similar to that made for canal lining showed that if only 50 percent of
watercourse lining occurred in areas where seepage water would otherwise be lost and that in the
balance area the only saving was a pumping cost of RsO.5 m3 of water, the economic rate of return
based on the without and with project farm models would decline to 25 percent. Based on the
economic value of water, the rate of return would fall to 18 percent.
36.        Kandi canal. The economic rate of return is calculated at 16 percent (Table 16 (c)),
similar but slightly lower than the 20 percent forecast at appraisal. Factors contributing to this are
that even though the analysis benefits from hieavy sunk costs for construction of most of the main
canal, over 40 percent of the command area is assumed in the calculation to already benefit from
tubewell irrigation (Table 13). Benefits from this latter area are therefore confined to those arising
from some improvement in irrigation (Table I l).
37.        The analysis points to the need for careful evaluation before proceeding with any further
extension of the Kandi canal. This extension has becen proposed by ID as a Phase II development
(Appendix C and Map 2). Flowcver, in view ol'the rapid development of tubewells it would seem
likely that any further extcnsion would pr-ove unlecoiionoic. Consideration should rather be given to
extending the command area of'thc Cxistin1g canial soutlh of the Floshiapur/Dasuya road which would
improve the viability of'the invcstniclts already made.
38.        Kandi tubewells. 'lhe econlomllic rate of'rcturln is calculated at 10 percent (Table 16 (d)),
lower than the 15  percent calculatcd at appraisal. 'Ilhe maini reasonl for this result is that the area
benetfited is taken as the irrigated area developed up to July 1998 and there can be expected to be
some further growth in area, allhougl the CxtClnt ot' SUCh additional area is uncertain. Since the
tubewells have gcnerally bcc  sulik in arcas whcrc wcll drilliig is problematic and watertables are
deep, both capital and opcratin1g costs arc rclativcly highi and it is therefore unlikely that the tubewells
will show a very high ccononic ratc of rctUmi, although this will be strongly influenced by the
command area developcd. Arca givenI as irr igatcd in 'I'able 13 approximates to 40 ha per well of
those commissioned, or abouLt 3 l ha pcr wcll includinlg those sunk but not yet commissioned. In the
SAR average area irrigated per tulbewcll was forecast as 59 ha.
39.        Kandi damns. 'I'hc econiomic ratc o' return calculated for the Kandi dams is negative (-5
percent). The main reason lor this is that benefits have only been credited according to those areas
already developed for irrigation, including an estimate of area that will be irrigated from the
underground pipeline system already laid. Irrigated area has expanded slowly since the areas
commanded often require considerable leveling and family labor and financial resources are limited.
Further increase in irrigated area under the dams would result in an improved economic rate of



58
return. In addition to the agricultural benefits, the dams also have an important benefit in flood
protection of areas below the dam and allow increased use of riparian areas for agricultural
production. Statistics to quantify these benefits were not available and no estimate has been made
either of flood prevention value or land reclamation as a result of the dam construction.
40.        Combined five components. The economic rate of return of the above five components
is calculated at 26 percent. If only 50 percent of canal and watercourse lining occurred in areas of
saline groundwater, the overall economic rate of return for the five components would fall to 18
percent.
41.        Other components. An economic analysis was made of the investments in canal
regulation. The analysis, on a similar basis to that for canal and watercourse lining, resulted in a rate
of return of 55 percent calculated on both the farm models without and with project as well as on
water savings. As set out in Appendix B, the canal regulators are estimated to save some II 7 million
m3 annually. However, there is no data to indicate the phasing of this benefit against the
construction schedule. Consequently the assumption that water saving is directly related to annual
expenditures is not necessarily true and since the regulators are rather "lumpy" investments and
benefits will only flow when they are completed, this assumption may seriously overstate likely
economic rate of return. The best that the analysis can do is to indicate that, based on the other
assumptions made of eventual water saving as a result of canal regulator construction, the economic
rate of return on such investments is likely to be safely above the marginal value of capital, taken as
12 percent.
42.        The mission was not able to make any reliable estimate of the benefits from the
improved surface drainage as a result of the project. In order to do this, evidence of the effect of the
resectioned drains on agricultural production would need to be collected over a period as discussed in
Appendix B. If the capital cost of the surface drainage component expenditure is deducted from the
balance of the combined five components, the economic rate of return falls to 23 percent. Assuming
that only 50 percent of canal and watercourse lining occurred in areas of saline groundwater would
further reduce the economic rate of rcturn to 16 percent. Based on the same assumptions but using
the economic value of watcr lor thc canial and watercourse lining components the economic rate of
return is calculatcd still lowcr at I I pcICCent.
43.        Recalculation of tlhe ccoionomic ratc ot return of the main components therefore indicates
that in all but the last analysis, whiclh is bascd on vcry conservative estimation of benefits from the
irrigation components and excludes any benefits from canal regulation structures, drainage and flood
protection, the rate of return ior the main components taken together is unlikely to be less than
around 16 percent. I'he analysis does highllight the sensitivity of the economic rate of return for canal
and watercourse lining to the location of' the lined canals and watercourses, which should be used as
the main criteria for inclusion of canials and watercourses in any further irrigation improvement
scheme. No overall economic rate of return was calculated for the project at appraisal.



59
Table 1. Yields of Major Crops in the Punjab 1960 to 1990
Crop                   1960               1970              1980              1990-96
(kg/ha)
Rice ( 64% mill out basis)      1,009              1,765              2,733              3,229
Maize                           1,135              1,555              1,602              1,784
Wheat                           1,244              2,237              2,730              3,715
Kharif Pulses                    320                470               720                720
Rabi Pulses                      800                770               560                740
Kharif Oilseeds                  860                920               1,100            750-1,100
Rabi Oilseeds                    500                550               520                1,000
Sugarcane (Gur)                 3,654              4,117              5,526             6,000
Cotton ( Desi & American)        269                371               309                440
lint
Table 2. Irrigation Sources 1960-1990
Irrigation source         1960                1970                 1980               1990-92
('000 ha)
Canals                     1,180               1.292                1,430               1,669
Tubewells & Wells          829                 1.591               1,939                2,233
Other sources               11                   5                   13                   7
Total                      2,020               2,888               3,382                3,909
Table 3. Typical Gross Marginis for Project Area Crops
Without    Groundnut    Maize   Fodder    Sugar   P Iulses   Paddv   Wheat    Oil              Cotton
project                                        Cane                                  seed
(Rs/Iia)
Gross       3,615          845       1,59()     20.05(0   0.075    15,714   2,670     3,565    2,852
Margin
With
project
Gross       7,440          5,08()   8,020      20,05   | 11,850   15,714   12,860    6,070    2,852
M argin     _____________



60
Table 4. Environmental and Social Impacts of Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project
Component                                 Impacts                              Social          Env.                     Management & Monitoring                                          Lessons Learned
Impact         Impact
I                                                              Rating         Rating
Kandi Darns          Loss  of  veectation  in  submergence  areas  and   Ncutral               + ye           Watertable  monitoring  in  irrigated  areas  required.  Investments can be justified on the basis of tlood control
downstream  irrigated 3reas offset bs reduction in flood                                 Monitoring  of use  of pcsticides  required  to  avcrt   recharge and irrigation benefits. Future projects should
damage  of areas  dovwnstrean.  Soeial  impact  on                                       resistant pest build up. Catchment protection to c(ntitie  consider land redistribution or willingness to allocatc
beneficianes IS ptSitlse but CqUits hetseen downstreamn                                  in protected areas and border plantings in irrigated areas  watcr   rights  equally  as  a  selection  criteria  bor
beneficianes and upstrcam PAP, not considered                                           w%ould improve sustainability                              prioritizing dam interventions to provide greater equity.
Ibhe Forestry or Soil Conservation Department should he
involved fronI the outset in catchment protection.
Kandi Tubeeis:1      Increased sater Sur.tis has resu' ;:d 2 adoption of padd%  -              neutral        Watertable  milonitoring,  pesticide  use  monitoring.  Future projects should consider mcans of maximizing
0- un,slubitie sois  Rc.harge  *0-' ('hoes i risultcs I is                               Research  on  sustainable  tiuhewell  network  (ensity  spread of' benelits to very poor comrunitics by making
atread, adequate  ffi:geh   ros- iic soc7' ;mpacts on                                    necded. liordcr plantings in areas of rising groundwater    willingness to accept redistribution  or to allocate water
co;mmnr-d area benc '; anes,    -       '     men. and                                                                                             rights equally a selection criteria lor intervention. Ietter
mprosernens to dnnk-g s'c:- '??-' -c pl tl  offset                                                                                                 utiderstanding of acceptable tubewell density is needed
b!  :Ick   f rea,.zc  :o  ac cr                  r and                                                                                             given the demand for tltis typc ol'intevecntion
he:weer   t  u-2es
Kandi C'anal         Neza:'  impact  a: ste oc          C5-  da-dge oting to   Neutral        sIeC           Watertable monittring. Watershed protection in areas   A  survey of the command area to dcterminc areas
c,ncentration of t'go  bheb:d  hr c',.    h -  nas not                                   aboec the canal is essential tO  stusainability giveni the   already developed to private tubewefls should have been
heen addressed adec ate!s and *    nah;    rcmalns                                      tlash tlooding Miich is routine in the area. 'rescnt  conducted during design. In some areas it now appears
threatened b! lack of bio!oigcal rneai-C 1b'r osarcrshed                                 sustainability quecstionable                              that a niain henelit of the canal may bc groundwater
protection  or improrements  to  the  cro-j  drainage                                                                                              recharge rathier thati direct irrigation benefit
structure (anal based m-at:,7 appear i; be increasin.
groundwater table  but this-,   of ntct bs  tubc%keil
development in command area Social impacts largetl
neutral owing to prs Ious tubessells
('anal and           Positive  impacts  on  nsing  grotundauter.  Improsed   Neutral           -y             Monitoring ol' satertablc in paddy areas tol enSLre that  Iicreased  paddy  areas are  a result of both  insect
watercourse lining    management   of   distnbutaries   viould    nipro-lie                                   bennlits of lining arc not ofltset by infiltratiot I-ront  problems and genierally poor yields in altemative crops.
environmental benefits. Ixtra %%atcr is being  acd,                                      paddy. Emphasis on improving yield in alternative crops   Fhe project fesign was cotiiplacent in assuming all the
ho"ever, to gro%s paddy at a lowk uater use cfliciencv                                  required. Supplying mitre syater for cotton in April anid  beniefits ot' tihe green revolution had been captured so
rather than extending the irrigahle area                                                 delaying supply for rice until May-June, wsuld allok   that agricultural research  cotnipionets would  not be
early cotton planting and reduced insect attack            necleded
Surlace Drainage    Positive impact on flood control. l-ocal negatise impacts  -ye             +%c            (ireater involvement of the l)cpt of' Invirittment ii  Investrtent ill surlace drains   is essential in south
on  areas  carrying  drains  and  svhere  uncontrolled                                   regulating  drain  use.  Maintenance  of  piezomncter  westeni areas bitt not required for most other areas yet.
discharges tiom industry (e.g. a paper nill near Malouti                                 netivork  for determination  of longer term  betielit  D)rains act as a catalyst for tubewell installation using
afl'ect water quality for downstream users                                              particularly where a switch to paddy 1roim cetton ticciers   private capital.. 13enefits accruc from both annual flood
and salinity control
Subsurface           Positive impact on small areas, although rehabilitation   +c             +-e            Monitoring  of private  sector tubewcll dcselopmnrit   A uselul model for field crops  Future projects must
drainage             will never be complete. Positive social nimpacts on scry                                 within the drained area.                                   address drainage  of saline  lands under high  value
poor households                                                                                                                                    horticultural crops



61
Appendix E
India
Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project (CR. 2076-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Resettlement and Rehabilitation Program I
A. Background
1.        The mission findings are based on the: (a) documents provided to the mission by Kandi
Area Development Administration (KAD)/GOP: (b) field visits to the project affected areas; and
(c) discussions with the concemed district and KAD/GOP officials and consultants.
2.         The main objective of the mission was to: (a) review the achievement of R&R component
against the SAR targets; (b) identify the balance activities and agree an action plan for completing those
balance activities beyond the credit closing date; (c) assess the impact of R&R activities on the living
standards of affected population; and (d) list the lessons that have emerged through the implementation
process.
B. Objectives
3.         The main objective of the R&R Program was to assist GOP to improve, or at least regain, the
living standards ofthe people affected by 9 low dams in Kandi area. The project agreement among IDA,
IBRD and State of Punjab, dated February 9, 1990, contain that GOP shall; (a) carry out socio-economic
surveys of oustees from the Kandi Low Dam submergence areas, as a basis for determining their current
circumiistances and their preferences for rehabilitation; (b) carry out a Program, acceptable to the
Association and the Bank, for the resettlement and rehabilitation of such oustees, such Program to
provide, as a minimum, that oustees will regain their previous standard of livelihood; (c) where oustees
are left with uneconomic agricultural holdings or no farmland ; (i) encourage the beneficiaries of the
proposed irrigation works to provide land to such oustees at a fair market price; and (ii) by
December 31, 1992, review with the Association and the Bank the above arrangements, and thereafter
adjust such arrangements as necessary, taking into account the comments of the Association and the
Bank; and (d) carry out the resettlement and rehabilitation measures set forth in sub-paragraphs (b) and
(c) above six months prior to the impounding of each relevant dam.
C. R&R Components
4.         The R&R component in this project include the persons affected by land acquisition and loss
of houses and other assets for construction of 9 low dams in the Kandi area. At the time of Credit
Closing date (July 31, 1998) only 7 dams were either completed or under construction. The land
acquisition and resettlement for other two dams--Patiari and Thana is yet to commence. The land
acquired for various components includes, dam body, reservoir, spillway/escape channel, distributory
system, approach road, resettlement colony, etc. The total land acquired for seven dams was 504.46 ha.
' Prepared by Mr. I.U.B. Reddy, Resettlement and Rehabilitation Specialist, World Bank, New Delhi.



62
The number of families lost houses were 106. The number of titleholders affected due to land acquisition
was estimated to be around 3,500. However, most of the lands acquired for the project include either of
uncultivated or forest land. Further, it was revealed that most of them were not dependent entirely for
livelihood on the lands acquired for the project.
5.         A policy for resettlement and rehabilitation of the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) was
formulated before commencement of the project. The key features of this policy include: (a) allotment
of residential plots of a minimum size of 200 m2 to those who loose their houses; (b) full payment of
compensation for lost assets in accordance with the modified Land Acquisition Act of 1984; (c) payment
of compensation for loss of houses at common PWD schedule rates; (d) provision of transportation to
shift the belongings to the new sites; (e) training to impart the technical skills to take up self-
employment; and (f) development of basic civic amenities in the new resettlement colonies. A district
level Resettlement Implementation Committee was formed under the chairrnanship of Deputy
Commission to oversee the implementation progress.
6.         The baseline socio-economic surveys were conducted by Punjab Agricultural University and
Punjab State Institute of Institute of Public Administration. Unfortunately, the study results did not give
an accurate information on the details of number of families affected. The consultants have not identified
properly those who are economically affected. In some cases the entire village has been surveyed while
in some other cases the affected and unaffected persons were not shown separately. As a result the
accurate number of families/persons affected were not available. Therefore, it has not be possible to
arrive at the exact number of families affected by an individual dam. Based on the finalization of
compensation awards the number of titleholders affected were identified.
D. Sumniary of the Mission's Findings
7.         The mission expressed concern over the slow progress in implementation of R&R
component. The assessment of implementation progress of R&R Program reveals that although notable
progress was made during the last two years. overall a substantial portion of this component is yet to be
completed. The key activities that have been successfully completed include: (a) completion of
providing drinking water facilities in the resettlement colony under Damsal dam; (b) completion of the
construction of an approach road from dam site to Mirzapur village; and (c) a substantial progress in
completing the bridge across Budki river near Mirzapur village. The timely resettlement of persons
affected by Jainti dam and the construction of an alternative approach road under Siswan dam have
received a setback due to inordinate delays in obtaining the clearance for cutting of trees and forest
clearance. There are several other R&R activities that are yet to be completed. These include: (a)
competition of land acquisition process and final payment of compensation under all the dams; (b) timely
resettlement of people under Jainti dam and construction alternative approach road under Siswan dam
before actual impounding of dams take place; (c) preparation and implementation of land acquisition and
R&R activities under Patiari and Thana dams; and (d) Completion of on-going impact evaluation study
and subsequently undertake any remedial measures that may be proposed in the impact evaluation study.
In order to complete the balance activities of land acquisition and rehabilitation of affected persons, GOP
need about Rsl22.76 million or $3.06 million. The performance of resettlement component against SAR
targets is summarized in Table E. 1.
E. Current Status of Implementation Land Acquisition and Payment of Compensation
8.         Out of the 9 dams proposed to be constructed under this project, the land acquisition process
has been initiated only in case of 7 dams by credit closing date (July 31, 1998). The total land required



63
for these 7 dams was 504, 46 ha affecting about 3,500 titleholders. The current status of land acquisition
is summarized in Table E.2.. The land has been acquired using emergency clause of Section 17(l) of the
Land Acquisition Act. This has been done mainly to possess the land at the earliest and then complete
the other formalities. The owners were paid 80 percent of the estimated compensation pending the
completion of land acquisition process. The overall progress indicate that only about half of the affected
persons were paid compensation. The mission expressed concem over the slow progress in completing
the land acquisition process and timely payment of compensation. In this regard the mission drew the
attention of the policy provision where in it is mentioned that "Government of Punjab would
ensure that full payment of compensation would be made prior to taking possession of land in
accordance with the Land Acquisition Act of 1984."
Displacement and Resettlement
9.         The number of families displaced for all the seven dams is 106, mostly by the Damsal and
Jainti dams. The details of displacement and resettlement are furnished in Table E.3. The persons
affected by the Damsal dam were resettled at the new site, while the persons to be affected by Jainti dam
are yet be shifted to the new site. The development of resettlement colony under the Jainti dam has
received a setback due to inordinate delays in obtaining the permission from the local Forest Department
to cut the trees. All preparatory activities for the development of basic infrastructure and allotment of
plots have been completed. Any further delay in initiating construction of basic amenities and starting
construction of houses may lead to totally cutting-off of the affected village because of impounding of the
dam. The mission strongly recommends that the permission for cutting of trees from the Forest
Department should be expedited without any further delay so as complete the shifting of people before
the impounding takes place.
Progress of Economic Rehabilitation
10.       The objective of the economic rehabilitation was to identify the affected people who need
assistance for supplementing their incomes. Under this Program the affected persons were informed
about the various on-going government Programs and asked for their interest and preference. All those
who have come forward were provided assistance in brining under this Program. The schemes covered
under this Programii include, old age pension, handicapped pension, loans for activities such as dairy
farming, ban making machine, setting up a petty shop, training for fish farming etc. Out of the 178
persons who come forward, so far 70 were provided assistance for economic rehabilitation (Table E.4.).
Progress of Providing Infrastructure Facilities in the Affected Villages
11.        As part of R&R Program 11 activities such as providing drinking water, construction of
approach and intemal roads, electricity, bridges, upgrading of school building, etc,. were planned. The
two activities, installation of 18 hand pumps in Mehangrewal village and construction of an approach
road from the dam site to Mirzapur village have been completed, while the construction of bridge on
Budki near Mirzapur village is in progress and expected to be completed by July 31, 1998. The other key
activity, i.e., construction of alternative approach road to the existing road under Siswan dam has
received a setback because of want of forest clearance. The mission noted with concern that the delay in
construction of this road may eventually lead to cut-off of the existing road during the forthcoming
monsoon. The details of physical and financial progress of all planned infrastructure activities are
summarized in Table E.5.



64
Monitoring and Evaluation
12.       KAD/GOP had commissioned the Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration,
Chandigarh to carry out the impact of resettlement Program on the affected persons. The main objective
of M&E is to examine the R&R measures implemented with respect to RAP in case of those dams where
the R&R Program has been completed and determine the extent to which the objectives laid down in the
R&R policy have been achieved, and in particular, the impact of R&R measures on the living standards
of the affected people. The mission held discussions with the consultants to review the progress and
offered suggestions for successful completion of the study. The impact evaluation results will be
available in about three months.
Action Program for Completing Balance Activities
13.       In order to enable KAD/GOP to continue the implementation of the balance activities, the
mission reviewed with the officials of KAD/GOP responsible for implementation of R&R component and
identified the following activities which still need to be completed beyond the credit closing date
(July 31, 1998). The balance activities that are still remaining are summarized in Table E.6.
14.       In order to complete the above balance activities an estimated amount of Rsl22.67 million,
or $3.06 million, is required both for the on-going and proposed activities under Patiari and Thana dams.
The details are described in Table E.7.
Lessons Learned
15.       The following lessons have emerged thorough the implementation of R&R Program in this
project. These lessons should be kept in mind while formulating the future R&R Programs.
16.       Lesson 1: Government Policy on R&R. The R&R policy adopted by the GOP for the
project has helped in incorporating R&R activities in the project implementation. The lesson learned is
that an y R& R Program must have a policy for proper implemenitatioln spelling out the details of
variouis categories of project persons, broad principles, criteria for payment of compensation for
various lost assets anid implemenitationi arrangements.
17.       Lesson 2: Capacitv building. Appointment of R&R nodal officer to oversee the
implementation of R&R Program, although late in the implementation process has improved the co-
ordination with the engineers of various dams, land acquisition officials, district implementation
committee and officials from other associated departments. The quality of data base management and
progress reports were also improved after the appointment of R&R nodal officer. Thle lesson learned is
thtatfor successful implemnenitationi of any R&R Progranm, the capacity of the borrower to address
such issues is very key for timely implementtation.
18.       Lesson 3: Implementation Co-ordination Committee. The implementation committee
headed by a distinct Collector has helped in overcoming some of the operational difficulties during the
project implementation. The key issues resolved through the implementation committee include:
(a) resolving the compensation rates; (b) explaining and convincing the PAPs on benefits and actions for
minimising adverse impacts; and (c) encouraging the participation of PAPs through the implementation
committee meetings, etc. The lesson learned is that an effective implementation committee consisting
of key stakeholders headed by a senior officer will go a long way in timely implementation, monitoring
and making alternations from time to time to overcome the operational difficulties.



65
19.       Lesson 4: Use of Emergency Clause for Land Acquisition. Emergency clause under
Section 17 (1) of the Land Acquisition Act was used in this project for acquisition of lands. Use of an
emergency clause for land acquisition has deprived the affected persons an opportunity to put forward
their objections and suggestions for acquisition of land for public purpose. This clause also prolonged the
finalization of awards and payment of final compensation. Thie lesson learned is to avoid the use of
emergency clause for land acquisition in future to avoid tlhe delay in payment offinal coo pensation
and also provide an opportunity to PAPs to express their objection and suggestions.
20.        Lesson 5: Co-ordination of Land Acquisition and R&R Program with Civil Works.
There was no co-ordination between the time table of resettlement activities and civil works. As a result
the payment of compensation for lost assets and implementation of R&R activities could not be
completed by the time the civil works were completed. The lesson learned is that all land acquisition
and resettlement should be completed prior to the start of civil works.
21.        Lesson 6: Linking Economic Rehabilitation with Government Programs. The progress
and success of economic rehabilitation Program is far from satisfactory because of linking with the
government Programs. Further, most of the affected persons did not come forward to avail the benefits
under economic rehabilitation since it was linked with government Programs. Thte lesson learned is that
any economnic rehabilitation Programs mu(st have separate a design, timneframe, and budget for timely
implementation. The government Programs usually have a definite target group, criteria for eligibility,
limited budget, and long process in identificatioij of benmeficiaries. Thierefore, economic rehabilitation
Program as part of R&R should always be de-linkedfron the government Programs for effective and
speedy implemenitation.
22.        Lesson 7: Participatory Approach in Decision Making The allotment of plots in the new
resettlement colony under Jainti dam was done in a participatory manner allowing the affected families
themselves to earmark the plots to all the eligible adults according to their choice so as to retain the social
fabric of the community. Tlhelelsson learned is that participation of project affected persons (PAPs) in
decision making wi'ill go a long way fJr peacefil resettling of PAPs.
23.        Lesson 8: Inter-agency Co-ordination. The development of alternative resettlement
colony under Jainti dam and construction of altemative approach under Siswan dam have suffered
considerable delays because of inordinate delay in obtaining the forest clearance permission. Lack of
proper co-ordination between irrigation and forest department has led to considerable delay in
implementation of R&R Program. Thte lesson learned is that the implementationi of any R&R Program
requires the involvementt of various line departments. Thterefore, an effective coordination with other
line agencies is essentialfor timely implemitentations
24.        Lesson 9: Continued Bank Supervision. The continued Bank's supervision in the last two
years of implementation has improved the implementation of R&R component. As a result of Bank's
continued supervision, some of the issues such as expediting the finalization compensation rates,
finalization of awards, resolving issues related to compensation rates, finalization of RAPs, identification
of needs of PAPs and commissioning an impact evaluation study, etc., were addressed in time. The
lesson learnt is thiat continued Bank supervision through assistance in designing and implementation
will contribute to the successful and timely implementation.



66
F. Actions Agreed for Completing Implementation of R&R Component
25.       As per the Legal Agreement, the construction of nine low dams in the Kandi area, including
resettlement and rehabilitation of affected families, was to be completed by Credit closure on 31 July,
1998. Due to various reasons, the implementation of R&R Program could not be completed. The
construction of two dams (Patiari and Thana) were yet to be commenced. The resettlement activities
related to other seven dams were also not fully completed. The outstanding R&R activities are outlined
in Tables E.5. and E.7.of this Appendix. The mission agreed with KAD/GOP the following actions for
the completion of R&R component beyond the credit closing date.
(a)  KAD/GOP agreed to the mission's clarification that all remaining R&R activities
related to the nine low dams in the Kandi area will be carried out in the manner agreed
with the Bank and outlined in the Legal Agreements.
(b)  KAD/GOP agreed to forward the Bank an updated progress report on the balance
activities described in E.5. and E.7 as on July 31, 1998 (the credit closing date ) by
August 10, 1998. Thereafter the progress reports for both physical and financial will
be sent for every calendar quarter by the tenth of the following month until the
completion all balance activities for Bank's information and record.
(c)  KAD/GOP will confirm the Bank by August 10, 1998 the details of the timetable
for completing the balance activities and budget commitment.



67
Table E.1.: Key Resettlement and Rehabilitation Performance Indicators
(as of May31, 1998)
SI.No                        R&R Component                              Performance in
Percentage*
(as of May 31, 1998)
1        Proportion of number of awards for which Section 4 and 6 of land    75.00
acquisition notifications were issued (%)
2        Proportion of number compensation Awards announced (%)              56.25
3        Proportion of area for which compensation paid to the land owners   48.56
(%)
4        Proportion of Families provided  alternative  accommodation or      55.66
made self relocation by PAPs
5        Proportion of families either provided or initiated economic        39.30
rehabilitation measures
6        Proportion of extent of infrastructLre facilities completed as part of
R&R activities
(a) Physical                                                        20.50
(b) Financial                                                        5.50
'* The information related to only seven dams. The land acquisition and R&R Program under the remaining two
dams is yet to be initiated.
Table E.2.: Status of Land Acquisition and Payment of Compensation
(is of Mayv 31, 1998)
SI.  Name of the    Total Area    No. of title    Area for    Area for    Area for   Area for which
Ng      Dam          Required       holders       which        which        which    owners are paid
(ha)$       affected     Section 4    awards are  funds are    compensation
and 6 issued   announced   deposited
with LAO
1        2              3             5            6            7            8              9
1   Damsal            100.07 14)        623      86.78 (10)    77.90(8)       88.31            77.41
2.   Perch            68.22 (10)       1890       68.22 (8)    68.01(9)       68.22            68.01
3.   Chohal            63.72 (6)        279       61.95(4)      6.64(2)        6.64             6.64
4.   Mirzapur          65.62 (6)        394       64.15(4)      7.34(3)       51.75            44.41
5   Saleran            48.51 (4)        1**       48.51(4)     48.51(4)       48.51            48.51
6   Siswan             94.83 (4)         57       92.31(3)      5.25(1)        5.25               ---
7   Jainti             63.49 (4)       117*        8.41(3)         ----          ---              ---
Total               504.46        3361         430.33       231.65      268.68          244.98$
(100.00)                   (85.30)      (45.92)     (53.26)          (48.56)
"The figures in parentheses indicate the number of awards
2'The figures in parentheses under "Total" row indicate percentage against the total area required.
3 "$" indicate the consolidated figure for all components such as dam body, spillway, reservoir, approach road,
escape channel, etc.
4/ "$" Some of them received only 80 percent of compensation amount pending the finalization of awards.
5/ *Numbers relate to number of families. The exact number of titleholders to be affected will be determined after
finalization of awards.
6' ** Numbers entire land belong to panchayat



68
Table E.3.: Details of Displacement and Resettlement
(as of May 31, 1998)
Name of   Total Number of         No. of      No. of families    No. of families
No   the Dam          families         families        provided          vet to be
displaced       resettled on    alternative        resettled
their own    accommodation
_ ___________  ___________________  _______________  by   the   project
I .  Damsal             55               19              36
2.  Perch                -
3.  Chohal               i                1
4.  Mirzapur             3                3
5   Saleran             -
6   Siswan
7   Jainti              47                                                47*
Total              106 (100.0)    23 (21.70%)       36 (34.00)       47 (44.3%)
'The figures in parentheses indicate percentages against the total number of displaced families
2 * The number families to be allotted plots will be 75 ( includinig adult sons who are eligible for
allotment plots as per the policy)
3'** Indicative number. the data is being updated.
Table E.4.: Details of Economic Rehabilitation
(,as of Afala 31, 1998)
Name of the Dam      No. of families      No. of families
came forward for   provided economic
No                              economic          rehabilitation
rehabilitation
1.      Damsal                       4                   4
2.      Perch               _
3.      Chohal                       29                  20
4.       Mirzapur                    42                  28
5       Saleran
6       Siswaan                      77
7       Jainti                       26                  18
Total                      178                  70
(100.0%)            (39.3%)
The figure in parentheses indicate the proposition of families provided
rehabilitation against those come forward for availing the benefits



69
Table E.S.: Details of Development of Various Civic Amenities under R&R Program
No                Details                Implementation Target    Achievement as on 31-
Mav-98
Phvsical     Financial      Physical    Financial
(Rs.                      (Rs.
Millions)                  million)
1.   Installation of hand pumps in      18 Nos.         0.15           18          0.15
Mehangrewal Village under Damsal
Dam
2     Construction of Approach road to  2.14 Kms        1.17        2.14 Kmns       1.17
Mirzapur Village
3     Construction of Approach road under  4.00 Kms     15.00           -            -
Siswan Village
4     Construction of Bridge on Budki   one Jon         8.00          25%          0.300
Khad near village Mirzapur
5     Water Supply Schenme to           One Job          1.45           -            -
resettlement colony under Jainti dam
6     Electricity supply to resettlement  One Job        1.00           -            -
colony under Jainti darn
7    Approach road to resettlement      One Job         0.40            -            -
colony under Jainti dam
8     Internal roads and drainage in the  One Job       0.70            -            -
resettlement cloy under Jainti dam
9     Upgradation of Primary school in  One Job         0.80            -            -
Villager Soonk
10   Constructioni of Panclhayat Ghar   One Job         0.64            -            -
I I   Construction Worship places in    One Job         0.25            -            -
resettlement colony under Jainti dam
Total                                 11          29.56         2.25          1.62
activities    (100.00%)   (20.50%)      (5.50%)
(1000%)
The figure in parentlheses indicate percentage of achievement against the total estimated amount



70
Table E.6.: Details of Balance Activities
(as of Meiy 31, 1998)
No                          Balance Activities                       Remarks
I    No. of Awards for which Section 4 and 6 is yet to be issued ( No.)*         21
2    No. of Awards which are yet be to be announced (No.)*                       30
3    No. of families to be resettled (under Jainti dam)                          75
4     No. of persons yet to be provided assistance under economic                108
rehabilitation package
5.    Preparation and implementation of Resettlement Action Plan Thana           43
Dam ( No of families)
6.    Completion of Construction of Bridge on Budki Khad village near  Under construction
Mirzapur Village
7     Construction of alternative approach road under Siswan dani    Delayed due to Forest
clearance
8    Construction of Water supply schemes, elect-icity, approach road,  Delayed due to Forest
internal road, drainage system, Panchayat Ghar, religious places and  clearance
upgrading of primary school in the resettlement colony under Jainti
dam. 
Table E.7.: Budget Estimates for Land Acquisition and R&R Activities
(ais ofMciv 31, 1998)
SI.No                  Activity                 Total amount  Total amount  Total amount
required    spent as on 31   required to
(Rs. millions)    May, 1998    complete the
(Rs. millions)   balance
works
.(Rs. millions)
I       Compensation for Land Acquisition            97.00         27.00**         70.00
2        Construction of approach road from dam      1 .17           1.17
site to Mirzapur village
3       Installation of Hand pumps in Mehangrewal    0.15           0.15
village
4.      Development of infrastructure facilities in  5.24             -             5.24
the proposed Jainti resettlement colony
5       Construction of alternative Approach under   15.00            -            15.00
Siswan Dam
6.      Completion of on-going bridge construction   8.00           0.30            7.70
under Mirzapur dam
7       Compensation for loss of houses under        3.00             -             3.00
Jainti dam
8       Cost of on-going M&E Study                   0.26           0.03            0.23
9.      Development of Resettlement colony under     5.00             -             5.00
Thana dam
10      Compensation for loss of houses under        2.50                          2.50
Thana dam
11. 0    Contingency                                 14.00                         14.00
Total                                       151.32         28.65          122.67
" * including Patiari and Thana dams
2'**The amount deposited with Land Acquisition Officer. Out of this only Rs. 10.1 8million was paid to the
land owners.



71
Appendix F
-r14 5a0.
sub: -               Zrr1gatAb 'wrl  eon & Dranage Project
CI  2076/ 3144 DlU )
_ JEjmimentation Couplition "Port
glJsPo refor your rZevied ZCR seai  wde Your letter
dated June 7,$999.* ROvISed ICA 1S dzamtcally feoant frs Draft
=L a ent eo tx *uUwse vAde your letter dated Oct. 13 199B. Youc
CcomentA of U*saS#AfmzctQry overall evaluation outc-e 1a  ot2ter
*iMlaz coM*tS, icn :waed XCR &ac not acceptable a. these a&- ne
baed On fact#/rocord. We would lhik  to discuss the issue before
.nallsaton if She bnkc ICR and herr.o'ers camntse.
Principal Secretary  ZrrqttAto3
ov,t. .g PunJ.>.Chsniq&rzh



APpendix G
72
GOVERNMENT OF PUN,JAB
DEPARTMENT OF IRRIGATION
To
Sh.S .Rajagopal,
Sr.Water Resources Specialist,
The World Bank,70 Lodi Estate,
New De.hi-110003.
Memo No.PS/2SZ/98/ /22 q
Dated Chan-4iga-h,the 29th oct.,1998.
Siub,ect:    Punjab  I;.rigation  &  Drainage  Project
Phase-1I (Credit No.2076-IN)-3or:ower's
Evaluation       and      cor_ments      on
Im:nlemen-at'on Corm-letion Reoart(_CR)
Ref erence   you=   letter   dated   1Ith
October,1998, on the subjec-t cited above.
2.           The  ovt. o- -Punjab is grateful t c the
WorI| J   sBank  Authorities   fo-   having   provided
-'a-iL'.ial assistance to commlete Punja_ Ig- cai;on
and Draimnace 'r-ojects. With the dedica-ad e-fforts
o6 _..e             th,neeers, ths dena:tntent has been able to
aci.ieve  u'ii satcn  of  funds  to  the  extent  W;Z.
a pprox.^95   h e State is  fully satisfied with tnie
pe-.onctan  of   utilization    and   construction
acti.vity o.f World Bank funds and majo- ains have
been achieved durin  its  implementat_ion. Sm.e of
the activities like6 Zlodernisation of Canals, Lining
of Water Courses, Canal Regulation Structure, Xandi
Cana2.s, Kandi Dams and Kandi Tubewells have been
ablse  to  achiLeve  fully  the  defined  targets  as
env4sged  by  the  WJorl d  Bank. The population  of
pui-jab, w?ere these =:7oJec=s have been impleuented
like Kandi  Canals, Kandi  Dams, Lining  of Water
Courses,etc.    have   started   reaping   the  full



73
-2-
benefits of project. But at. the same time? some o:
the  aspects  of  this  programme  like  T:aining,
Communication  and Mini  Eydel Stations could not
come up to the expected targets.
3.          Considering  overall  experience  which
the Department has aai ned from  the implementation
of  this  project  from  the  year  1991  to  31st
July,1998,    it    is    submitted    that    th e
manzower,department.  and   the   State   is   fully
com=itted to undertaXe the p-roject as extension of
the World 3ank Phase-II project. The State and the
public stands  :to gain a lot if another project i8
evaluated  and  sanction   is   accorded  for  the
implementation of the same.
However, detailed Evaluation of the
project  and   comments   on   the   imp1ewentation
completion report is enclosed herewith.
(Sikramjit Singh)
Principal Secretary irrigation.



74                                     Appendix G
PUNJAB IRIGATION & DRAINAGE PROJECT (CREDIT-2076-IN)
IWLEMEN7TATION COMPLETION REPORT
(BORROWER'S EVALUATION)
1.0   INTRODUCTION
Punjab Irrigation & Drainage project (credit-2076 LN, Loan-3144) is the second
World Bank aided irrigaion project executed by Govt. of Punjab. First project was
'Kandi Wateshed and Area Development Project', which was closed in year 1986.
Encouraged by the success of first project, Govt of Punjab took up this second project
for increasing agricultural production in the state by increasing efficiency of existing
irrigation network.
As per staff appraisal report of Nov. 19,1989; the project was expected to provide
additional irrigation potential of about 1,12,000 Ha. Estimated cost of the project based
on June 1989 prices fo- similar works in Punjab was es:ited to be Rs. 4597 Million
(US S 246.5 Million). 7ne project cost included physical and prices contungency during 8
yeaes of implementation pernod.
World Bank vide agreement dated 9.2.1990; committed credit of US S 150.00
Million and IBRD loan of US S 15.00 Million for the project. The rest amoun: was to be
financed by the Borrowers himself.
The project has been executed by Punjab Irrigation Department, which has a very
competent team of design and field engineers and staff for mnaging intensive irgation
nctwork of the State. However, services of Punjab State Tubewell Corporation, a semi
autonomous statc agency, have been utilized for lining of watercourses and for tubewell
co:nponents, Punjab Energy Development Agency has worked on installaton of Mini
Hyde] Units.
.0    PROJECT DESIGN
Punjab is pre-dominantly an agricultural Ste but wi limited water resources.
Existing surface water resources were being fully exploited with the existing irngation
infastructure existing in the State at the start of the project but there was necd for more
inigation potenial .An- other bottleneck in agricultural development had been frequent
flood damages to crops. 80% of Punjab am is prone to floods during rainy seuon.
Furher, about 1,19,000 Ha out of total cultivable area of about 4.00Million Hi was
identified to be waterlogged area. Vaxious components of the project had been designed
to ta=kle these field bottdcnecks with four objectives in view. These are as detailed below:



75
[S.No. IObjectives                                      Sub-project (comiponent of the project)
1.   To improve the irrigation potential of the existing   'a)  Liaing or Canals/fiLwributares.
Irrigation system by reducing losses.         b)  Lining of Watercourses.
c)  Modnization of Caaal regularion
* 2.   For development of fnancially most backward area  a)  Constrict  of Low Dams over
(Kndi arm) of Punjab.                             flashy rivulet.
b)  Cstru=ion of Kandi Caaal.
c)  Costruction of Tube wells in Kandi
Area Beyond command of Canal and
Low Dams.
3.   To address the impact of rising water table in the    a)  Construe on of New Drains/.
State of Punjab.                                  RMse:;ionmg of existing drains.
b)  Extensive Pilot works.
c)  Ex=ensive Pilo: studieg.
d)  Lining of Canals and Watercourses.
4.   lnritutional Developmnct.                      a)  Development of . Compuer Aided
Design, computer-based ananzgement
information     system       and
commuziction network.
b)  Establishing an  inservice traming
inF,ta
The project desigrn was thus more appropriate to the requirements of the State.
The size and scope of:.he project had also been quite appropriate since it matched
well with available finds as per the five-year plans of the sre and also matched the.
existing manpower with the department,
3.0    PROJECT APPRAISAL
There has been no change in the objectives of the project during the
implementation period. However, there have been some chanees in the size and scope of
the project.
The Appraisal rep)rt provides -thit lining of channels will be restricted to (;)
Saline ground water area  (ii) Channels in sandy soils and (iii) reach where special
*    operational problems existed. The lining was done strictly according to these criteria
except in case of channels, which were partly in problematic zones and partly in good
zones. In such cases ining has been done in fll lengths since it was not technically
advisable to line only part of such channels.



76
Originally designed quantities of works of lining of Canals, liing of water
courses and of digging tube wells in Kandi area were completed well before the closing
date of the project. In the rneantime, the exchange rate had changed from about Rs. 151-
per dollar to about Ra. 401- per dollar. It was feht that significant portion of credi would
remain untilized. Govt. of Punjab, therefore, proposed increase in the size of these
components of the project to which World Bank bad aLzeed. Thus additional quantities of
these components valued at about Rs. 950 Million were executed which further enhanced
irriation potential in the State.
The work of digging of New Drains could not proceed as per targets mainly due
to reluctance on part of some of the farmers to allow digging of drains on their land. So,,
size of this component had to be curtailed. We hope that these reluctant farnmers would
agmee to such new drains in future after they have seen benefits of some new drains dug
under this project. Secondly, sub suface drainage system was built by using link aud lR
.schemes as these were considered more cost efecive.
The component of Communication Network could be executed partly because that
WRas  new high technology area requiring expertise and consultancy which was available
in limited sphere only. Most of the procurement actions were cdznpleted by closing date.
The =,u&l installation is likely in due course of tirre.
4.0   PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATIOIN
Progress of works during first h&lf of the imrlemena;ion period had been slow
mainly' due to disturbed condition in the State. But shonfall of first half was covered up
by accelerated progress in second half period. The project has been fully executed with
four months extension of the project.
The credi. for accelerated progress in second half period goes equally to the
sustained monitoring by World Bank Review Mission. Half yearly World Bank review
Mission had been very helpful in strengthening our weak links from time to time. They
idenified our weak points during their field visits and guided us on the basis of their rich
experience. The disbursemnents had also been quite fast which helped us in maintaining a
healthy cash fiow for accelerated progress,
The performance of State had also been equally good. Despite Sirain on State
budget due to disturbed conditions in the State in early stages of project, requisite finds
wer made available to the project. In the second half of the project period, the State
provided funds much -more than what were onginally planned. Over all. Govt. funded
abou; Rs. 3.0 BilJion compared to commitment of about Rs. 1.6 Billion at appraisal.
Sound Enancial mnagement was. enforced in the State for easuriig optimum utilization
of Stae funds. Design and field Engineer, and staff worked efficiently to achieve
acceleated progress with existing infrastructure and nanpower.



77
* S.0   PROJECTRRESULTS
Revised physical targets have been more or less achieved for most of the
Enzineering compoaents. There has, however, been some slippage in respect of works of
institutional development A sum of Rs. 7857 Million (including Rs. 950 Millions.due to
increas in siZe & scope of the project) has been spent against appraisal estiuate of Rs.
4597 Million. Objec;ive wise progress and direct physical benefits have been as below.
5.1         1072 Kms. of Carnals/Distributaries and 5184 Kms. of Water Courses have been
lined under this project. 295 Canal Regulation Structures consisting of 88 Cross
Regulators, 161 No. Head Regulators, 26 No. Escapes and 20 No. Auto Gauge Recorders
have been installed. These works have created additional irrigation potential of about
1,40,000 Ha compared to tw-get of about 1,12,000 Ha. It is because the size of the project
was subsequently increased.
On the basis of available statis;ical data, about 1,01.000 Ha of additional srea
received irrigation ir the year 1996. Area under paddy crop has also increased due to
increase in availability of water. Still mfore important advantage has been proper feeding
of'tails, which have now started gexing designed supply of wazcr.
i.2         Drainage improvement was a r;ix of rehabilitation and new drainage. Some 108
Kms. of existing drains have been resectioned and about 120 Kms. of new drains have
been dug along with 202 bridges and 548 other structures. Li addition. sub surfice drains
were dug in four water logged localized depressed areas. Eicacy of the updated drainage
system has been established during the rainy season of 1998 when storm water was
efficiently evacuated without causing loss to crops/abadi.
While the d.ainage improvements have certainly been achieved in the vicinity of
resectioned drains, its long-term effect would be visible only alter some time.
5.3         Six No. Low Dams have been consnucted against target of the Nine Dams
creating irrigation potential of 4883 Ha and providing reiief to adjoining farm Jand from
flood damages. Construction of 7h darn was in progress on closing date of the project.
The progress on low dams was hindered due to unreectzd delays in land acquisition,
forest clearance firn  Govt. of India, R &g R setlemem  and lot of litigation by
landouwers.
Kandi Canal has been completed in all respects providing irrigation facihies to
area Of 20,000 Ha. However, it suffered dainages due to foods during 1995 and 1996,
which were subsequently repaired.
Last 8 years have been golden period of Kandi Area. Project not only provided
irrigation facilities to the area; it also provided employment opportunity to local people..
There is now marked development in t4o area. Land prices have multiplied manifold.
Large number of orcbards has. oc-i_p itharea; Aens of communications and items
of household have markedly improved. The project has improved the socio-economic
cond..ions of people of Kandi area and has added to grain production in the State.



78
54            Building complex for the 'Punjab Irrigation Management and Taining Intitute' has been
buil. Facultv and other infrastructure are likely to be in posirtio soor. 36 refresber courses have
alfeady been conducted with the help of guest faculty with a cu-nculum focused on the design,
consuction and operational needs of the lxgation Department.
Su5ficien: progress has been achieved in some of studies under taken by Director, Water
Resources and Punjab Agncuhure 'University. Though in some studies the break through has not:
yet beca achieved because of unexpected field condiions.
Studies conducted by Punjab Agriculture Universtv are very useful in providing advice
on aspecs such as cotjuncuve use, its wUr=ion, soil salinity and use of sodic and saline water
in comon-wheat roation and sugarcane. The i2ter-relationship between water qualty and soil
properties were worked our for its vider applicability. A purpose built network of ground water
observnaion poirns and additional piezometeric tubes for quality rn=itoring at a 25 Kmr. square
spacing nas been partially completed by Water Resourcs Directorate by insallation of 574 No.
Piezometer tubes and 20 AWLR fined on themn This work will provide very reliable data base for
ground water monitoring and its quality detcmmation.
Construction of new administrative building has been completed and office
moderniation has been partiaLly achieved through installation of computers and fax macnnmes
tc. Computer Aided Desigus have also been adopted.
6.0  LESSONS LEARNT
1.   P rmation of beneficiaries association should be encouraged before taking up lining of any
watercourse.
2.     For speedy land acquisition and payment of compensation thereof, a high level
cornrnree be constinited to acquire land through the process of negotiations.
3.     services of R & R experts be availed for speed rehabilitation and resettlement of project
:fecTed persons as per project guidelines.
4.    Deatiled and long-term ground water studies be made before deciding any new sub
surface drainage system in the State.
5.     Suficient O&M fiuds be provided for sustaining the created and exising infrastructure.
There sbould be regular, monitonng and evaluaton of satus of structures to ensure
optimum utili;zation of O&M funds.
6.    Water'balance snudies be made in Kandi area to assess relative use of kandi Canal and of
deep tube wells.
7,    Tnere is necessity to provide adequate preventive measures such as vegeation atchment
protection to protec. Kandi Canal from future flood damage.
8.    Short re-orientation training be arrw-ed for Executing Staff to wsure adhererca -to
World  anik prescribed procedues/guide lines in place of established practices in the
State.
9.    In view of differear conditions in developing coutries like India; ICB procedure of
procurement is applied in onJy high tech arus.



79
PUNJAB IRRIGATION & DRAINAGE PROJECT (CREDIT. 2076-IN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(BORROWER'S COMMENTS.)
1.0 REGARDING FUJNDS OF O&M
In para 4 on.page IV of the report it has been mentioned that current policy of
providing farmers with free irrigation water and electricity for pumping is a comnibutory
cause of the shortage of O&M funds. It is furthlr mentioned that for this reason. the
projec='s sustainability is rated as uncertain.
You are requested to review these comments in light of following explanation:
"We confirm tha; currem policy of Govt. of providing free irrigation water and
electici-y to farmers will not be allowed to adversely affect O&M  funding. 0r
budgetary allocations for O&M  are always need based  and on merit. These are not
dependent on revenue earnings of a particular department or oroject. Govt. is confiden. of
meering -te fund requirements -fom existing/alternate revenue sources.
Government has now approved the revised norms for O&M funds of Canals.
Revised norms are about Rs. 3071- per Hectare of cultivable commanded area of Canals
on 1996-97 level. These are reflected in the 'Plan of operation and Maintenance Manual'
a cop) o.- which has aLready been submitted to World Bank as well.
i: is fiuher pointed out that the policies of the Government are quite dvnamic.
These policies continue under active consideration of the Gov:. for making amendments-
from =:e to time in the overall inzerest of State & Public Interest".
2.0  REGARDING RELEASE OF FUNDS DURG IMPLeMENTATION PERIOD.
Li para 5 & 6 on Page IV, it has beer. mentioned tha tiere was persistent problem
in relezse of budget.
This does not appea- to be correct re5ection. We request you to review your
commen-s in light of following clarification:
Govt. of Punjab had suficient funds to meet its commitment of Rs. 1.6 Billion as
per appraisal report. Afterwards, due to slow progres in the !Irst half of implemcntaeion
period and also because of devaluation of rupee from Rr. 16/- per Dollar to about Rs. 40/-
per Dollar, the amount of our commitment increased from Ps. 16 Billion to Rs. 3.00
Billion. Since we had priority for this World Bank aided project over other state projects,
we gered ourselves to meet even this increased requirements of finds. We had also
enforced tight rope financial management to ensure optimum utilization of State finds.



80
3.0  REGARDING RALAILrATION OF  STING DRAIAGE SYSTM
Please refer para 5 on page 2 of the report. The comments that "As designed,
draina-e improvement was a balanced mix of rehabilitation and new drainage. This was
given up in favour of whRt could be called a deferred maintenance progamme o' Icl-ring
-        existing drains may please be reviewed in light of following:-
It was one of the objectives of the drainage component of the project to pUt the
existing surface drainage network on a scientific footing in order to provide relief-to the
cropped area for water Ioggng. In the pre-project stage the surftce drainage network was
designed on the bzsis. of "BOSTON SOCETY FORMULA" which is an Empirical
relationship derived more thln 3 decades ago, when the science of hydrology had not
seen much developments. Thdis  formula was fr-ther adjusted by the  rrigation
Departnent Engineers at various times by adding factors based on field experience, to
bring it to a level where it could meeT with the requirernent of drainage section
commensurate with available financial outlays. With the assistance of World Bank
consultants, the Engineers of Irrigation Department Pnjib and Engineers from Central
Wa22 Commission, GOL new design criteria was established suitable for the South-West
Punjab. The drainage network in the project area was resectioned according to the new
design criteria. Sirnilarly the siructures on the drains were also designed and consicted
on )e: bases of new criteria. Thus. it was not a case of maintenance of existing dLains but
o0s improving the system through use of state of the art, techmology.
4.0  REGARDING tULIZAnON OF CREATED POTENTIAL
Please refer para 10 & para 26 on page 3 & 6 respectively on the report, our
conents are-
A,s per the Statis-icaJ Data collected Lrom annua stazistical reeorts prepared by.
Economic Advisor to GOP, Lotal area under canal irriga:ion has increased by 1,0I,000 Ha
in the period 1989-1996 (from 24.60,000 Ha to 15,61,000 Ha). In this regard, kindly refer
parz 6.21 on page 7 of evaluation report of June,98 titled "Composite Evaluation Report
on lining of channels and modernization of Canal Regulating S"-uctures". This rise in
Lrrigaed area matches with the increased potential created due to implementation of the
proje:,.
5.0 REGARDING QUANTUM OF SAVINGS OF SEEPAGE LOSSES
Please refer para 3 & para 6 of Appendix 'B', our cormnents are:-
a)-   Please note that evaluation s;udy was prepared by Evaluation Directorate and nor;,by
W2aC& Resources Directorate (W.R.).
b)    On review of the composite evaluation report on 'lining of channels and modernization of
gates' following error has been detected:-



81
'While .calculating savings in seepage losses tom lining of watercourses, totRi
wetted area was taken as effective area. It should have been only half of the wetted area
because the water supply to various farmers is by rotational system. In rotation sysern,
tail reach iE wetted for only n fraction of time and head realch is wetted ror whole or the
time'.
On the basis of this revision the average of water savins is reduced to balfie. to
0.0685 Cusecs per Km length of water course lined This waxer saring is equivalent to
50,500 cubic meter/Km/year due to lining of water coursea. Kindly correct para 3 and
para 6 of your Appendix 'B' accordingly. Table-I attached to the Appendix 'B' may also
be corrected accordingly please.
6.0 REGARDING CONJUNCTIVE USE OF SURFACE WATER
Please refer para 8 of Appendix 'B', our comments U:;-
We feel that our evaluation report. has not been able to convey correct message.
Under the heading 'Limitation of report' on page 3 of our composite evaluation repoh. on
'Lining of Channeis and Modernization of Canal Regulating Structures', it has been
stated that increased canai supply may reduce use of under ground water. This is be-ause
of the reason that farmers were earlier meeting their fall water requirement by
conjnctive use of canal and well water. If canal supply is inzeased, it should logically
reduce his requirement of well watei. Reduced requireren t: ffwell water will defnitely
reduce pumping cost (or save elecricity which wes consumed due to increased
pumping).
Para 8 of your repo., may please be reviewed in Ugh! o- above clarification.
7.0 GENERAL DATA ON PHYSICAL IPROGRESS
a)    Updated figures of physical progress by Project closing date have been finalized and
tabulated in Appendix 'A' of this report Please consider corrected corresponding figures
in your ICR as per this information.
c)    In S0 iine of para 14 of Appendix 'B ' 1.5mm may please be corected to I.SM
c)    Further, with reference to pa-a 5 on page 2 of your report, it'is to point out that PSTIC is
not concemed with Distributaries. Both Cznals and Distributaries are under the
adminitrative and functional control of Canal Administrazion iuelf.
8.0   IMPACT OF STUDIES
With refcrence to sudy component in draf ICR, our comments are given in
Appendix 'B' of this report.
V.-
IL*1



82
*9.0  RMEW OF KANDI CANAL SUB PROJECr
Kindly refer Appendix 'C' of draft ICR, we are of firm view that Kandi Canal
cxtenlsiuin (rioni -loshiarpur to Dulachaur) is absoluLcly ncccssiry for dcvelopment ot' ta:
portion of Kandi Area which is commended by this extended canal.
Our det,iled comments are at Annexure 'C' of this repor.
10.0 REGARDING DUCKEILL GATES ON KANDI CANAL
Your ldnd anention is invited to para 35 and also to item no.7 of 'Summary of
New Recommendations', of July, 1991 World sank Review Mission Report.
As desired, one number Duckbill weir-cum-sluice gate was provided at cross.
regulalr at RD 45 of Kandi Canal.
11.0  COMMEI NTS ON, LOW DAMS
1.    The GOP made efforts to encourage the benefLciaries to provide land to oustees at Lair
market price but due to very small land holdings of the beneficiaries, 'no body came
forward to parr with his land a: any price.
2. The land acquisition proceedings are starred zfter finalization of the design, For timely
compie:ion of the project emergent clause under section 17(i) of Land Acquisition Act
was madc applicablc. Otherwise the irrigation department would not have been able to
complete 6.5 Dams beffore project closing. However, it would be insured that this class
does no: lead to prolonging the finalizaion of awards and payment of final compensation
3.    The soL conservation &nd fores: department are being requested to take proper measures
for catchment protection.
4.    The benefits in terms of flood p.otection and land reclamation have no; been quantifiled.
The E.RR would be substantially higher when these benefits are quantified. The benefits
would also accrue to land ICS5 communities (Oustees) through increase in their income
because of increased job opportunities due to improved socio-econorric conditions.



83
APPENDiX-'A'
PHYSICAL ACEVEEMENT UPTO 31-07-98
SNo.        Projeot Componenkt       UNit   SAR Targea    Pvied    Commutative achievement Upto
Target Juiv3l, 1998'
1.    Linin of water course         KCm       4,000        5,000                 5,184.1
2.    Canal imnug                   Km         816         1,242                 1,072.32
3.    CAnal RcslgIation SL==LUrCS  No&.        400          315                    295
a)  Cross RcgUIawrs          Nos.        80           95                     88
b) Headregulalors            Nos.       lS0           173                    161
C) ES=PCS                    Nos,        90           26                     26
d) Auwn GacRecorde=s         Nos.       -30           21                     20
4.    Comruniuaion                   %         100          100      20 Fax MachLines and Computers
5.    Kiadi Cansl
a) Main Canai/Lr.n           Kn.       15.631       15.631               Completed
b) Dis:ribuLzneSMinor        Kmn       47.369       49.169               Completed
C)  Watr CDWseS              Km.         525        60.-795              Completed
6.    Kandi Low Darms
a) Dazns                     Nos.         9            9                     6.6
b) Diszibutimn  vsem         Nos.         9            9                     6.0
7.    Kandl TubecwelJs
a) Driwl' Nos.                           245         320                    320
b) Development               Nos.        245          320                   314.
C) . ?lmp HOUSeS/Tank        NOS.        245          320                   294
d) Disxibtion Syst=m          NoS.       245          320                   284
EncrCis2ton                  NOS.        245          320                   233
8.    Surlace Drinage
a) Resection=g               Km.        3,007        1,957                  2,028
b) Bridges                   Nos.        595          212                   202
c) Structures                Nos.    .2,670           562                    548
9.    Sub Su6ice Dminagc           Nos.        41           11                      4
10.   Stdies                        Nos.        9            9                      3
11.   pMO
a) Building                  Nos.         6            6                    98%
b) Faculty                   Not.         a            8                    100%
C) Traning PrOf am           Nos.        40           40                     36
12.   Mini Hydel Utits              Nos.        4            4       Civil  works  compicLtd  ELcc.
Macb    Equipmemt   promure
Inraalaionaad  asti4g yc'to be
compLed
13.   Administrouve Building         %         100%         100%                Completed



84
APPENDIX-B
COMMENTS ON DRAFT IMPLEMIENTATION COMPLETION RIEPCORT
Table 7: Studies included in ilIe Project. (ICR i'nge 14)
1. CONJUNCTIVE USE STUDY: No Comments.
2. DRIP IRRGATION STUTDY:
Drip Irrigation studies was conducted on citrus s per scopc. It is agreed that drip is a costlier
affair and ic out of teach of small farmer. To encourage the fermers for optimal use of water, Govt is
providing subsidy for installing drip schemes. Drip irrigation pe.rmit about 140%M additional area witd
the sam.e availability of water. Thne tudy reports were sent to Agriculture Department, Punjab and
Chief Engineer Canals for lmplamentation.
3. IMPROVED IRRIGATION PRACTISES STUDY:
Study has been conducted as per defined scope. Increase in paddv area and yield decline in cotton
crop may be due to adverse weather conditions and acute water loLging problem in the south western
districts of the State and its study was not with in the scope of studies assigned to PAU, Ludhiana.
4. SKIMMING STUD1ES
Under this study, water samples collected from  431 no. Piezomerric tubes inslalled werc nnalysed for
its quality. On thie basis of analysis of these samplcs, no site was found suitable for-skimming of fresh
water nverlying saline water.
S. GROLNID WATER QUALITY DISTRIBUTION STUDY.
Unde, Lhe scheme 180 Piezcmetric sets & 420 single Piezorner-ic tubes were planned to be installed
during Phase-I. 1 66 Piezometric sets & 265 singie Piezometric tuDes have been installed. The work
of installing the balance Piezometric tubes to complete die grid of 25 sq. km. will continiue.
6. ARTIFICIAL RECHARGE STUIDY.
Micro study has revealed that th:rc is great potential of artificial recharge to ground   water In.
declining water table areas of tclh state. Thie study was conducted in 2Sm stretch in the drain as the
Iithology of the drain was almost similar throughout thic drain. The results of this 25m stretchl study
would iave bcen similar even lf this study would lhave been conducted in 4000 m stretch. Thie study
is economically viable. Macro l)eve study will be carried  out by Conslructing cleck bunda In
whole drain and regulating water after monsoon. In addition, the regulating structures at strategic
points can also be tried for betacr regulation. The detailed report on the feasibility study on Artificial
Rceharge conducted on Roht.i drain has been prepared and is being icnt to World Bank scparately.
7. WATER LOGGED DEPRESSION STUDY:   No commenis
8. PURPOSE BUILT NET WORK STUDIES
A purpose built network hu been partially completed by lns?.aling 574 ?baubes against the project provision of
1050 P/tubu. AWLR on 25 % of these P/tubes were to be fitted. However, initially on trirl basis 20 AWLJt
have buen installed. Work of compicting the grid for installing the balance P/tubes will continue.
APPENDIX A (MISSION AID MEMOIR) OF ICR Pars    id 42 on page 8 & 9
The comments to the observation stands coveretr -i the above paras.



85
APPENDIX- C
COMMENT ON "REVIEW OF KANDI CANAL SUB PROJECT"
Please refer appendix-c of Draft Implementation completion report
This is to Faiterate that Kandi Canal Phase-lf is the only technically feas.i-
ble and financially viable -scheme for the development of that portion of Kandi Area
which is to be fed by the second phase of the canal. The opinion of the Word Bank
about un-suitablity of Kandi Canal Phase-II is based on their Interpretation of the
study titled athe impact of development activities on water table during last two deo-
ades in KandJ Area', This report has been prepared by ShrI S.K. Misra ard Shri S.K
Tandon of Punjab Agriculture Department in July '98 (study 1998). We wish to clarify
that ;-
1.       Kandi Area in punjab is spread over a length of about 200 kms ranging
trom Chandigarh to Pathankot. The small pocket of Kandi Arsa falling in Dasuya
Block has seen lot of activity in last two decades. Completion of Beas Dam atTalwara
gave birth to following channels which have been very olose to Dasuya Block:
(a) Mukerian Hydel Channel (About 11 000 vr capacity).
(b) Feeder I & II.
(c) Hazipur and Chingerwan Minors.
(d) Kandi Canal Phase-1.
In additionrto proximity of these channels, river beas is also flowing Very
close to Dasuya Block Index Plan of the area is enclosed ior reterence please.
2.       The comments on 'Study 1998' regarding water-logging conditions are
relating to some small pockets of this Dasuya Block only. Please refer para Xii of the
'Study 1998', wherein this fact has been recorded. It is this very area which has
witnessed 15 to 20 m rise in water table as per the 'Study I9g8'. This high rise can be
attributed to the fact that this portion of Kandi Area is locked between different chan-
nels and is very close to high capacity MukerlaniHydol Channel (about i 1,000 Cs
discharge). Besides, Dasuya Mukerian Road level has been raised sometime back.
Th3s has caused blockade to natural flow.creating pockets of water ponds, These
ponds are further adding to ground water charging in the area.
1



86
The 'Study 1998' is not relevant to that portion of Kandi Area which is to
be commanded by the Kandi Canal Phase-l1. This area lies between Hoshiarpur to
Balachaur and is about 60 kms away from 'Dasuya Block'. No well data given in the
'Study 1 998' falls in the command of Kandi Canal extension.
3.       The 'Study' 1998' has based Its report on 2 sets of observations only.
One of 198 (1991) and other of I 997. Study report cannot be taken reliable particu-
larly when last 5 years (92497) had received above average rain fall, the fact Which
has been recorded In the 'Study 1998' itself. (Refer sub para I of Para Xl on page 6 of
Study 1998).
Further, perusal of Annexure-6 of study also reveals that if Dasuya Block
is deleted (being the one affected by various channels including Mukerian hydel
Channel) then the average rise in water table in Kandi Area and non-Kandi Arsa
(Figures 19BB-97) and 1991-97 taken together is more or less the same. This works
out to .345m and .391 m respectively. This marginal difference can also be due to
difference in density of tubewell population in Kandi Area and non-Kandi Area. t is
thus confirmed that rise in water table in the area shown in the study is exclusiveily
due to above average rain-fall in 92-97 and not due to ground.water charging by
Kandi CanRal Stage-I.
4.       There is no den-ying the fact that there would be slight contribution to
ground water charging in the area by Kandi Canal but water charging is one of the
advantage of Kandi Canal rather than dis-advantage. Some regular charging. Is defi-
nitely required in normal rain years in Kandi Area for supportng existing/prospective
tubewells in the arma. In any case the Kandl Canal is a lined canal with head dlis-
charge of 500 Cs only. We have already_evaluated in respect of carntas/distrfbutaries
in Punjab, that seepage losses for lined channels are only 0.031 cs per km length of
channel. Even if we take seepage rate in Kandi Canal to be double the average of
Punjab figures, Then the total seepage from intire length of Kandi Canal phase-I
works out to be only 4.83 Cs. Such seepage in a length of about 59 km (length of
Kandi Canal Phase-I) can hardly. make any impact on ground water levels in. the
area.
2



87
5.       The part of Kandl Area which is to be commanded by Kandi Canal
Phase-li has still no such source of charging. Ground water charging In rainy reason
Is very limited because of steep slopes In the area and this limited charging Is not
likely  to  be   sufficient  to  sustain  tubewell  Irrigationi  only
in the area. For development of this area, construction of Kandi Canal extension is
the most (perhaps lhe only) appropriate and economically viable irrigation scheme
particularly when investments on head reach of canal have already been made.
6.       As regards capital cost of Kandi Canal vis-a-vis deep lubewell, It is to
state that such comparison is not desirble since Kandi Canal is a multi purpose
project whereas deep tubewelts give only irrigation supplies. Kandi Canal serves
following purposes over and above supply of irrigation waters:
a)  Crops in Kandi Area arE liable to be damaged by high speed theetL.
flow due to steep slopes In the area. Kandi Canal checks such
damages in its command area.
b). Canal supply, being gravity flow, is independent of availability of
electric supply. Disruption/shortage of power supply would not
disrupt canal water supply whereas tubewell supply may get
disrupted.
c)  It provides some charging to ground water.to support development
of some tubewelIs in the area.
d)  Kandi Canal bank provides all weather means of. communication in
Kandi Area which is criss-crossed by numerous flasihy rivulots.
*)  it provides cattle ghats and bathing glints In Ilia walor th1irsty aroa
,osi. athlgti contours of Kandl Area, aloi'i wlichi K(niicIl Cruzil
has to pass, wator Is a very scarce lto:ii.
3



88
7.       Still, it we compare the captl costs and running costs, we would find
that Kandi Canal is cheaper than tubewells. Calculaions given on page 2 of
appendix-c of draft implementation completion report need to be revised In view of
following facts:
a) Kandi Canal phase-I has to serve can an amia of about 20,000 ha &
not 14,000 ha.
b)  Dimentions of Kandi Canal Phase-I include provision for water
required for Kandi Canal Phase-li also. As such some cost of Kandi
Canal phase-I should be apportioned to Kandi Canal Phase-Il for-
working out crrect value of capital cost per Hectare.
c)  Tubewells have a limited life compared to cnls.Thir,factor should.
be taken into account white comparing captal cost per ha ar6a..
8)      In view of above, we feel that Kandi Canal Phase-lI is definitely the only
self supporting and economically viable scheme for Kandi Area lying between
Hoshiarpur and Balachaur.
In view;of above, we request you to please reconsider your comments on
Kandi Canal Phase-il.
4



