Page  1
                                              August 26, 1992
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi 110 001
India
The Chief Secretary, Government of Punjab
Civil Secretariat
Chandigarh, Punjab
India
Dear Sirs:
               Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project
               Credit No. 2076-IN/Loan No. 3144-IN
     Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated February 9,
1992 (hereinafter the "Development Credit Agreement") between India
(hereinafter the "Borrower") and the International Development
Association (hereinafter the "Association"), to the Loan Agreement of
even date therewith (hereinafter the "Loan Agreement") between the
Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(hereinafter the "Bank") and the Project Agreement of even date therewith
(hereinafter the "Project Agreement") among the Association, the Bank and
the State of Punjab, as amended.
     In response to your request, we are pleased to inform you that the
Association and the Bank agree to amend Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement, incorporated in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Loan Agreement, pursuant to Section 3.02 and Section 3.01 thereof
respectively, for the purpose of expanding the scope of procurement by
force account.
     Accordingly the Association and the Bank hereby propose to amend
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement as follows:
1.   Part C(3) of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement is
amended in its entirety to read as follows:
     "(3) Civil works may be carried out through force account provided
     that such works shall not in the aggregate exceed 20% of the total
     cost of all civil works under the project."
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing
and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment may
be executed in three counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
This amendment will be effective as of the date of this letter upon
receipt by the Association and the Bank of one fully executed original of
this amendment.
                      Very truly yours,
            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                       AND DEVELOPMENT
             By:
                        Heinz Vergin
                          Director
                Country Department II, India
                         Asia Region
Page  2
CONFIRMED:
INDIA
By:  /s/ A.K. KHURANA
     Authorised Representative
     under the Credit Agreement
     and the Loan Agreement
Date:
STATE OF PUNJAB
By:  /s/ G.P.S. SAHI
     Authorised Representative
Date:24/09/92
