CREDIT NUMBER 2076 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELCPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       ±J                     , 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2076 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       T-e a                  , 1990, between
INDIA, acting by its President, (th7Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to fifteen
million dollars ($15,000,000) (the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
(D) the Project will be carried out by the State of Punjab
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the State of Punjab the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the
Bank and the State of Punjab;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Asso-
ciation, the Bank and the State of Punjab (Punjab) of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
(c) "low dam" for purposes of Part G of the Project means a
low dam and associated irrigation distribution systems constructed
at one of the following thirteen sites: Perch, Soonk, Siswan,
Mirzapur and Haripur in Ropar District, and at Thana, Ramtatwali,
Malot, Damsal, Arniala, Chohal, Saleran and Lalwan in Hoshiarpur
District; and
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred seventeen million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 117,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2000 and ending September 1, 2024. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September
1, 2009 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this


﻿-5-
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall
cause Punjab to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of Punjab therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Punjab to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit and
the proceeds of the Loan available to Punjab in ac(ordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to
the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by Punjab pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1992,
furnish to the Association, for comments, the recommendations of
the study of the regional options for a long-term solution to the
drainage requirements of the States of Punjab, Haryana and
Rajasthan.
(b) The Borrower shall, thereafter, inform the Association
of the actions it intends to take in pursuance of the
recommendations of the study.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:


﻿-6-
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-7-
(a) Punjab shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Punjab will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
iurnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Punjab, and is legally
binding upon Punjab in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 4.01 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:                     Telex:
ECOFAIRS                         953-313546
New Delhi, India
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
yAA4'   Regional Vice President
J                      Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of         Amount of
the Credit         the Loan
Allocated         Allocated
(Expressed        (Expressed         % of
in SDR          in Dollar      Expenditures
Cateory           EEuivalent)                      to be Financed
(1) Works:                                          75%
(a) Parts A     90,000,000       5,000,000
through
H and K
of the
Project
(b) Part L       8,000,000       5,000,000
of the
Project
(2) Equipment                                       100% of foreign
and vehicles:                                  expenditures,
100% of local
(a) Parts A      5,000,000       4,500,000     expenditures
through K                                  (ex-factory
of the                                    costs) and 65%
Project                                   of local ex-
penditures for
(b)  Part L        400,000         500,000     other items
of the                                    procured
Project                                   locally


﻿- 11 -
Amount of         Amount of
the Credit         the Loan
Allocated         Allocated
(Expressed        (Expressed         % of
in SDR          in Dollar      Expenditures
Cateuory,          Equivalent)       Eq&ivalent).   to be Financed
(3) Consultants'      2,300,000                     100%
services
for Part J
of the
Project
and train-
ing for
Part K
of the
Project
(4) Unallocated      12,000,000
TOTAL     1172700L900       11, Q00
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 7.8 million, may be made in respect of Category 1 (a) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after July 31, 1989; and (b) Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b) for
payments made for expenditures for Part L of the Project until the
Borrower has furnished to the Association and the Bank an updated
investment plan, including applicable approvals by the concerned
agencies of the Borrower, setting forth the activities to be
financed under the relevant Part of the Project including (i)


﻿- 12 -
detailed cost and benefit estimates, satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank, justifying the economic and technical
viability of the activity to be financed; and (ii) financing
plans, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, for such
activity.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the investment
program in irrigation of the State of Punjab which has the
following objectives: (i) improving the productivity of the
existing irrigation system; (ii) raising living standards in the
poorest and most undeveloped areas of the State of Punjab through
development of irrigation facilities; (iii) initiating drainage
works, trials, and studies to address the short- and long-term
environmental and production impact of the rising water table in
the State of Punjab in the context of other concerned states; and
(iv) further upgrading the efficiency and skills of the Irrigation
Department of the State of Punjab.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Lining, including improvement of alignment, of about 4,000 km
of water courses in the following areas: (i) areas where works
were initiated during the Punjab Irrigation Project (Credit
899-IN); (ii) water logged areas; (iii) saline groundwater areas;
and (iv) sandy soil areas.
Part B:
Lining of about 350 km of branch canals and about 470 km of
distributaries and minors predominantly in water logged or saline
ground water areas.
Part C:
Modernization of about 80 cross regulators, about 150 head
regulators, about 80 gauge sites and construction of about 90 new
escapes.
Part D:
Installation of an integrated communication system to provide
communication between State and field offices for voice,
teleprinter and data, and subsidiary VHF networks connecting all
canal control points and linking with the main communication
system.


﻿-14
Part E:
1.   Improvements to surface drainage systems in about 200,000 ha
of water logged areas in the Districts of Faridkot, Ferozepur,
Bhatinda and Sangrur, including: (i) construction of new link
drains (about 800 km); (ii) resectioning existing drains to
conform to agreed capacity criteria (about 1700 km); (iii) con-
struction of about 3,000 associated structures, including small
water course crossings, rail and road bridges; and (iv) acquisi-
tion of about 5 draglines and related equipment for construction
and maintenance.
2.   Carrying out of a pilot program of installation of about
5,000 ha of subsurface drainage in the Districts of Faridkot,
Ferozepur, Bhatinda and Sangrur, including: (i) acquisition of a
drain laying machine; (ii) laying of laterals and collector
drains; and (iii) construction of sumps and acquisition and
installation of pumps to lift the drained effluent to disposal
points.
3.   Carrying out of additional works of installation of
subsurface drainage subject to satisfactory completion of the
pilot program under Part E.2 of the Project.
Part F:
Construction of irrigation systems on about 20,000 ha in the
Kandi Canal command area.
Part G:
Construction of nine low dams in the Kandi Zone for
protection against flood damage and for water resource develop-
ment, including resettlement and rehabilitation of about 150
families.
Part H:
Construction of about 250 public tubewells in areas in the
Eastern part of Kandi Zone where depth to water level or drilling
conditions have discouraged private sector development, and where
a positive groundwater balance exists or would be established
after surface water irrigation development has been carried out.


﻿- 15 -
Carrying out of studies, research and monitoring activities
related to improved water resources utilization in Punjab,
including acquisition of related equipment.
Improvement of the operational capability of the Bhakra-Beas
Management Board, including acquisition of related equipment as
follows:
1.   Development and implementation of an advanced decision
support system for managing water deliveries.
2.   Development of methodologies for predicting stream flows into
the system.
3.   Development of a decision support system for annual, seasonal
and monthly water allocations.
4.   Investigation cf prospects for adding intermediate water
storages in the system, and for adding pumped storage hydro
electric plants.
Part K:
1.   Construction of office buildings for the Punjab Irrigation
Department, acquisition of related equipment, and training of
staff.
2.   Establishment of the Punjab Irrigation Management and
Training Institute, including acquisition of equipment and
vehicles.
Part L:
Carrying out of one or more of the following additional
irrigation activities:
1.   Additional works under Parts A, B, C, E.1 and H of the
Project, and construction of additional low dams under Part G of
the Project as defined in Section 1.02 (c) of this Agreement.
2.   Canal modernization, including resizing of the distribution
system, in the Badshahi and Upper Bari Doab commands.


﻿- 16 -
3.   Construction of a series of drops in the Upper Bari Doab main
canal for generation of hydro-electric power.
4.   Construction of a link canal from areas served by the Ravi
river to the Beas river to allow use of surplus irrigation water.
5.   Construction of a lined canal combining the existing Bikaner
and Eastern canals, including installation of micro-hydel units
for hydro-electric power generation.
6.   Development of lift irrigation in areas adjacent to the
Sutly-Yamuna Link Canal.
7.   Additional works under Part F of the Project, and
construction of additional low dams under Part G of the Project
not referred to in Section 1.02 (c) of this Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1997.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
or Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 18 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
shall have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the
Loan Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions applicable
thereto; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of $16,000,000, twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 19 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited
to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


