Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 11488
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1469-COM)
DECEMBER 24, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit: Comorian Franc (CFAF)
Year            US$               CFAF
1981            1.0               287
1982            1.0               336
1983            1.0               417
1984            1.0               480
1985            1.0               378
1986            1.0               323
1987            1.0               267
1988            1.0               303
1989            1.0               289
1990            1.0               256
1991            1.0               298
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BAR                    Extension Zone (Base d'Animation Rurale)
BDPA                   Bureau for the Development of Agricultural Production (Bureau pour le
Developpement de la Production Agricole)
CADER                  Center for Support to Rural Development (Centre d'Appui au
Developpement Rural)
CCPS                   Coconut and Copra Production Service
CEFADER                Federal Center for Support to Rural Development (Centre Federal
d'Appui au Developpement Rural)
FAO/CP                 Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
FAU                    Finance and Administrative Unit
EDF                    European Development Fund
GOC                    Government of Comoros
IDA                    International Development Association
IFAD                   International Fund for Agricultural Development
INRA                   French Institute for Agricultural Research
IRHO                   French Institute for Oils and Fats
MPU                    Monitoring and Planning Unit
PPF                    Project Preparation Facility
SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
TA                     Technical Assistant
UNCDF                  United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
WFP                    World Food Program
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offlco of Director-General
Operation EvaluaUon
December 24, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Comoros
Rural Services Project (Credit 1469-COM)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Comoros - Rural
Services Project (Credit 1469-COM)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office; no contribution was
received from the Comoros.
The project failed to strengthen agricultural services. The limited extension activities failed
to spur sector development. The economic rate of return is re-estimated at about zero.
Project shortcomings include lack of a clear agricultural strategy, poor donor coordination,
ineffective planning, a shortage of qualified staff, frequent changes in management, and inadequate
funding. Sustainability is doubtful.
The PCR is complete and informative although it may understate the deficiencies of IDA
supervision. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1469-COM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  . ...................................................                                           i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .............................i.
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ..............    1
Project Identity  .........................................                                1
Background  ...........................................                                    1
Project Objectives and Description  .............................    2
Project Design and Organization  ..............................    3
Project Implementation  ....................................                               3
Project Results and Impact .................................                              10
Project Sustainability .....................................                              12
IDA Performance .......................................                                   12
Borrower Performance  ...................................                                 13
Consultants' Performance ..................................                               13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                               ......    15
PART Im: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                     .............. ................                    17
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  .....................    17
Table 2.  Project Timetable ................................                              18
Table 3.  Disbursements .....           .      .............................              19
Table 4.  Project Cost and Financing  ..........................                         21
Table 5.  Project Implementation Indicators ......................    22
Table 6.  Project Results ..................................                             25
Table 7.  Compliance with Major Covenants  .....................    27
Table 8.  Use of Bank Resources  ............................    28
ANNEX  1: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..................................                                         31
Table 1: Livestock Production (Fl Cows)  .......................    31
Table 2: Livestock Production (F2/F3 Cows) .....................    32
Table 3: Incremental Value of Livestock Production .................    33
Table 4: Agricultural Production .............................    34
Table 5: Project Incremental Maize Production ....................    35
Table 6: Project Incremental Legumes Production  ..................    36
Table 7: Project Incremental Sweet Potatoes Production  ..............    37
Table 8: Project Incremental Vegetable Production ..................    38
Table 9: CEFADER/CADER Personnel as of December 31, 1990   ...                   ....   39
Table 10: Training Component .................                                           40
ANNEX 2: COMMENTS FROM  IFAD   .................................  41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



l
I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1469-COM
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rural Services Project for which Credit
1469-COM in the amount of SDR 4.8 million (equivalent to US$5.0 million) and Loan No. 142-CS
in the amount of SDR 3.150 million (equivalent to US$3.3 million) were approved by IDA and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) on May 1, 1984, and May 16, 1984,
respectively. The original closing date of June 30, 1990 was extended twice, first to June 30, 1991
and then to December 31, 1991. The last disbursement on the IDA credit took place on June 19,
1992, when the undisbursed balance of SDR 927,000 (equivalent to US$965.000) was cancelled. The
last disbursement on the IFAD loan took place on December 10, 1991, but the undisbursed balance
in the amount of SDR 1,369,742 has not yet been cancelled because part of the expenses on the
Special Account still need to be justified by the Borrower.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of this report were prepared by the
Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) and finalized by the
Agriculture and Environment Division, South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Regional
Office. On April 14, 1990, the Government of the Comoros was sent a copy of the PCR with a
request to prepare Part II; no comments were received. A copy of the PCR was also sent to IFAD.
Comments were received and incorporated into the report.
Preparation of the PCR was started during a visit to the Comoros by a team from FAO/CP
in November 1991 and is based inter alia on information gathered in the Comoros, discussions with
project staff and government officials, and with both IDA and IFAD staff associated with the project,
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between IDA, IFAD and the Borrower, and internal IDA and IFAD memoranda.



f



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1469-COM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.         Agriculture dominates the country's economy, providing employment to 80% of the
population; contributing 40% to GDP, as well as virtually all export earnings. Agricultural
production is almost entirely concentrated in the smallholder sector. The country is densely populated
and, in order to meet basic family food requirements, Government's primary objective for the
agricultural sector has been to increase food self-sufficiency and reduce imports through productivity
improvements. The Federal Center for the Support to Rural Development (CEFADER) had been set
up as the agency to implement the above objectives, but Government envisaged for it a large number
of projects and a rapid expansion of staff, thus creating serious complications as to its absorptive
capacity and recurrent cost budget. At the time of project preparation, in 1982-83, the major donors
who cooperated at field level were well aware, as was CEFADER management, of the need to
consolidate activities into a clear program of action and to ensure the Government had the budgetary
capacity to continue activities once donor financed projects came to an end.  The need for
reorganization, for effective use, training and supervision of staff, for budgetary management and for
coherent planning within the Rural Services network (CEFADER, and the regional Centers for
Support to Rural Development, CADERs), became an important priority.
Project Obiectives
2.         The project aimed to improve planning, coordination and monitoring of activities in the
rural development sector, improve training and supervision of CEFADER/CADER staff at all levels,
strengthen CEFADER technical capacity and consolidate the geographical coverage of the
CEFADER/CADER network. Apart from the reorganization and strengthening of the overall
CEFADER/CADER system, the project included the expansion of livestock and forestry activities
through the support of services and extension in animal health and production, soil conservation, and
forest management. The project was expected to extend over five years and cost SDR 8.8 million.
Project Implementation
3.         Despite significant delays, implementation proceeded with reasonable results up to 1988,
but quickly deteriorated thereafter and was still in a declining trend when it was closed, on December
31, 1991. I/ Actual project costs were SDR 6.3 million (72% of estimated costs); primarily
because of less than planned spending on vehicles, equipment and consultants' services. The latter
1/         Even though the project's performance was deteriorating, the credit was
extended by eighteen months in order to provide support to an agricultural
strategy study (para. 5).



iv
seems to have been overestimated during appraisal. The project's extension activities achieved some
success in limited areas such as potato selection and multiplication, vegetable production, poultry
raising, genetic improvement of cattle and vaccination programs. Achievements in forestry fell far
short of objectives, except for the forage tree development program, for which an implementation
rate of 60% was attained. The implementation rate of the eucalyptus planting program, however,
was only 29%, and the management plan to exploit the Maoueni, Kartala and Grille forests never got
under way. These forests are currently illegally exploited by farmers and village people in the
surrounding areas. The revision of forestry legislation regarding the use of State forest lands and the
exploitation rights over private forest was not carried out. The proposed revision of the animal
sanitary legislation, in which livestock division activities were to be limited only to technical
recommendations, was accomplished.
Project Results and Impact
4.         Overall, project impact has been disappointing. Appraisal assumptions were over-
optimistic. In 1990, incremental production of maize and legumes reached only 25% and 15% of
appraisal targets respectively. The CEFADER input supply system has not functioned since 1989 as
it was not possible to maintain the revolving fund established to support seed and other input supplies,
because of poor cost recovery. As a result, although some selected maize seeds were available
through the European Development Fund-assisted maize project, crop production is now progressively
declining to pre-project levels. There was better success with the introduction of improved sweet
potato seeds; incremental sweet potato production is currently estimated at 840 tons per year, or about
60% of appraisal estimates. Under the genetic improvement program, through which imported bulls
were introduced, an offspring of some 500 Fl cows has been created so far, with much higher milk
and meat production (+300% and +25 % respectively). However, due to lack of funds, the demise
of this program is imminent, and it is estimated that within the next five years livestock production
will gradually decline to pre-project levels. Similarly, the animal health program has now been halted
because of lack of funds.
5.         Because of poor performance of the project, the Government decided, at the insistence
of the Bank and other donors, to commission an agricultural strategy study in order to introduce
relevant reform measures. Early in 1990 a consulting firm was contracted to carry out this study,
and by mid-1990 a new project manager was appointed at CEFADER to assist in implementing the
necessary reforms expected from the study. However, the final report of the study was submitted
to the Government, IDA and UNDP only in 1991, and did not yield satisfactory results; it is now
being revised with the help of Bank staff and individual consultants.
Proiect Finances and Sustainability
6.         The main reason for declining project performance after 1988 was that project
management was unable to resist Government pressure to substantially increase CEFADER/CADER
personnel with staff from the Coconut Rehabilitation and Rodent Control Project (Cr. 1035-COM),
following the cessation of external support, combined with an increasing inability of Government to
finance salaries and operating costs. At project closure, the service was starved of operating funds
while salary payments were six to seven months behind. Under these conditions, services to farmers
have essentially broken down.



v
Lessons Learned
7.         The project concept was based on the assumption that through reorganization, training
and management strengthening, the CEFADER/CADER system could become a unified and efficient
rural services network. It soon became apparent, however, that this objective would be difficult to
achieve for four reasons. Firstly, CEFADER lacked an agreed methodology for effective extension;
methods applied changed several times and extension agents had to carry out several tasks unrelated
to extension such as: supply of inputs on credit; distribution of food aid donated by the World Food
Program (WFP); and statistical data gathering/administration. Secondly, the project lacked effective
management; as CEFADER directors changed several times, the project was in fact managed by an
expatriate technical assistant for most of the period, who was unable to resist Government pressure
for personnel expansion. Thirdly, donors financed technical assistance and investment costs, leaving
it to Government to finance non-incremental operating costs and salaries. As Government finances
worsened, it was incapable of fulfilling its financing obligations in the project. This issue was not
recognized in the project's design, nor were supervision missions able to come up with a durable
solution. Fourthlv, in the course of project execution, other donors financed separate projects, adding
responsibility for their implementation on to CEFADER. Lack of donor coordination contributed to
CEFADER's declining efficiency as its limited absorption capacity was not up to all the tasks it was
assigned.
8.         The main lessons are:
(a)    To build a donor coordination mechanism  into a project, so as to avoid
uncoordinated donor activities during implementation;
(b)    To agree on personnel criteria (overall size, specialist requirements, extension
specialist/farmer ratios, etc.) as part of the project design, coupled with
effective supervision during implementation;
(c)    To review Bank policy on financing operating costs if it becomes apparent
that, because of Government budget constraints, the project faces a complete
breakdown in services; and
(d)    To avoid a multi-objective farmer support service when limited management
capacity is an important issue.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1469-COM)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.         Proiect Identity
Project Name:      Rural Services Project
Credit No.:        Cr. 1469-COM; IFAD Loan No. 142-CS
RVP Unit:          Africa Region
Department:        South-Central and Indian Ocean
Country:           Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
Sector:            Agriculture
Sub-sector:        Research and Extension
2.         Background
The Agricultural Sector
2.1        At the time of project preparation in 1982-83, agriculture dominated the country's
economy, a condition still prevailing in the Comoros today. It provided the livelihood of some 80%
of the population, while contributing about 40% of GDP and virtually all export earnings, which in
1983 included the sale of cloves (49%), followed by vanilla (40%) and Ylang-ylang (9%). In that
year copra represented only I% of export earnings compared with 21 % in 1973.
2.2        Agricultural production derived almost entirely from the smallholder sector. Average
size of farm holdings was about 0.33 ha in Anjouan, 0.84 ha in Grande Comore and 3.75 ha in
Moheli. In order to meet basic family food requirements the overriding emphasis of production was
on foodcrops.
Sector Development Objectives
2.3        Government's primary objectives for the development of the agricultural sector were
to increase food self-sufficiency and reduce imports through productivity improvements while
concurrently increasing export crop productivity and undertaking land conservation measures. While
the Federal Center for the Support to Rural Development (CEFADER) had been set up as the channel
for implementing the above objectives, the Government's development program envisaged a large
number of projects and a rapid expansion of staff, which created serious recurrent cost obligations.
2.4        The major donors who cooperated at field level were well aware, as was CEFADER
management, of the need to consolidate activities into a clear program of action and to ensure the
Government had the budgetary capacity to continue activities once donor financed projects came to



2
an end. The need for reorganization, for effective use, training and supervision of staff, for
budgetary management and for coherent planning at CEFADER became an important priority.
3.         Project Objectives and Description
Project Obiectives
3.1        The primary objective of the project was to strengthen the organization of CEFADER
and the Regional Centers for Support to Rural Development System (CADER), so that it would
function more effectively as the network for rural extension and services, but with staff and scope
of activities within the managerial and financial capacity of Government. The operational objectives
were:
(a)    Improved planning, coordination and monitoring of activities in the rural
development sector, including preparation of work programs, budgets and
budgetization of CEFADER/CADER activities.
(b)    Improved training and supervision of staff at all levels, and development of
multi-disciplinary extension skills for better transmission of technical messages.
(c)    Strengthening of CEFADER technical capacity to cover all areas of importance
in the rural economy, particularly animal health and production, forestry
management, soil conservation and farm forestry.
(d)    Consolidation of geographical coverage of the CEFADER/CADER network.
Proiect Description
3.2        The project included the following six components:
(a)    Strengthening of CEFADER's planning, data collection and monitoring
capacity;
(b)    Strengthening of CEFADER's administrative and financial management
capability;
(c)    Reorganization of the CEFADER/CADER staff work programs through the
implementation of a regular training and supervision system;
(d)    Support of operations of the five existing CADERs, of the CADERs under
construction through United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF)
financing, and the completion of two new CADERs in the east of the Grande
Comore;
(e)    Strengthening of CEFADER/CADERs activities in livestock through the
provision of services and extension in animal health and animal production;
and



3
(f)    Strengthening of CEFADER/CADERs activities in forestry, soil conservation
and forest management.
3.3        The project was scheduled to extend over five years, starting in January 1985, and was
expected to cost SDR 9.3 million of which IDA was to provide SDR 5.04 million, IFAD SDR 3.33
million, and the Government of the Comoros SDR 0.93 million. The IFAD contribution was to be
administered by IDA.
4.         Project Design and Organization
4.1        The project concept was based on the assumption that the CEFADER/CADER system
would, under the project, become a unified and efficient rural services network capable of carrying
out Government agricultural policy. However, in the early stages of the project, it soon became
apparent that this objective would be difficult to achieve. Project organization and performance were
constrained by institutional, financial, technical, manpower and political factors, which, although
identified at the preparation and appraisal stages, were not given enough consideration in the design
of the project. The lack of a clearly defined Government and donor-supported agricultural strategy
gave rise to numerous uncoordinated donor interventions. The role and responsibilities of the various
bilateral or multilateral agencies participating in the CEFADER/CADER system should have been
defined and mutually agreed upon prior to the start of the project. Project risks were properly
identified at appraisal (limited number of technical messages, lack of qualified local staff and lack of
Government counterpart funding) and were not unlike those experienced or expected for other
agricultural services projects in Africa. The proposed remedies were also in line with those used for
other agricultural services projects.
4.2        Overall responsibility for the management and implementation of the project was given
to the CEFADER director. Heads of the technical divisions were given the responsibility for
activities in their particular areas, reporting to the CEFADER director.  In reality, however,
CEFADER's work program constituted a multiplicity of often overlapping projects financed by
numerous donors and largely implemented by expatriate technical assistance. There was poor
coordination of project activities even at the CADER level. In order to address implementation and
managerial constraints, the original organizational CEFADER chart was revised in June 1987.
However, the CEFADER/CADER system remained unable to function as a coherent extension and
rural services system.
5.         Project Implementation
A.         General
5.1        The project was declared effective on January 22, 1985, but financing under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) arrangement permitted some project activities to start earlier, i.e.
recruitment of technical assistance staff for livestock, monitoring/programming, forestry and
extension, and aerial photography for land use mapping. Most of the project components became
operational quickly and implementation proceeded without any particular problems at the beginning.
The main area of concern at that time was political interference in the selection of Comorian project
personnel and poor Government financial management. A 7-month ban on recruitment particularly
delayed the forestry and data collection components. Delays in paying salaries lowered morale. Due
to its stringent budgetary situation, the Government had been unable to provide the required



4
counterpart funds. Project staff had used the IDA Special Account in 1987 and 1988 to pre-finance
the Government contribution to keep the project functioning. In order to alleviate this situation, the
credit agreement was amended on June 16, 1988. The Government assumed responsibility for local
salaries and IDA and IFAD for 95%  of all other operating costs.  Prior to the amendment,
Government was to finance each year an increasing share of operating costs. IFAD suspended
disbursements for certain categories of expenditures until Government had reimbursed the Special
Accounts; IDA closed the special account until repayment was received (for IDA, the special account
was reimbursed in 1989; the IFAD special account was still not fully accounted for in September
1992).
5.2         Notwithstanding a good start and more or less satisfactory progress of most of the
components during the first two years, the project faced several major constraints which impeded
implementation throughout the project period and were particularly damaging during the later stages
of the project. The most significant were:
(a)     Lack of a clear agricultural strategy and consequently lack of donor
coordination and effective planning of numerous projects.
(b)     Shortage of adequately trained and qualified staff at all levels.
(c)     Frequent and often politically motivated changes in the staffing of key posts.
(d)     Excessive number of low level staff without particular duties to perform.
(e)     Failure of the research and extension program to generate practical extension
messages.
(f)     Uncoordinated and poorly planned training programs and limited participation
of CEFADER technical staff in the training of CADER staff.
(g)     Limited capability of CADER extension activities in monitoring and evaluation
and in providing reliable data and information on agricultural production and
project performance in general.
(h)     Inadequate and unpredictable recurrent cost financing by the Government.
This problem became more serious as project implementation proceeded. The
poor economic situation of the country and the inability of Government to
cover recurrent costs resulted in an overall paralysis of project activities.
5.3         Project Costs and Financing. Actual project costs were about 72% of estimated costs
(SDR 6.3 million versus SDR 8.8 million respectively). The primary reasons were less spending on
vehicles and equipment (38% of appraisal estimate) and on consultant services (68% of appraisal
estimate). The latter cost item seems to have been overestimated during appraisal. Details are
included in Table 4, Part III.
5.4         Disbursements. Actual disbursements progressed satisfactorily until 1988. Due to the
problems mentioned in para. 5.2, disbursements slowed down markedly in the following years. The
amendment to the credit agreement did not alleviate this problem. The credit was extended by
eighteen months to December 31, 1991, in order to provide financing for an agricultural strategy
study (para. 6.7).



5
5.5         Procurement. This project was the second IDA-financed agricultural project in the
Comoros. The experience gained under the Coconut Rehabilitation and Rodent Control project,
which started in 1980, was very useful to project staff in dealing with overall procurement
procedures.
B.         Implementation of Individual Components
B.l        Proiect Data Collection. Monitoring and Planning Unit (MPU).
5.6         The MPU  was duly established and recruitment of headquarters personnel was
completed by late 1984; field staff (enumerators and supervisors) recruitment was not completed until
December 1985. Thus field work did not begin until the second part of 1986, after initial training.
At present, the number of MPU personnel at both CEFADER and CADER is acceptable.
Performance of field enumerators and of field staff in general has, however, been disappointing.
Absenteeism, post abandonment, lack of discipline and motivation, lack of interest and understanding
of the system, characterized the majority of staff. The main reasons for this poor performance were:
delays in salary payments, poor supervision and lack of monitoring by CEFADER personnel.
5.7        All equipment and transport means were procured as proposed, except for vehicles
replacement. The proposed technical assistance of 30 man/months was extended to 72 man/months,
the justification for which was the frequent changes in the nomination of a national unit director
(three nominations between 1984 and 1987), who were supposed to have taken over from the leading
Technical Assistant (TA). The short-term overseas training program was not implemented correctly
and started with a two year delay. The available funds were used for two scholarships only, one of
which was given to one of the candidates nominated for the position of MPU Director, who selected
a subject irrelevant to his future duties and, in fact, never assumed the post of Director.
5.8         Local training for junior staff, particularly the initial training for enumerators and data
processors, was timely and satisfactory. The in-service training of other MPU staff was inadequate,
despite the long period of TA service in the project.
5.9        Only part of the planned activities were implemented.  The MPU prepared and
computerized the annual consolidation of the work programs and budgets for the CEFADER/CADER
structure. Parallel with this activity, the MPU reviewed and updated twice a year the public
investment program for the agricultural sector, which was used in the preparation of both the annual
consolidated budget and the structural adjustment program.  MPU, however, was not able to
implement those activities that had a direct bearing on monitoring and evaluation work. There was
a lack of systematic collection of farm data, of regular supervision and contacts with field staff. As
it was, the information collected was not always the most relevant and was not sufficiently analyzed
for the purpose of drawing conclusions. Thus, an evaluation of direct project impact was never
possible.
B.2        Assistance in Financial Management and Administration of CEFADER.
5.10       The project accounts were computerized after some initial delays. Additional support
for this component was obtained from the European Development Fund. In line with the need for
cost reductions CEFADER introduced an improved accounting and financial management plan but
results were below expectations, because of the lack of qualified local staff. Major delays were
experienced in establishing yearly financial statements and having the accounts audited.



6
B.3         Training and Supervision System
5.11        During the first three years of the project, training activities were in line with the
original program. Implementation started on schedule and the program included initial training for
new and redeployed (following selection) extension staff, and fortnightly and monthly
training/programming sessions at CADER level. In addition, regular bi-monthly seminars were
carried out for CADER personnel as well as a number of seminars on specific subjects. Technical
and teaching materials were also produced in collaboration with CEFADER's technical divisions.
The training program had little impact on the quality and organizational aspects of CADER staff and
extension services. The main reasons for the limited success of this component seem to have been:
(i) lack of continuous technical support to extension personnel from CEFADER's technical divisions
and subject matter specialists, and poor supervision of operational activities (limited to a few
CADERs in Grande Comore); (ii) inadequate monitoring of training activities and personnel; and (iii)
low quality of CADER extension staff combined with frequent changes, low morale and lack of
enthusiasm.
B.4         Assistance to Establishment and Operation of CADERs
B.4. 1      Establishment of new CADERs.
5.12        All of the proposed civil works for the two new CADERs in East Grande Comore were
completed on schedule, and the procurement of vehicles and equipment implemented without any
particular problems.  At the end of the second project year, the original financial support for
operation of five CADERs was expanded, at Government's request, to include five additional
CADERs, since support from the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique and African
Development Bank was no longer available.  Accountants were recruited to serve in the new
CADERs and initial training was provided.
5.13        Extension. Appointment of the directors of the two new CADERs and recruitment of
the first additional extension staff were implemented with some delays due to political interference
in the selection process. Recruitment of the remaining staff was carried out as envisaged. It has to
be noted however that the number of extension personnel and CEFADER/CADER personnel in
general increased to uncontrollable proportions during the last three years of the project. The total
personnel force, including staff supported by the World Food Program (WFP), rose from 920 in 1985
to over 2,000 in 1990. The number of extension agents had increased by 53% from 140 (12 per
CADER) to 215 (18 per CADER) during the same period. There were also an additional 300
extension agents that had as main duties input distribution. This overabundance of personnel created
management and staff supervision problems in the CADERs. At the technical level, extension
activities suffered from a shortage of technical messages.
5.14        Different approaches were used to disseminate extension messages. During the first two
years most of the CADERs applied an extension system introduced earlier by CEFADER's Research
and Development Division. Under this approach the area of each CADER was divided into three
zones (Base d'Animation Rurale - BAR), each receiving a different intensity of extension coverage.
This approach required well-trained and experienced extension personnel, able to transfer multiple
extension messages and closely follow the progress of participating farmers.  Because of its
complexity and the limited impact on benefiting farmers and agricultural production, this system was
replaced by a simpler system of extension which focussed on the transfer of simple messages.
(Improved seed, cultural practices, etc.). Contact farmers and field demonstrations at village level
were used in this approach. A certain number of CADERs, mainly in Grande Comore, promoted



7
the establishment of groups of individual farmers cultivating cash and food crops, i.e. tomatoes, other
vegetables, potatoes, etc. This initiative produced good results though limited as far as the number
of benefiting farmers was concerned (about 1,700 farmers in 1991).
5.15        As a general rule, extension personnel were not only responsible for implementation of
the extension program but were also carrying out other activities and programs at the village level.
These activities included the production and sale of agricultural inputs, the provision of credit, food
crop marketing, collection of socio-economic data, food aid distribution and the implementation of
the food for work program, rodent control, population control activities, etc. It was clearly beyond
the capacity of CEFADER/CADER to implement and administer all of these programs adequately;
extension agents were faced with too many tasks. Furthermore, the farm population was starting to
expect food aid through WFP in exchange for participation.
5.16        Inputs supply and distribution. The project envisaged the provision of a revolving fund
of US$ 0.23 million for the supply and sale of inputs to farmers. Inputs would be sold for cash at
the CADER sites. Implementation of this activity faced a number of shortcomings. At CEFADER
level, supplies were inadequate with long delays in the delivery of orders to CADERs. Personnel
involved in the supply of inputs had very little experience on the subject. Also, there was lack of
coordination in the collection of orders and delays in their submission for processing. Stock records
were not properly kept nor regularly updated, and storage was mismanaged. Distribution to the
farmers was carried out by extension agents and mostly on credit. As a result, costs were very high
and credit recovery extremely low, making replenishment of the revolving fund impossible. The
Government decided to privatize these activities, but no interest has been shown by the private sector
in taking over these activities.
B.5         Strengthening CEFADER's Livestock Division
5.17        Strengthening of livestock services.  A considerable effort was made to improve
livestock personnel through training. This activity was implemented satisfactorily. Overseas training
for staff covering different aspects of livestock production and animal health started after a small
delay but was completed earlier than scheduled.  The total number of livestock personnel that
benefitted from overseas training amounted to 15 against 24 planned. Unfortunately, no provision
was made to train a veterinarian and the project continued to depend upon technical assistance.
Internal training, which included regular monthly meetings and training sessions at regional and
CADER levels, was implemented satisfactorily until mid-1988, when financing problems started to
become serious. Personnel requirements of the CEFADER livestock division as well as of the
CADERs were fulfilled. The main problems encountered in carrying out the various activities were
the lack of practical experience of veterinary assistants, the low integration of livestock agents into
CADER work, and poor coordination of inter-island activities.
5.18        Supply of vehicles and equipment including laboratory equipment was subject to delays
particularly in the initial stages of project implementation, and procurement was not completed until
1987.
5.19        Animal health.  Two activities were foreseen:  provision of veterinary services
(vaccinations, treatment of internal parasites, clinical work, etc.) and drafting of legislation covering
animal sanitation aspects.  No indicators of qualitative animal health targets had been set and
therefore comparisons were made only as percentages of livestock population (1984 estimates) and
the annual progress in number of animals per activity.  Factors that positively affected of
implementation, were the satisfactory work of CADERs veterinary agents in making health services



8
available in their areas and the willingness of farmers to pay for such services. On the negative side,
administrative, coordination and financial problems caused difficulties and delays in implementation
(non-delivery or delays in the supply of drugs and other sanitary materials, supply of unsuitable
drugs, lack of supervision and technical backing and monitoring, low mobility of veterinary agents
due to lack of fuel, and delays in payments).
5.20        In general, however, the participation of livestock farmers was never high, and was
declining during the last three years of the project. On average, only 12% of the cattle population
of Grande Comore were vaccinated each year against blackleg disease, with a high of 27% in
1987/88 and a low of 4% in 1989/90. Annual averages for the treatment of internal parasites and
the control of tick-borne diseases were 6% and 3% respectively, while only 1.4% of the cattle
population received clinical services (mainly castrations). Data covering poultry health aspects were
not available.
5.21        Legislation concerning animal sanitation rules for the control of imported animals and
animal products was implemented through the issue of three relevant official decrees.
5.22        Animal production. The four main activities were:  (i) improvement of livestock
feeding; (ii) improvement of watering infrastructure; (iii) shelters; and (iv) genetic improvement
of cattle.
5.23        Improvement of livestock feeding had noticeable success, especially in Anjouan. A
system  was developed under which Pennisetum  and Tripsacum  grasses were produced by the
CADERs and distributed to farmers. Also, leguminous species such as Sandragon and Glyricidia
were distributed every year in the form of cuttings.
5.24        The construction of water catchment basins in Grande Comore was not implemented nor
any other watering infrastructure or livestock shelters set up, despite the efforts made by livestock
extension agents to get farmers interested.
5.25        Five Friesian bulls, three male goats and three rams were imported, although not until
June 1987, two years later than planned. Administrative problems were the main cause of this delay.
All preparatory works for the accommodation of the imported animals at the CADERs were
implemented on time and prior to their arrival. Livestock farmers' interest in the cross-breeding
program varied, depending on the island, the location of the farm and the capacity of farmers to
produce the larger quantities of forage required for the feeding of a genetically improved animal.
Implementation of the genetic improvement program suffered from insufficient control on the quality
and quantity of feed given to the bulls, leading to health problems; inadequate veterinary support;
limited cooperation between livestock agents and other CADER extension personnel to improve feed
resources in the area through the establishment of a valid integrated livestock/agricultural production
system; lack of follow-up and monitoring of the cross-bred animals, and as a result, unavailability
of performance data; lack of suitable messages to convince livestock farmers about the benefits of
cross-breeding; and finally, shortage of funds.
5.26        Poultry production. The infrastructure for semi-industrial units was created as proposed.
However, both poultry feed processing plants, managed by CEFADER, which were planned to
produce 1,200 tons per year, produced less than 400 tons over the five years of the project.
Production of feed by these plants was based almost entirely on imported maize. Given the lack of
counterpart funding, particularly during the last three years of the project, satisfactory operation of
this activity was not possible. In fact, since 1990 production at both plants has been at a standstill.



9
5.27        During the first half of the project, 83%  of the villages had been provided with
improved breeding cocks. Difficulties were experienced in the distribution of poultry feed to the
traditional farmers and in implementing the vaccination program against Newcastle disease. One of
the main reasons for the unsuccessful implementation of the vaccination program was the
unwillingness of poultry farmers to pay CFAF 10 per head for the vaccine provided by the project.
Despite the high demand, distribution of cocks to small farmers was discontinued in 1988-89 mainly
for two reasons: (i) the operation was not viable economically, since the selling price for cocks
covered only 60% of actual costs, and (ii) feed requirements could not be met by the farmers.
5.28        With regard to semi-industrial poultry farming, implementation followed a similar
pattern, with a spectacular performance in production (more than 100,000), import (about 200,000)
and distribution of chicks during the first three years of the project, and a sharp drop or petering out
of activities afterwards. Lack of funds and management problems were again to blame in this case.
Nevertheless, the efforts made by CEFADER at the beginning of the project in disseminating the
semi-industrial poultry production message were ultimately successful; commercial farmers have
established their own groups and are at present covering their requirements through direct imports
of chicks and concentrated feed.
B.6         Strengthening Forestry. Farm Forestry and Land Conservation Activities
5.29        Aerial photography, photo-interpretation and establishment of the legend for land use
mapping, which were financed under PPF, were implemented with two years' delay, mainly the result
of CEFADER's management shortcomings.
5.30        Technical assistance included a forestry expert for four instead of five years, and one
United Nations volunteer for four years (which had not been foreseen). Internal and on-the-job
training by the TA was performed satisfactorily during his four-year stay on the Comoros. By
contrast, the implementation schedule and program for training abroad were vastly different from
what was planned. As indicated in Annex 1, Table 10, a total of 17 persons underwent external
training, against six proposed, but the Comorian Director of Forestry who was supposed to take over
from the TA, was not among those that received such training. The implementation schedule started
in 1986 as proposed, but was completed only in 1991. Training courses for each of the trainees were
longer than envisaged (3 years for each) and five of the above trainees had not yet returned to the
Comoros at the time of the PCR mission.
5.31        Upon their return to the Comoros, few of the overseas trained forestry personnel were
given an assignment within the CEFADER/CADER system, and of these some were assigned to posts
not compatible with their training subject. Of the 14 senior forestry technicians trained overseas,
only three had been assigned to CADERs in 1991. As in the other CEFADER/CADER services, the
number of forestry personnel was much higher than originally proposed. At CEFADER's Forestry
Division, the number of personnel in 1991 was 30 against 7 planned. Even so, there was a shortage
of qualified personnel, such as nursery and forestry agents.
5.32        Transport facilities were provided in accordance with the implementation schedule and
there were no major problems until 1988. From 1989 onwards, the transport situation became critical
because of a lack of operating funds.
5.33        Implementation of forestry activities was generally unsatisfactory, particularly from
1988-89 onwards: financial and management problems, together with the difficulty for
forestry/government authorities to enforce the law and to control the destruction of forest lands by



10
neighboring farmers, made implementation of the forestry program difficult. Important activities such
as tree planting in uncultivated lands and soil conservation measures in cultivated lands were only
partly implemented, mainly because of the failure of forestry personnel to convince farmers and rural
people of the importance of land and soil conservation measures on agricultural production and forest
exploitation. As indicated in Part III, Table 4, tree planting in uncultivated areas covered 216 ha,
representing only 29% of the project target. In cultivated areas, fruit tree planting and forest/forage
tree planting, represented 10% and 60% respectively of project targets. However, some 700 km of
road side plantings not foreseen at appraisal were also carried out. The low figures of tree planting
were due in part to the inability of forestry personnel to control damage done by farmers. Repeated
plantings of forest species in the same areas were a common operation. Some 50 ha of land had to
be replanted because of fire.
5.34        The proposed trials and studies program was only partly accomplished. A forestry
species adaptability plot was established only on Grande Comore and the results were inconclusive
since the experimental work stopped in 1989 due to a lack of funds.
5.35        Implementation of the activities concerning management of the three forests on Grande
Comore also remained incomplete. A wood inventory was carried out and a development plan
prepared only in respect of the Maoueni eucalyptus forest. Nothing was done as regards the other
two forests. The wood inventory of Maoueni forest showed that the remaining forest area at the time
of the inventory was only 300 ha instead of the 500 ha estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report.
Commercial exploitation of Maoueni forest had not yet begun because of lack of interest by the
private sector to install a sawmill as envisaged at appraisal. At present, all three forests are exploited
illegally by farmers or rural people living in the vicinity. Forest guards, despite their high number,
are incapable of controlling these activities.
5.36        The planned revision of legislation concerning the use of State forests and exploitation
rights in private forests was not carried out.
6.          Project Results and lmpact
6.1         Overall, the project was not successful in achieving its main objectives. Although a
remarkable effort was made in the early stages of implementation to improve the efficiency of the
CEFADER/CADER system by establishing planning and personnel training programs, project
management remained ineffective and incapable of coordinating the many activities of the various
projects under different financing agreements. Project results and impact were adversely affected
because of conditions, policies and decisions that eluded management control.
6.2         It was expected that the main impact would be derived from substantially increased crop
and livestock production as well as from forestry activities. This failed to materialize. Complete data
on incremental crop and livestock production under the project are not available. The PCR mission
made its own estimates of the project's physical progress in relation to appraisal targets, based on
available data and on their own assumptions concerning quantities of improved seeds and other inputs
distributed during the project period and services provided to the farmers. As indicated in detail in
Part III, Table 6, and in Annex 1, Tables 5 to 8, productivity targets concerning foodcrops, livestock
and forestry were not reached. However, considerable project success is recorded for poultry and
livestock production. Increases in poultry production, particularly from semi-industrial units in
Grande Comore and Anjouan, were considerable, and almost reached project goals. Estimates based
on the number of chicks imported or locally produced and distributed, indicate that in 1991, the



I1
incremental production of poultry meat was about 150 tons and of eggs about 3 million. The
respective appraisal targets for the same year were 158 tons of meat and 3.04 million eggs.
Moreover, all of this is now being done by the private sector. Incremental production of beef was
estimated at about 16 tons of meat and of cow's milk at about 204,000 liters, or 32% and 82%
respectively of appraisal targets for 1991.
6.3        Project objectives regarding crop production increases were not met due to the failure
of the extension system to reach a larger number of farmers and to disseminate available technical
messages. However, it has to be noted that the appraisal assumptions, particularly those concerning
the number of farmers adopting the full package of new techniques and those pertaining to increased
maize area, were optimistic. Although the extension service was effectively strengthened with
vehicles and training, the number of farmers that adopted the full package of new techniques
represented only 6% of the target population. The majority of farmers were in fact interested mainly
in receiving improved seed. Farmers' participation in the seed distribution program amounted to
70% and 29% of project goals for 1987 and 1991, respectively. The lower participation rate
recorded in 1991 was due to the poor performance of the revolving fund, as well as the lack of
improved seed during the last years of the project. The introduction in 1988 of an improved high
yielding sweet potato variety from South Africa resulted in an impressive increase in the number of
farmers seeking extension advice for this particular crop. Distribution increased from about 200
farmers in 1988 to about 3,500 in 1991.
6.4        With regard to crop yields, project results were close to estimates for maize and legumes
when the full technical message was adopted but were considerably lower when only improved seed
was used. On the other hand, sweet potato yields obtained were twice as high as estimated.
6.5        An important project activity, which was not envisaged, was the development of
vegetable crop production in Grande Comore and Anjouan. A commendable effort was made by the
project to distribute potato and vegetable seeds to farmers until 1989. Henceforward seed distribution
decreased significantly due to CEFADER's financial and management constraints and the number of
vegetable growers remained virtually static. In 1991, there were 1,700 farmers adopting improved
technical packages for the production of tomatoes, potatoes and onions. Incremental production of
these crops in 1991 was 240 tons, 300 tons and 65 tons, respectively.
6.6        Given its poor implementation rate, the results of the forestry component were
insignificant.
6.7        Because of poor performance of the project, the Government decided, at the insistance
of the Bank and other donors, to commission an agricultural strategy study in order to introduce
relevant reform measures. Early in 1990 a consulting firm was contracted to carry out this study,
and by mid-1990 a new project manager was appointed at CEFADER to assist in implementing the
necessary reforms expected from the study. However, the final report of the study was submitted
to the Government, IDA and UNDP only in 1991, and did not yield satisfactory results; it is now
being revised with the help of Bank staff and individual consultants.
Economic Rate of Return
6.8        The predicted Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was 27%. It was not possible to re-
estimate the ERR; data collected by CEFADER was incomplete or inadequate to carry out, ex post,
the economic evaluation of the project.  No indications were given on actual project costs by



12
component and data on project incremental production referred only to milk, meat, maize, sweet
potatoes, legumes and vegetables. However, as project activities completely stopped in 1990 it is
unlikely that the incremental crop and livestock production (with the exception of poultry and eggs)
will be maintained in the future. Projections made by the mission indicate that by the end of the
decade, the production of certain crops will fall again to pre-project levels (Annex 1, Tables I to 8).
In view of the above, and in consideration of the poor performance of the forestry component, it is
reasonable to assume that the project will generate a marginal ERR.
7.          Project Sustainability
7.1         Sustainability of project components is considered doubtful unless Government funding
improves substantially or further support from donors is forthcoming. Government contributions
towards project financing were inadequate and it became apparent during the latter stages of project
implementation that insufficient local funding was adversely affecting most, if not all, of the project's
components. In particular, shortfalls in salary payments and in the provision for vehicle operation
and inputs supply and distribution, increasingly affected field activities of the extension services,
forestry and training from 1988 to 1991. Staffing levels, salaries and allowances were much higher
than needed. In view of this and in the absence of further support from external sources, it appears
inevitable that there will be further, substantial, cutbacks in the levels of extension support provided
to small farmers. Under the on-going structural adjustment operation (Cr. 2207-COM), CEFADER
completed a census to determine actual staff and to help identify redundant positions. Work on staff
regulations is also underway together with an estimate of the financial implications of staff reductions
and possible incentives. It is expected that, by the end of 1992, the CEFADER/CADER system will
only maintain a total of about 500 staff, representing a reduction of more than 50% over the 1990
level, if present proposals are implemented. Total CEFADER/CADER personnel as of December
31, 1990, is given in Annex 1, Table 9.
8.         IDA Performance
8.1         Details of staff inputs by IDA during identification, preparation and appraisal missions
are provided in Part III, Table 8. As shown in the same table, a total of 14 IDA supervision missions
visited the Comoros during the project life to assess the progress of implementation.
8.2         Given the importance of the CEFADER/CADER system to the development of the
agricultural sector in the Comoros and the growing demand for its reorganization, IDA was justified
in supporting the strengthening of this institution. However, during preparation and appraisal IDA
should have ensured that there was a clearly defined agricultural development strategy and that a
mechanism be set up to coordinate the various activities of the numerous donors using the
CEFADER/CADER system for the implementation of their projects and that personnel size and
management would be closely controlled.
8.3        IDA's performance in the supervision of the project was good, and the inputs of
missions proved to be effective to CEFADER management by highlighting weaknesses in project
performance and suggesting remedies.



13
9.         Borrower Performance
9.1        The Borrower showed major weaknesses during project implementation. There were
frequent changes of project managers which deprived the project of continuity in leadership and
several key posts were left unfilled most of the time. The Government did not meet its funding
commitments to the project. However, periodic progress reports were submitted to IDA as agreed,
although sometimes late. The Government complied with most key covenants specified in the credit
agreement.
10.        Consultants' Performance
10.1       The consultants performed satisfactorily. Much of their accomplishments, however,
were undermined by a lack of qualified local staff and poor personnel policies (appointments and
reassignments) by the Government.






15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1469-COM)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower did not submit Part II.
I



I



17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDrT 1469-COM)
PART HI. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose                Calendar Year           Status               Comments
of Approval
Coconut Rehabilitation        Improving coconut and copra             1980         Closing date of June   The undibursed
and Rodent Control Project    production through new plantings,                   30, 1986 extended       amount of USS 1.0
replanting, rat eradication,                        twice: June 30, 1988   million was canceled
improved maintenance, marketing                     and December 31,       as of Decomber 30,
and copra drying and processing.                    1988.                  1988.
PCR: June 1992.



18
Table 2. Project Timetable
Activity                          Date Planned                       Revised Date                 Actual Date
Identification:
- Livestock sub-sector 2/         1981                                                            1981
- Rural Services                  March & September 1982                                          March & September 1982
Preparation                       1983                                                            1983
Appraisal 3/                      June 1983                                                       June 1983
Negotiations                      March 6, 1984                                                   March 6, 1984
Board Approval                    May 5, 1984                                                     May 5,1984
Credit Signature: IFAD            May 16, 1984                                                    May 16, 1984
Credit Signature: IDA             August 27, 1984                                                 August 27, 1984
Credit Effectiveness              December 27, 1984                                               January 22, 1985
Completion Date                   September 30, 1989                 December 31, 1989            December 31, 1989
Closing Date                      June 30, 1990                      June 30, 1991                December 31, 1991
Last Disbursement                 December 31, 1990                                               May 31, 1992
Source: World Bank Project Files.
2/ Identified by IFAD.
I/ Jointly appraised by IDA and IFAD.



19                                                       Table 3
page I of 2
Table 3. Disbursements
Table 3A. Estimated and Actual IDA Credit Disbursement
....... SAR Estimate .......   ......... Actual .
IDA              Yearly           Cumulative          Yearly      |   Cumulative        Actual as % of
Fiscal Year      Disbursement       Disbursement       Disbursement      Disbursement         Estimate
............. ....... (SDR'000)  ............
1985               910                910               670                670                74
1986              1,043             1,953               478               1,148               59
1987               852              2,805              1,403             2,551                91
1988               795              3,600               586              3,136                87
1989               667              4,267                168             3,304                77
1990               553              4,800               338              3,642                76
1991                -               4,800               133              3,774                79
1992                -               4,800                99              3,873                81
Cancellation                                                 -                927
Table 3B. Estimated and Actual IFAD Loan Disbursement 4/
l ...... . SAR Estimate ....... . ........ . Actual .
IFAD             Yearly           Cumulative          Yearly           Cumulative        Actual as % of
Fiscal Year      Disbursement      Disbursement       Disbursement       Disbursement         Estimate
.................... . (SDR'000)  ...... .............. .
1985              483               483                305                305                63
1986              606               1,089              439                744                68
1987              719               1,808              557               1,301                72
1988              492               2,300              148               1,449               63
1989              448               2,748              142               1,591               58
1990              402               3,150              143               1,734               55
1991               -                3,150               38               1,772                56
1992                                  -                  8               1,780                57
4/             The last disbursement on the IFAD  loan was on December 10, 1991. Pending
settlement of the balance of the Special Account, the loan cannot be closed.



Taole 3
page 2 of 2
Table 3C. Actual Disbursements by Category
(in SDR '000)
IDA Credit                                                     IFAD Loan
Estimate              Actual           Actual as % of          Estimate              Actual            Actual as % of
Estimate                                                        Estimate
1.   Civil Works                               420.0                717.1           171                       300.0                 118.5             40
11.  Equipment. Vehicles, Livestock            940.0                428.8            46                       500.0                 174.7             35
and Materials
111. Consultant Services and                 1,920.0              1,783.5            93                     1,700.0                 972.8             57
Training
IV. A. Operating Costs (IDA)                   690.0                516.9            75                                               -              110
B. Operating Costs (IFAD)                                        -                                       210.0                 231.1
V.  Commercial Poultry Operating                 -                    -               -                       200.0                 193.7             97
Costs
V]. PPF (Refunding)                            450.0                385.4            86                                                                          |      o
VIl. Initial Deposit in the                    130.0                 41.7            32                        90.0                  89.4             99
Special Account
VIII. Unallocated                              250.0                  0.0             0                       150.0                   0.0             0
TOTAL                                        4,800.0              3,873.4            81                     3,150.0                1,780.3            57



21
Table 4. Project Cost and Financing
(SDR '000)
IDA                    IFAD                 Government                Totul          Estimated
as % of
Estimated    Actual    Estimated    Actual    Estimated     Actual    Estimated    Actual      Actual
Civil Works                  450         717         340        118                                 790        835        106
Equipment, Vehicles,       1,000         429         610        175                                1,610       604         38
Livestock and Materials
Consultant Services and    2,650       2,169       2,000        973          -          -         4,650       3,142        68
Training                                       I           I                                  I            I
Operating Costs              700         559         200        514        890         670         1,790      1,743        97
Total                      4,800       3,873       3,150       1,780        890        670        8,840       6,324        72



2 2                                                                  Table S
page I of 3
Table 5. Project Implementation Indicators
A. Assistance to CADER's Operation
Unit       Appraisal Estimate             Actual            Actual as % of
SAR
a) Construction of new CADER                      No.                 2                        2                    100
B. Training Component _/
Unit       Appraisal Estimate             Actual            Actual as % of
SAR
a) Extension                                     No. of              153                       181                  1IS
people
b) Forestry/land conservation                                         29                       40                   138
c) Livestock                                                          24                        IS                   63
d) Data collection/maintenance,                                       17                        22                  129
planning, management
Total:                                                            223                      258                   116
Details are given in Annex 1, Table 10.



23                                                                 Table 5
page 2 of 3
Table 5. Project Implementation Indicators
C.  Livestock Component
Unit        Appraisal Estimate            AcTual         |ActlfaA
a) Animal Health
Expansion of existing labo. (equip)             No.                    1                        I              100
Vaccination (blackleg)                          No.                n.a.                    16,030 6/           ...
Control of ticks                                No.                n.a.                    14,355 7/            ...
Internal parasites treatment                    No.                n.a.                      24,728 I/          ...
b) Genetic Improvement                            No.                    5                        5              100
Imported bulls                                  No.                    3                        3              100
Imported rams                                   No.                    3                        3              100
Imported male goats                             No.                n.a.                     1,600               ...
Matings                                         No.                n.a.                     2,534               ...
Castrations                                     No.                n.a.                       560               ...
c) Poultry
Small Farm Poultry
- Vaccination (new castle)                    No. of                 198                    n.a.                ...
villages
- Distribution of cocks                                               60                       50               83
Semi-industrial Poultry
Parent stock - purchases                      No.                24,000                   3,735                16
- production                      No.               60,000                    n.a.               ...
Day-old chicks - purchases                    No.              322,000                  272,755
production                    No.                73,200                  109,132              149
- Feed production                               tons               2,965                      250                8
d) Marketing
Construction of slaughtering areas            No.                    8                      -
- Butcher stalls                                No.                   10
- Running water facilities                      No.                n.a.
6/  Vaccinations were carried out in Grande Comore only. Average number of vaccination
per year is about 3,200 or 12% of total cattle population of this island.
7/  Average number of treatment per year is about 2,900 or 3 %  of total cattle and small
ruminant population of Comoros.
8/  Average number of treatment per year is about 4,900 or 6%  of total cattle and small
ruminant population of Comoros.



24                                                                Table 5
page 3 of 3
Table 5. Project Implementation Indicators
D. Forestry Component
Unit       Appraisal Estimate            Actual           Actual as
I                   I                      I ~~~~~~~~~~~~ of SAR
a) Acrial PhotograDhy.
Land use mapping                                                                   Final report 1987        n.a.
b) Tree Plantins/Land Conservation
- Tree planting (uncultivated area)               ha               750                      216                29
- Farm forestry (cultivated area)
Fruit trees                                    ha               500                      50                 10
Forest/forage trees                            ha               500                      300                60
- Road side planting                              km               n a.                     700                        l
c) Trials and Studies
- Trials                                          ha               n. a.                     7                         l
- Studies (Land conservation)                                                          not carried out
d) Forests Management
- Maoueni                                         ha         500 (5,000 m'/ha)            - 9/0/ -I
- Kartala/Grille                                  ha        5,000 (4,250 m'/yr)            - 10/                -
e) Revision of Forest Le2islation
Use of State Forest                                                                  not carried out
Source: CEFADER.
2/ Only inventory carried out. Actual area is 300 ha.
10/ Forest area actually exploited uncontrolled.



25                                                           Table 6
page 1 of 2
Table 6. Project Results
A. Food Crops Component
Unit       Average         Appraisal        Actual at Full    Actual as % of
Yields Prior    Estimates at Full   Implementation   Estimate
to Project    Implementation
Total Yields:
Maize (a) 11/                          mt/ha         0.45              0.9               0.8              89
Maize (b) 12/                          mt/ha         n.a.              n.a.              0.7
Legumes                                mt/ha         0.35              0.7               0.6              86
Sweet potatoes                         mt/ha         2.75              3.5               8.0
Cassava                                mt/ha         5.00             6.25               5.0              80
Banana                                 mt/ha         7.00             8.75               7.0              80
Rice                                   mt/ha         0.30              0.3               0.3             100
Tomatoes                               mt/ha         n.a.              n.a.             12.0
Potatoes                               mt/ha         n.a.              n.a.             12.0
Onions                                 mt/ha         n.a.              n.a.             10.0
Area per Farmer:
Maize                                    ha                           0.18              0.12              67
Legumes                                 ha                            0.19              0.14              74
Sweet potatoes                           ha                           0.03              0.03             100
Cassava                                  ha                           0.10              0.20             200
Banana                                   ha                           0.09              0.09             100
Rice                                     ha                           0.12              0.10              83
Tomatoes                                 ha                            n.a.             0.02
Potatoes                                 ha                            n.a.             0.05
Onions                                   ha                            n.a.             0.03
Farmers Adopting New Techniques:
PY I 13/                                No.                            900               780              87
PY 2                                    No.                          2,700             2,100              78
PY 3                                    No.                          4,500             3,800              84
PY 4                                    No.                          7,200             5,800              81
PY 5                                    No.                          9,900             5,020              51
PY 6                                    No.                          12,600            3,700              29
PY 7 14/                                No.                          15,300            2,000              13
11/ Yields from farmers adopting full improved extension package.
12/ Yields from farmers using improved variety seed only.
13/ PY = Project Year.
14/ Mission's projections.



26                                                      Table 6
page 2 of 2
Table 6.  Project Results
B. Direct BeneGrsu
l                      l      Unit       |   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAR EstimateW 15PC  Estimate 16/ l
Total number of beneficiaries adopting  No. of people            26,000                    3,240
improved technique
Incremental Production:
Crops 17/: Maize                           tons                  2,041                      311
Cassava                                                     2,925                      n.a.
Yams/cocoyams                                                 520                     n.a.
Bananas                                                     3,870                      n.a.
Sweet potatoes                                              1,323                      840
Legumes                                                      1,676                      92
Vegetables                                                   na.                       624
Livestock: Beef                                                     78.8                     88
Mutton                                                       4.8                    n.a.
Poultry                                                    153                      150
Milk                                                       480                      110
Eggs                                unit               4.0 million              3.0 million
Wood: Fuelwood                               ml                  2,640
Sawnwood and poles                      m'                   5,500
C. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return                                           27%                      n.a.
N B.  The SAR estimated Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was 27%. For the purpose of this PCR it has not been
possible to estimaue the ERR which the project is now expected to achieve. Data collected by CEFADER made
available to the PCR mission, was incomplete or inadequate to carry out, ex post, the economic re-evaluation of
the project. No indications were given on actual project costs by component and data on project incremental
production referred only to milk, meat, maize, sweet potatoes, legumes and vegetables. However, as project
activities completely stopped in 1990 it is unlikely that the incremental crop and livestock production obtained
so far will be maintained in the future. Projections made by the mission indicate that by the end of the decade,
agricultural production, for certain crops, will fall again to pre-project level. (Annex 1, Tables 3, 5, 6, 7 and
8). In view of the above and in consideration of the poor performance of the forestry component, it is
reasonable to assume that the ERR will be close to zero.
5l/ By Year 11 of the project.
.16/ For livestock production average between 1988-91 and projections to Year 2001 as given
in Annex 1, Table 3.
17/ See details in Annex 1, Tables 5, 6, 7 and 8.



27
Table 7. Compliance with Major Covenants
Covenant                                       Status
3.03 a                     Opening of special account                      Complied with
3.03 b                     Opening of counterpart funding                  Complied with
3.04                       Opening of a materials account                  Complied with
4.01 b (i) and d           Submission of annual draft budgets              Complied with
4.01 f (i)                 Reorganization of CEFADER and CADERs            Complied with
5.01 c                     Audit of project accounts                       Partially complied with for 1990/91
5.01 d (i)                 Establishment of CADER and CEFADER accounts   Not complied with
5.01 d (iii)               Audit of above accounts                        Not complied with



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
FY78   FY79   FY80   FYtI   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93                     TOTAL
Preappraisal                  I        1                       2      49                                                                                          53
Appraisal                                                              7      37                                                                                  44
Negotiation                                                                    6                                                                                  6
Supervision                                                                    I       10      17      14     15       3       17      9                          86
Project Completion Report                                                                                      _               _               18      l          20
TOTAL                         I        I      0       0        2      56      44       10      17      14      16      3       17      9       18      I         209
NJ



B. Mission Data
Stage ot Project Cycle               |   Scnt by   |           Date          |   No. of      Period in the   Specialization Reprresented  Performance      Types of Problems
.                                      J |  |  Persons    Field                  18/                 Rating 19/.   |        _/
Identification                             IDA             March 1982             n.a.          n.a.                  n.a.
Preparation                                                    1982               n.a.          n.a.                  n.a.                    ...                 ...
Appraisal                                                   June 1983             n.a.           n.a.                 1.a.                     ...                ...
Supervision 21/                                             Oct. 1984              2             14                   E, ES                    2                 MT
Jan. 1985              1             16                    E                      2                 n.a.
(IFAD Preparation                    IFAD              July 1985              2             6                    n.a.                   n.a.                n.a.
Grant)
IDA             Sept. 1985              3             is                   n.a.                    3                 n.a.
April 1986           2 +2            16                   E, A                     3                 n.a.
*  *           Oct. 1986              2             13                   E, A                     2                 n.a.
*  *           April 1987             2             12                   E. A                     2                 n.a.
*  *           Sept. 1987              1             7                    SA                      3                 n.a.
(Mid-tcrm Review)                                      Dec. 1987            5 + 1           15           SA, F, FA, L, E, Ex              3                 n.a.
*  *           Aug. 1988           Form 590                                                                         n.a.
missing
July 1989              1             3                    FA                      3                  n.a
*  *           Dec.1989               1              8                    FA                      3
*  *           May 1990               2             14                   A, E                     3                 n.a.
Oct. 1990              2             11                  FA, A                    3                  n.a.
18/          SA=Senior Agronomist; A=Agronomist; E=Economist; FA=Financial Analyst; F=Forestry; L=Livestock;
Ex=Specialist.
19/          1 =problems free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; 3=major problems.
20/          F=Financial; M=Management; T=Technical; P=Political; O=Others.
21/          From  1985 combined with Supervision of Rural Services Project.






ANNEX  1: Table 1: Livestock Production (Fl Cows)
1988       1989      1990        1991          1992        1993       1994        1995        1996        1997        1998
Carryover Fl                                             -          40         116         215        255         263         237         192         155         126         102
Fl 22/                                                  50         100         150         100         70          30          -
Total                                                 50         140         266        315         325         293         237         192         155        126          102
Mortality (4%)                                           2           3          11          13          13         12           9           8          6           5            4
Culling (15%)                                            8          21          40          47         49          44          36          29         23          19           16
Total Cows end of year                                40         116         215        255         263         237         192         155         126        102           82
Milking Cows 23/                                        24          70         129         153         158         142        115          93         76          6:           49
Female Calves (P21                                      12          35          65         77          79          71          58          47         38          31           25
Mortality (8%)                                           1           3           5           6          6           6           6           5          4           3            3
Total Calves Feniale end of year                      I1          32          60         71          73          65          52          42         34          28           22
Male Calves (F2)                                        12          34          64          76         78          71          57          46         37          30           24
Mortality (8%)                                           1           3           5           6          6           6           5           4          3           2            2
Total Calves Malc end of year                         I1          31          59         70          72          65          52          42         34          28           22
Steer 1-2 Years                                          -          I1          31          59         70          72          65          52          42         34           28
Mortality (5%)                                                       1           2           3          4           4           3           3           2          2            2
Total cnd of year                                     -           10         29           56         64          68          62          49         40          32           26
22/           Number of Fl cows 'produced' by the project. (Source: CEFADER).
23/           Calving rate 60%.



ANNEX 1: Table 2: Livestock Production (F2/F3 Cows)
1988 24/     1989        990    1991      I992   1993        1994    1995       1996    1997   199S         1999      2000       2001
Carrvovcr Hcifers F2                     -           I1       32        60       71       73        65        52       42        34       28       22         -
Carryover Hcifers F3                     -           1         -         3        6        11       14        16       15        13       11        9         7          6
Total                                   -           1        32       63        77       84        79       63        57       47        39       31        7          6
Mortality (5%)                           -           -         2        34        4        4         4        3         2        2         2        2
Culling (10%)                            -           1         3        7         9        9         8        7         6        5         A        3         1          1
Tota end of year                                  10        27       53        64       71        67       58        49       40        33       26        6          5
Milking Cows 25/                         -           5        13        26       32       36        33        29       25        20       16        13        3          3
Calves Female F3/F4                      -           3         7        13       16        18       17        15       13        10        8        7         2          2
Morality (8%)                                                  1        I        I        A1        I         I        I         I        I         I                   :
Toul endof year                        -           8         6        12       15        17       16        14       12        9         7        6        2           2
Heifer 1-2 Yrs F3-F4                     -                     3        6        12        15       17        16       14        12        9        7         6          2
Mortality (5%)                           -          _          -        _                   I        I   1              1                      -        _     _
Toal end ofyear                        -           -         3        6        11        14       16        15       13        11        9        7        6           2
Calves MaleF3/F4                         -           2         6        13       16        is       16        14       12        10        S        6         1          1
Mortality (S%)                           -                               I        I        A         I         I       A         A         I         I                   -
Toulw ead of year                      -           2         6        12       15        17       15        13       11        9         7        5         1          1
Stcers 1-2F3/F4                           -           -        2         6       12        15       17        15       13        11        9        7         6          2
Mortality (5%)                                                 -        -         I         I        I         I        I         I        -         -
Sales                                                          2         6       11        14       36        14       12        10        9        7
Totul end of year                                 -               -             -             -         -        -             -         -        -          -
24/          Figures derived from  Table 1.
25/          Calving rate: 50%.



ANNEX 1: Table 3: Incremental Value of Livestock Production
1  1988  1988 89 8  1990       1991      1992  1  1993        1994      1995  1  1996        1997      1998      1999     2000      2001
A. Milk
Milking Cows F1 26/                   24        70        129        153      158        142        115        93        76         61        49        30       20        10
Mitking Cows F2/F3  7                  -         5         13         26       32         36         33        29        25         20        16        13        3         3
Incremental Mitk Production ('000 liters)
Cows Fl 28/                         28.8      84.0      154.8     183.6      189.6     170.4     138.0      111.6      91.2      73.2       58.8     36.0      24.0      12.0
Cows F2/F3 3/                         -        4.0       10.4      20.8       25.6      28.8      26.4       23.2      20.0       16.0      12.8      10.4      2.4       2.4
Total                           28.8       88.0      165.2     204.4     215.2      199.2     154.4      134.8     111.2      89.2      71.6      46.4     26.4      14.4
B. Incremental Meat Production (tons carcass weight)
Calving FI  O/                       1.3       3.5        6.7       7.9        8.2       7.3       6.0        4.9       3.9       3.2        2.7      2.0       1.0       0.5
Steers F2 L/                          -        1.0        2.8       5.4        6.1       6.5       6.0        4.7       3.8       3.1        2.5       1.8      0.8       0.4
Calving F2 L/                                  0.1        0.4       0.9        1.2       1.2       1.2        1.0       0.9       0.7        0.6      0.4       0.1       0.1
Steers F3/F4 33/                                          0.2       0.5        1.0       1.3       1.5        1.3       1.1       0.9        0.8      0.6       0.5       0.2
Total                             1.3       4.6       10.1      15.6       16.5      16.3      14.7       11.9       9.7       7.9       6.6       4.8      2.4       1.2
C. Gross Incremental Value of Livestock Production (CFA mittion)
Milk 34/                             4.3      13.2       24.8      30.7       32.3      29.9      23.2       20.2      16.7       13.4      10.7       7.0      4.0       2.2
Meat 35/                             1.6       5.8       12.6       19.5      20.6      20.4       18.4      14.9      12.1       9.9        8.3      6.0       3.0       1.5
Total                             5.9      19.9       37.4      50.2      52.9       50.3      41.6       35.1      28.8      23.3       19.0     13.0       7.0      3.7
Li
27/          As given in Table 1.
27/          As given in Table 2.
28/          Incremental production estimated at 6 I/cow/day over a lactation period of 200 days.
22/          Incremental production estimated at 4 I/cow/day over a lactation period of 200 days.
31/          Assuming 350 kg l.w. and 48%  offtake (see Table I for details).
32/          Assuming 200 kg l.w. and 48%  offtake (see Table 1 for details).
32/          Assuming 300 kg l.w. and 48%  offtake (see Table 2 for details).
ft1          Assuming 190 kg l.w. and 48%  offtake (see Table 2 for details).
34/          At CFA  150/liter.
35/          At CFA  1,250/kg.



34
ANNEX 1: Table 4: Agricultural Production
1985        1986         1987         1988        1989         1990
PRODUCTION VIVRIERE
1. Cult. viv. maraich4re
. Riz                                     3,450       3,700        3,000        3,050       3,050        3,055
. Mais                                    3,550       3,450        3,450        3,500       3,550        3,570
- Tubercules/f6cul. dont                   37,050       38,700      47,600       48.700       49,400       49.
. Manioc                                                          43,050       44,150       44,800      45,470
. Patate douce                                                     1,100        1,150        1,185        1,200
. Taro                                                             2,400        2,450       2,470        2,400
. Igname                                                            750          780          790          800
- L4gumineuses dont                         6,450       6,750        6,800        6.970        7,050       7,150
. Ambrevade                                nd           nd         4,080        4,180       4,230        4,250
. Arachide                                 nd           nd          680          690          695          700
- Banane                                   37,600       38,500      47,500       48,700       49,500       50,250
- Noix de coco (103)                       43,700      45,100       46,600       48,100       48,800       49,700
- Legumes divers                            1,250        1,400       1,500        1,550        1,570       2,000
- Fruits divers                             2,450       2,500        2,600        2.650       2.690        2.740
PRODUCTION ANIMALE
1. Viande dont
- Volaille                                 167          175          165         175          180          183
- Bovins                                    84           88                      895          920          945
-Ovin                                       83           87                       30           31           35
- Caprins                                  811          850          852         275          280          285
- Lait (10' L)                              12           13          29          900          925          950
-Oeufs (10' L)                             105          110          265        3.018        4.135       4.135
PRODUCTION COMMERCIALE (de rente)
- Vanille (verte)                          780          820          860        1,050         800        1,000
- Girofle                                 3,370       3,380        3,827        1,300        1,300        1,350
- Ylang-ylang (fleur)                     1,000         930        1,125        2,500       3,840        3,800
- Cafc                                    1,250        1,200       1,500          27           28           30
PECHE
- Production (kg)                         3,420       3,170        2,800        6,600       6,400        6,500
FORET
- Production forest. (m3)                                            25          475          486          490
Source: CEFADER - Centre Federal d'Appui au Developpement Rural.



35
ANNEX 1: Table 5: Project Incremental Maize Production
1986  1 1987    1988  1  1989  1  1990         1991
Crop Production
- Maize
Number of farmers: SAR parameters          900    2,700   4,500      7,200    9,900      12,600
(a) Adopting full improved                  80      200     250        -         -          -
package 36/
(b) Using improved variety                 700    1,900   3,550     5.800     5 020       3.700
seed only '/
Total with project                       780    2,100   3,800      5,800     5,020      3,700
Area (ha) SAR parameters                  162.0   486.0   810.0   1,296.0   1,782.0    2,268.0
(0.18 ha/farmer)
With project realization                   9.6    24.0    30.0         -         -          -
(0.12 ha/farmer) (a)
With project realization                  84.0   228.0   426.0    696.0    696.0          444.0
(0.12 ha/farmer) (b)
Total (a) + (b)                         93.6   252.0   456.0    696.0    696.0          444.0
Yieids (tons/ha) SAR  0.9
Project (a)           0.8
Project (b)           0.7
Production (tons) SAR                    145.8   437.4   729.0   1,166.4   1,603.8    2,041.2
Project (a)                                7.7    19.2    24.0         -         -          -
Project (b)                               58.8   159.6   298.2    487.2    421.4          310.8
Total (a) + (b)                         66.5   178.8   322.2    487.2    421.4          310.8
36/ Mission's estimates: Based on the quantities of improved seed distributed per year.
Each farmer cultivates 0.12 ha using 3.6 kg of seed (30 kg/ha) and renewed its seeds 4
years later.



36
ANNEX 1: Table 6: Project Incremental Legumes Production
1986  1  1987       1988  1  1989  1  1990         1991
Legumes:
Number of Farmers:
- SAR                                            900      2,700     4,500     7,200      9,900     12,600
(a) Adopting full technical package
(b) Using improved seed and tools only            600      1,980    3,080      3,080     2,480       1,100
Area (ha) SAR     0.19                            171       513       855      1,368      1,881      2,394
Adopters           0.14                            84       277       431       431        347         154
Yields (tons/ha) SAR                              0.7
(b) Adopters improved seed only                   0.6
Production (tons) SAR                           119.7     359.1     598.5      957.6    1,316.7    1,675.8
(b) Adopters                                     50.4      166.2    258.6      258.6      208.2       92.4



37
ANNEX 1: Table 7: Project Incremental Sweet Potatoes Production
1986     1987      1988      1989       1990        1991
Sweet Potatoes:
Number of Farmers:
- SAR                                       900     2,700     4,500     7,200      9,900       12,600
- Project                                    50       60       200       500       2,000        3,500
Area (ha)
- SAR      0.03 ha/farmer                    27       81        135      216         297         378
- Project   0.03 ha/farmer                  1.5       1.8       6.0      15.0       60.0         105
Yields (tons/ha)
- SAR                                       3.5
- Project                                   8.0
Production (tons)
- SAR                                      94.5     283.5    472.5    756.0    1,039.5        1,323.0
- Project                                  12.0      14.4      48.0     120.0      480.0       840.0



38
ANNEX 1: Table 8: Project Incremental Vegetable Production
1986      1987      1988  1  1989        1990        1991
Ve2etable Production:
1. Potatoes
Number of Farmers: 37/
- SAR                                           n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.         n.a.
- With Project                                   60       150        300       500        500         500
Area (ha)
- With Project    0.05 ha/farmer                3.0       7.5       15.0      25.0       25.0         25.0
Yields (tons/ha)
- With Project                                  12.0      12.0      12.0      12.0       12.0         12.0
Production (tons)                              36.0      90.0      180.0    300.0       300.0        300.0
2. Onions 38/
Number of Farmers - With Project                 50       120        220       280        280         180
Area (ha)
- With Project  0.03 ha/farmer                  1.5       3.6        6.6       8.4        8.4         5.4
Yields (tons/ha)
- With Project                                   10        10         10        10         10          10
Production (tons)
- With Project                                  15.0     36.0       66.0      84.0       84.0         84.0
3. Tomatoes 39/
Number of Farmers: V/
- SAR                                           n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.         n.a.
- With Project                                  160       400        800      1,000     1,000        1,000
Area (ha)
- With Project    0.02 ha/farmer                3.2       8.0       16.0      20.0       20.0         20.0
Yields (tons/ha)                                12.0      12.0      12.0      12.0       12.0         12.0
Production (tons)
- Incremental                                  38.4       96.0     192.0    240.0       240.0        240.0
37/ Mission estimates. Based on the quantities of seed distributed per year. Seeding rates:
potatoes 2,500 kg/ha; onions 0.5 kg/ha; and tomatoes 0.4 kg/ha.
38/ Production under improved technical package only.
39/ Mainly in Grande Comore and Anjouan.



39
ANNEX 1: Table 9: CEFADER/CADER Personnel as of December 31, 1990 40/
CEFADER            CADER               Total
Engineers                             39                 14                 53
Technicians                           53                 24                 77
Agents                                63                 63                 126
Extension Agents                       9                219                228
Supporting Staff                      110               114                224
Non-qualified Staff                   119               259                378
Total:                             393               693               1,086
Source: CEFADER.
40/ Excluding 210 non-qualified staff supported by WFP.



40
ANNEX 1: Table 10: Training Component
SAR 41/              Actual "       |        Remarks
. . . . . tNo. of People)   . . . . .
A. Extension:
CADER-Director/Assistants                                                 26 (L)                2/CADER
CADER-Accounts                                      11 (L)                13 (L)                1/CADER
- CADER-Extension Staff                              120 (L)               120 (L)
- CADER-Home Economics                                22 (L)                22 (L)
Sub-total (E):                                     -                     -
Sub-total (L):                                    153                   181
B. Forestry/Land Conservation:
- Director                                             1 (E)                   -
- CADER Tree PLanting/SoiL                            12 (L)                12 (L)
- Forestry Management Tech.                            3 (E)                 3 (E)             3 years each
"Ingenieurs Forestiers"
- Nursery Agents                                      11 CL)                11 CL)
- Photo Interpreter                                    1 (E)
- Draftsman                                             1 (E)
- Senior Forestry Technicians                                             14 CE) 42/           3 years each
Sub-total (E):                                       6                   17
Sub-total (L):                                      23                   23
C. Livestock:
- Director                                             1 (E)                 1 (E)               6 months
- CADER Vet. Nurses                                   12 (E)                 7 (E)                3 years
-Lab. Technicians                                      3 (E)                 2 (E)
- Island Supervisors                                   2 (E)
- Sanitation Agents                                    3 (E)                 1 (E)                 1 year
- Poultry Technicians                                  3 (E)                 3 (E)
- Poultry Unit Director                                                      1 tE)
Sub-total (E):                                     24                    15
Sub-total (L):                                     -                      -
D. Data Collection/Monitoring/
PLanning and Management:
-Director                                              l(E)                  1(E)                3 months
- Management                                                                 5 (E)               3 months
- Technicians (Geographer)                             1 (E)                 1 (E)               7 months
- Data Processors                                      2 (L)                 2 (L)
- Island Supervisors                                   1 (E)                 1 CL)
- CADER Enumerators                                   12 (L)                12 (L)
Sub-total (E):                                      3                     7
Sub-total (L):                                     14                    15
Total ExternaL Training:                                33                    39
TotaL Local Training:                                   190                  219
41/ (L) =  Local training; (E) =  External training.
42/ Of which 3 have not finished training yet and 2 have stopped training.



41
Annex 2
COMMENTS FROM IFAD
1.    We have received from FAO/IC a copy of the Project Completion Report prepared in
January 1992. As we understand, this report will be finalized for World Bank publication.
We would therefore like to inform you about our comments on the FAO/IC report which you
may wish to take into account in preparing the final draft.
2.     The report in general gives a good overview of the history of the project, although it
lacks an in-depth analysis of the reasons for certain shortcomings and design changes during
project implementation. Presumably, IDA staff involved in designing and supervising the
project would be in a better position to undertake such an analysis and will therefore
contribute these aspects to the final version of the report. The main reason for the poor
performance of the project in its second half was obviously the generally deteriorating
economic situation of the country, coupled with the political events starting in December
1989. Whether a more intensive supervision (the frequency and intensity of supervision
missions definitely decreased after the Mid-Term Review) would have helped to keep up the
performance level of the project remains an open question.
3.    The report puts emphasis on the fact that Government intervention in the agricultural
sector was not based on a well defined strategy and that the project suffered from the
uncoordinated intervention of a multitude of donors. This is certainly correct. However, a
distinction must be made between (see para 8.4 of the draft PCR):
(a)   the number of donor interventions in the sector which partly existed already
when the project started (and were perhaps not sufficiently taken into account
at the design stage) and partly were added on to the CEFADER/CADER
network during implementation; this multitude of uncoordinated activities
obviously overloaded the absorptive and manpower capacity of the system and
led to conceptual confusion and inefficiencies in those cases where different
donor approaches were adopted; and
(b)   the actual co-financing arrangements for the Rural Services Project; as you
know only two financing institutions were involved (IDA and IFAD) with
IDA administering both loans. Within the project, the "very close cooperation
and coordination" called for by the PCR was therefore fully assured during
most of the preparation and implementation period.
4.     Another important factor which influenced project performance and is well
emphasized in the PCR is related to the availability of local manpower. On the one hand,
there is a lack of qualified manpower (management and technical) which the project's training
activities aimed - but did not fully succeed - to reduce. On the other hand, the PCR points to
a serious proliferation of unqualified and undefined local staff, increasing recurring costs
without leading to productivity or performance improvements. The need to remain within
appraisal limits as far as staff recruitment is concerned and to keep a constant check on the
quality of local staff, should therefore be added to the "Lessons Learned" (para 9.2 of the
draft PCR).



42
5.     As to the impact of the project, a more detailed analysis should be made as to why
appraisal targets in most cases were not reached and why, in particular, the total number of
beneficiaries adopting new techniques was so much lower than estimated at appraisal. A
combination of lack of funds and lack of motivation of the extension service; inadequate
technical messages; and incapability to arouse the interest of the farming population, certainly
contributed to the disappointing result. The weight of each of these and possible other
factors. should. however, be assessed in more detail in order to draw lessons for future
interventions.



430                                                                             44                                                                              45
COMOROS
Mitsamiou li                                                                                                           COMORES
Chezanli
Iv nbeni             GRANDE   COMORE                                                                             0         National Capitol
Copitole du Pays
Hahaja  -jb   ,Jo0                                                                                                             Towns
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vill9-s
Koumbani                                                                                                         Poved Roads
Routes Goudronne.s
MORONI
Iconi                   Bandamad                                                                                                 Ports
1%       Airports
Foumbouni                                                                                                  0 Aeroponts
Dembe n
0             20             40             60
KILOMETERS L                                               I
120                                                                                                                                  0           10          20          30         40                120-
MUTSAMUDUA
MOHELI                                                    -a bao
Hoani                                       Si
f.-O FOMBON I
Miringoni                                                                          Rem-i
Wanani                                       Maya       M'Renuni
Niou ach                                                 ANJOUAN
CANZONI l&  OUENEFOUl I I
43
/   >->                 _  _  I~~~~~~~ntemnodonol Boundories
Fronti.ns In.motiongo.s
SEYCHELLES
IM)AWI qUS                                                   |MAYOTTE                                                                                                               DZAOUDZI
MAURJrIUS                                                                                                  FR.                            FR.
>                                           Raunion Is                     130            _,,, ,_.=                                                               450
FR.                         1 3                  -0   .v.  .         a n 4 5 
440                                             45'                                           C>~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- a, ,.D.1 am. aw - . - 1,. rin  ..raW               NIJc



