Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 4775-COM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
March 26, 1984
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa and
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       African Development Bank
BDPA      Bureau pour le Developpement de la Production Agricole
BEPC      Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle
CADER     Centre d'Appui au Developpement Rural
CIMMYT    Centro Internacional de Majoramiento de Maiz y Trigo
CEFADER   Centre Federale d'Appui au Developpement Rural
CTFT      Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
EDF       European Development Fund
FAC       Fond d'Aide et de Cooperation
GOC       Government of Comoros
IEMVT     Institut d'Elevage et de Medicine Veterinaire pour les pays
Tropicaux
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILTA      International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
IRAT      Institut de Recherche d'Agronomie Tropicale
IRHO      Institut de Rercherche pour les Huiles et les Oleagineux
MPIA      Ministere de la Production de l'Industrie et de L'Artisanat
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
SOCOVIA   Societe Comorienne d'lmportation des Viandes et des Produits
Alimentaires
UNECA     United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
UNCDF     United Nations Capital Development Fund
ULNECA    United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
WFP       World Food Program
Exchange Rate
364 Comorian Francs (CFA) = US$1 (1 US Dollar)
50 Comorian Francs (CFA) = FF1 (1 French Franc)
(The Comorian Franc is tied to the French Franc)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I   BACKGROUND
A. The Project .................... s.  1
B. General Overview of the Economy ............ .*.......*.   1
C. Bank Group Role .3,......... ..............e.,   3
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND PROJECT RATIONALE
A. Climate, Topography, Soils           .......     ................  4
B. Agriculture and Land Use .*.............               ....sees.*.     4
C. Livestock  ........ .........,..,.....e... ,.,....... es.  6
D. Forestry and Farm Forestry ......O...* ...* .0. ...*.*....    7
E. Institutions ..... ........ .....@  *............   8 E
F. Ongoing Aid to Agriculture .......... 9
G. National Strategy for Agriculture and
Project Objectives ............. o........... .l........ 1i
rII. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description  ... *. ...... *..*e. ..... ...e. 12
B. Detailed Features:
l. Project Data Collection, Monitoring and
Planning Unit .............1}3
2. Assistance in Financial Management and
Administration of the CEFADER .,....,.........  14
3. Training and Supervision System .......15.......... *O..  D
4. Assistance to Establishment and Operation of CADERs... 10
5. Strengthening CEFADER's Livestock Division               .        1,
6. Strengthening Forestry, Farm Forestry and
Land Conservation Activities   .,...............,  1b
C. Special Features  .... o  ...es.......      ......        .... . . .    20
D. Project Costs: Total Costs, Operating Costs,
Budgetary Implications ............................ . 21.
E. Financing Plan ................... ...................... . 25
F. Procurement and Disbursement ........................ 27
G. Status of Engineering ..           ................ ...... ..  ...  28.
H. Accounts and Audit:  Revolving Fund  .................... 2b
I. Environmental Impact                ........... ....  0....... . *,  31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornmance of
their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND *MANAGEMENT
A. CEFADER Management ........ o..t ...... *..............   31
B. CADER Management  ....... O*..* .... *..** .       *.*......      31
C. Monitoring, Evaluation and Work Programs .....0..........   33
D. Project Mid-Term Review *              .     ............O..... .......  33
V.  PRODUCTION AND PROJECT BENEFITS
A. Technical Packages  ...........................  .                34
B. Studies and Trials . ......  .... ...... ............   O         36
C. Benefits   ......*.*......                ,                       37
D. Risks ....... ¢                                                 $   $ 40
VI.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS                        40
LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table I: Project Cost Summary  *         ........... ..... ........  22
2   Operating Costs:  Financing Plan:
Government Conltribution (MCFAF)   ..... 0..............  23
3   CEFADER/CADER Annual Operating Costs .................   24
4   Financing Plan ..................... ...  26
5;  Proposed Procurement Method ..........................  27
6 : Disbursements . ...      ...    ........ ...... O...# ...  29
7 : Production With and Without the Project ........ .....  36



ANNEXES TO STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANNEXES:
I      Chart I - Existing Organization Chart of CEFADER/CA.DERs
Chart 2 - Revised Organization Chart of CEFADER/CADERs
2   : Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
3   : Table 1   : Project Component by Time
Table 2   : Project Cost by Expenditure Category
Table 3   : Price Contingencies
Table 4   : Project Related Recurrent Costs
Table 5   : Project and CEFADER Estimated Operating Costs
and Government Cash Flow
4   :  Special Features
App. 1    : Technical Assistance and Terms of Reference
for Technical Assistance
App. 2    : Incremental Staff Requirements and
Training Program
Table 1   : Project Training Requirements
Table 2   : Staff Training Schedule
5   : Supporting Tables
Table I   : Land Use Potential on the Comoros Islands
Table 2   : Estimated Production, Yield, Area ancl Food
Value Per Hectare of the Main Crops, 1980
Table 3   : Livestock Numbers and Production (1980)
Table 4   : Forest Area, 1982
Table 5   : Summary of Import Parity Prices (IPP) -
1984 Constant Prices
Table 6      Foodcrops:  Productivity Increase Parameters
Parameters
Table 7   : Livestock Productivity Increase Parameters
Table 8      Forestry:  Production Increase Parameters
6   : Project Preparation Facility
Table 1   : Costs of PPF
7A  : Implementation Schedule Chart:  Bar Chart
7B     Detailed Implementation Schedule:  Activity Chart
8   :  Summary of Principal Projects in the Rural Sector
9      Material Available in Implementation Volume






COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Project
1.01      The Government of Comoros has requested the assistance of IDA and
IFAD for the financing of a Rural Services project. Its objective would be
to strengthen the recently established rural services institution, the
CEFADER/CADER,1/ so that it may function more effectively as the network
for agricultural extension and provision of services and hence increase
agricultural, livestock and forestry productivity. The CEFADER is the
technical arm of the Ministry of Production and provides technical support
and guidance at federal level to the extension and service centers, the
CADERs, established at regional level. Project components would include:
strengthening the monitoring, planning and administrative capacity of the
CEFADER; establishment of clear work programs for all staff with regular
training and supervision; logistical support to and completion of the
geographical coverage of the CADERs; and strengthening livestock, forestry
and land conservation activities.
1.02      The need for intervention in the livestock sub-sector was
originally identified by IFAD in 1981. The Rural Services project was
identified by IDA in March 1982, and in September 1982 the decision was
taken to unite the two projects in order better to coordinate CEFAJER/CADER
activities. IFAD made available a grant of US$300,000 for preparation of
the livestock component. This project was prepared jointly by IDA and
Government. An appraisal mission consisting of M. Bromhead and P. Blanc
(IDA), B. Johnson (IFAD), and E. Debazac and Ben David (consultants)
visited the Comoros in June 1983.
B. General Overview of Economy
1.03      The Comoros Archipelago, located between the northern end of
Madagascar and the African mainland, consists of four islands, Grande
Comore, Anjouan, Moheli, and Mayotte which is still under French
administration. The three islands under Comorian Government, which gained
independence in 1975, have a population of approximately 375,000 which is
largely rural. Twenty percent of the population live in the eight towns of
5,000 people or more, while the principle town, Moroni, has a population of
only 25,000. Per capita GDP is estimated at US$270 dollars. The islands
are of volcanic origin and mountainous, and there are wide micro-climatic
variations, depending on altitude and relation to the trade winds.
1/   CEFADER is the Centre Federal d'Appui au Developpement Rura:L (Federal
Center for Support to Rural Development); the CADERs are Centres
d'Appui au Dtveloppement Rural (Centers for Support to Rural
Development).



- 2 -
1.04      Agriculture provides the livelihood of 80% of the people, while
it contributes about 40% of GDP and virtually all export earnings. It is
likely to continue to be the main source of growth through the 1980's. The
industrial sector is little developed, consisting mostly of simple
agricultural processing. Comoros has no mineral resources, while the
distance of the islands from major population centers, poor communications
and the lack of a good natural harbor are drawbacks to the development of
manufacturing. Transport links between the islands are very poor, though
recent investments have substantially improved road infrastructure.
Furthermore, the skill level of the population is low. Adult literacy
rates are only about 20%. Health conditions are exceptionally poor. Life
expectancy is only 46 years, child mortality rates are high and malaria is
hyperendemic. Malnutrition is widespread. Food intake is an estimated
1940 calories per day (only 85% of FAO recommended standards), and protein
intake 48 gms. per day, mostly originating from starches and cereals.
1.05      Population growth is an estimated 2.7% per year, and the islands
are densely populated. Anjouan, with a population of 150,000 for 424 sq.
kms. (350 persons/sq. km.) is the most densely populated. Grande Comore,
the largest island, has a population density of 203 persons/sq. km., and
Moheli, the smallest, of 38 persons/sq. km.
1.06      Despite its importance to the economy, agricultural land is
scarce on Comoros. The three islands have a total area of 1660 sq. kms.;
however, only about half of this is suitable for pasture or cultivation.
Much of the land is steeply sloping, and is better suited to a mixture of
tree crops and pasture than arable crop cultivation. A maximum of 50,000
ha or one ha for 7 people, are suitable for mixed foodcropping (See Annex
5). As population pressure has increased, steep land has been brought
under cultivation, fallow periods have been eliminated and soil degradation
and erosion problems have developed.
1.07      Under the colonial administration, while expansion of export
crops (copra, cloves, vanilla and ylang ylang) was encouraged, foodcrop
cultivation was neglected. The Comoros rapidly became dependent on
imported food, especially imported rice and meat, which now account for 40%
of calorie intake, and constitute a heavy foreign exchange burden; these
two products alone accounted for 38% of the value of imports over the
1980-82 period, while their average value was equivalent to 75% of the
total value of export earnings. Comoros has a substantial balance of
payments deficit; imports totalled CFAF 10,724 million (US$29 million) in
1982, while the value of exports was CFAF 5,485 million (US$15 million).
1.08      Since independence, the Comorian economy has been substantially
dependent on foreign aid. Figures on GDP are highly tentative, but it is
estimated that nominal GDP growth was rapid between 1977 and 1982, when it
reached CFAF 35.1 billion CUS$96 million). However, development aid
financed virtually all investments, totalling 29% of GDP in 1982, and it is
estimated that foreign financed expenditure accounted for 72% of public
expenditure in the 1980-82 period. Foreign aid has been greatest in the
transport sector. However, it has also been considerable in agriculture;
the total value of foreign financed projects underway in the agricultural
sector in 1983 was CFAF 9.4 billion (US$26 million).



- 3 -
1.09      The major donors are French official aid and the AfDB, followed
by the EDF, UNDP, WFP and IDA. The Comorian Government has lacked planning
capability, both at the level of the agricultural sector and of the economy
in general. Coordination between projects has been poor, and projects
financed have not always been those of highest development priority.
The problem of planning at national level has been addressed through a
Technical Assistance project financed by UNDP with IDA as executing
agency. An interim plan, the first for the Comoros, has been prepared for
the period 1983-86, and a donors' conference is planned for mid-1984.
However, the Ministry of Production and CEFADER/CADER at present lack
adequate project planning or monitoring capability, and this reduces the
effectiveness of their activities.
1.10      Donors to the Comoros generally finance not only foreign and
local investment costs but also the great majority of local operating
costs, since Comorian public financial management has been poor and the
revenue base insufficient to meet its operating budget requirements. The
tax base is limited, consisting mostly of indirect taxes and import and
export tariffs, and revenue collection has been weak. The budget deficit
has been covered by subventions through French aid, which amounted to about
30% of the recurrent budget in 1981. Tax collection has recently improved
substantially, however, with the creation of the AGI (Administration
Generale des Impots) and the training of tax officials with IMF and FAC
assistance. Realized revenues increased from CFAF 3 billion in 1981 to
CFAF 4.2 billion in 1982. They are expected to be CFAF 4.8 billion for
1983, and could rise to CFAF 5.4 billion in 1984. After this however,
there will be less scope for further increases, given the limited tax
base. Until the tax base increases through income growth, the Comorian
economy is likely to continue to be dependent on foreign aid for financing
much of its investment effort. The scale and composition of investments in
the Comoros must be viewed within the framework of the limited scope of
Government to support the recurrent costs of projects once they are
underway.
1.11      Government attaches high priority to agricultural development and
food self-sufficiency is one of its goals. However, since most recurrent
costs are financed by external donors through projects, this priority has
not been reflected in its budgetary allocations to agriculture, which
received only 1 1/2% of the 1983 recurrent budget. Rural services do not
enter as a budgetary item at all in the recurrent budget; before the
CEFADER/CADER was created with external aid, rural extension services were
not federally financed. The costs of the extension service must gradually
be incorporated into the recurrent budget.  The costs of operating the
Rural Services Network would be approximately CFAF 380 million a year by
1989 (in 1984 constant prices), or 7% of the Government revenues of CFAF
5.4 billion expected for 1984 (see also para 3.26).
C. Bank Group Role
1.12      Since Comoros became a member of the World Bank Group in 1975,
six projects have been financed, including two roads projects, and one
project each in education, health, IDF and agriculture, totalling US$27.4
million. The Education project financed in 1980 (Cr. 1195-COM of US$6



-4-
million), includes a component for the construction of an agricultural
training school on Moheli, which should be completed in 1984, and would be
used mainly for upgrading agricultural staff. The agricultural project
(Cr. 1035-COM of US$5.7 nillion) aims to increase copra production by
replanting aging coconut trees with improved varieties, reducing crop
losses through rodent control, and improving copra processing.
1.13      Experienice with project implementation has been mixed and
reflects the two major institutional constraints to development; lack of
skilled manpower, and lack of funds for recurrent costs. Progress with the
Coconut project, under the responsibility of a Project Director in the
CEFADER, has been generally satisfactory. Government has met its share of
local costs, financed through a revolving fund with an increasing share of
the costs met by Government and a decreasing share by IDA.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND PROJECT RATIONALE
A. Climate, Toporahy,Sol
2.01      The islands are of volcanic origin and their uneven relief gives
rise to a wide variety of micro-climates within a short distance. The
islands are mountainous; altitudes rise to 2,300 meters on Grande Comore
and 1,600 meters on Anjouan. However, the highest points of the islands
are 10 kilometers or less from the ocean. Mountain slopes are steep;
slopes of over 60% cover nearly half of Anjouan and 40% of Moheli.
Temperatures vary little year-round, and while the main rains fall between
December and June, over much of the islands' area there is precipitation
every month. Average daily maximum temperatures vary from 330C on the
coast to 160C at the highest altitudes. Precipitation varies widely,
according to altitude and exposure to the Trade Winds, Rainfall averages
2,500 mms on the uplands and 1,500 to 2,000 mms on the west coasts. The
east coast of Grande Comore is drier and drought-prone, with annual
rainfall of 1,000 to 1,200 mms and a rainy season of only 3 to 4 months.
2.02      Soil fertility varies widely.  Volcanic soils of fairly recent
origin cover much of Grande Comore and are very stony; arable land is
scarce and can only be cultivated through destoning. The soils are very
permeable and there exist no natural streams on Grande Comore and little
groundwater. The older tropical ferralitic soils, mostly in Anjouan, are
relatively fertile but their structure is vulnerable to erosion.
Increasing cultivation caused by population pressure on steep slopes with
heavy rainfall exposed to the trade winds has inevitably caused severe
erosion, especially on Anjouan.
B, Agriculture and Land Use
2,03      Soil conditions, relief and climate, and the high population
density explain current land use patterns. There are approximately 55,000
farm families, and although there is little reliable information on farm



size, a 1976 study indicated that average farm holdings were 0.84 ha on
Grande Comore, 0.33 ha on Anjouan and 3.75 ha on Moheli, divided into
several plots often several kilometers apart. No yield or area surveys
have been carried out since 1971, but it is estimated that the annual
foodcrops and bananas cover about 40,000 ha, coconuts a further 30,000 ha
and the export crops about 8,000 ha (Annex 5, Table 3). (There are no
estimates for the other fruit trees, although their combined area is
significant). A land capability survey carried out in the mid-1970's
classified a maximum of 51,000 ha as suitable for annual crops (Annex 5,
Table 1). The latest land use maps date from aerial photography carried
out in 1969, but there have been substantial changes since then. Lack of
information on land use is a constraint to the preparation of agricultural
development programs. Preparation of land use maps to meet this gap should
receive high priority, and are envisaged under the proposed project.
2.04      The ecological diversity gives rise to a wide variety of farm
systems, and the land tenure pattern is complex. Two major systems
predominate, upland and lowland farming. Below 600 m, tree crops are
dominant. Bananas and other fruit trees, bread fruit, jack fruit and
citrus are produced for local consumption,  Coconuts are now mostly
consumed locally since exports have declined due to increasing local demand
and poor world prices. Cloves and ylang-ylang are produced for export.
Tree crops on partially cleared forest lands form shade for vanilla vines
and are frequently mixed with food crops (cassava,maize, bananas and pigeon
peas). In the uplands up to 1,000 m, foodcrops dominate, including rice,
maize, pigeon peas, groundnuts, beans and sweet potatoes on the better
soils. On the less fertile soils of recent volcanic origin, grass and
brushlands remain uncultivated while above the cultivated areas, scme
forest land remains. Apart from hill rice, mostly cultivated as a pure
crop, food crops are usually grown in association. Average yields are low,
reflecting simple cultivation techniques, primitive tools, elimination of
fallowing, and the almost total lack of fertilizer, improved seed or pest
control. Double-cropping is very rarely practiced.
2.05      Government marketing and pricing policies are liberal.  The major
constraints to improved productivity are technical. Until 1980, there
existed no agricultural extension service in Comoros, and food production
has not kept pace with population growth; rice imports have increased from
5,900 tons in 1961 to 25,000 tons at present. Production increases are
badly needed, if this trend is to be reversed.
2.06      Given the land shortages, increases must come about through
productivity improvements. There has been relatively little applied
research in Comoros. However, BDPA (Bureau du Developpement de la
Production Agricole) and IRAT (Institut de Recherche de l'Agronomi,e
Tropicale) did valuable work in the 1960's and early 1970ts develolping a
maize/legume package as an alternative to upland rice which has little
potential and makes poor use of the soil (see Annex 5, Table 2).
There is scope over the short term for improvements in productivity through
introduction of simple improved techniques including row planting, stone
removal, simple terracing and anti-erosion hedges, and use of improved hand
tools and improved seed. There is scope for improving banana productivity,



- 6 -
while among the tubers, sweet potatoes have the greatest potential. Of the
export crops, the best potential probably lies with vanilla, whose current
yields could easily be doubled with better crop husbandry. These
productivity increases could be secured by improvements in the extension
system, envisaged under the proposed project.
C. Livestock
2.07      Animal husbandry is an important activity in Comoros, and most
farmers raise cattle, sheep, goats and a variety of small animals
(chickens, rabbits, ducks, pigeons). The animal population is estimated at
40,000 cattle, 6,000 sheep and 42,000 goats, 500 donkeys and 50,000 fowls
and other small livestock. Cattle, sheep and goats all vary widely in
conformation, and there has been little improvement from breeding with
improved stock. Estimated animal production is indicated in Annex 5, Table
3.
2.08      There are two main types of livestock raising.  In the farming
areas, cattle are generally tethered, and moved from one area to another.
They receive a feed supplement, usually kitchen waste or crop residues,
but these provide them insufficient nourishment. Goats may form small
herds and find their nourishment on spare pastures or garbage heaps around
villages. In the uplands animals are grouped into small herds and graze on
pasture, brushland or partially cleared forest land. These grazing areas
are mainly of poor quality. Animals, especially on Grande Comore, where
there is little natural run-off, suffer from lack of water.
2.09      Although animal pathology is fairly simple, with few of the major
infectious diseases, many animals are seriously infested with internal and
external parasites, which retard growth, lower yields, and may cause other
infections to develop. Some of the common infectious diseases of poultry
are present, and lack of treatment facilities, combined with
uncontrolled imports of day-old chicks, exposes the poultry population to
most of the classical diseases existing worldwide.
2.10      Under the colonial regime, there existed no animal production or
health service. Livestock product imports, mostly meat, with a little milk
and fish, have risen over the past few years and in 1982 totalled 1,500
tons, 17% of the value of food imports. Livestock productivity could be
substantially increased by gradual introduction of some simple measures,
including a simple animal health service to treat the most common diseases
and organize vaccination campaigns; improvement in forage grasses and
bushes; improved rainwater catchment areas; and controlled imports of
improved stock and cross breeding. These activities have been the subject
of studies and testing under a Project Preparation Grant financed by IFAD
in November 1982 (see para 2,26), and would be implemented under the
proposed project.



- 7 -
D. Forestry and Farm Forestry
2.11      Approximately 10.6% of the islands' area is under tree cover (see
Annex 5, Table 4). The main natural forests are on the slopes of the
Kartala volcano, and on La Grille plateau. There has been
over-exploitation of the commercial species, and the forests are seriously
degraded. Forest lands have been increasingly cleared for agricultural
purposes because of growing population pressure. Forest management plans
do not exist at present. There has been some growth of artificial forests
since the 1950's. The most important of these is a 500 ha eucalyptus
forest on northern Grande Comore at Maoueni; most of the trees have
attained commercial size, and managed exploitation of the forest would
increase substantially the availability of wood and reduce pressure on the
remaining natural forests. There have been other smaller reforestation
programs, on an ad hoc basis around the islands; but there is little
information on the quality of maintenance or potential productivity.
Reforestation activities, however, have provided an important insight into
the appropriate tree types and planting techniques; new plantations may
thus benefit from this experience.
2.12      Present wood needs in the Comoros are currently covered almost
entirely by local production; imports are minimal. Fuelwood, which
accounts for 85% of energy consumption, is mostly collected, both from
forest and non-forest sources. The high prices charged for wood,
equivalent to the price of the best imported hardwoods, are indications of
its scarcity. If measures to manage forest lands are not undertaken, the
islands' growing population would have increasingly to depend on imports
for its wood and energy needs.
2.13      Forests were the subject of concessions during the colonial
period; 5,000 ha of the Kartala forest are still in private ownership, and
there are no legal controls over its use. The State has the right to
charge stumpage fees for trees cut in State forests; though rates are
modest, these are rarely collected. The State is far from drawing its
justified revenue from woodland; there is a need for revision of forest
legislation for both privately owned and State forests,
2.14      Outside the forests trees play an important role in Comoros, as a
fertilizing element, a shelter, a fooderop, a forage crop and a source of
fuelwood. Controlled planting of fuelwood and fodder trees on brushnland,
and on land of recent volcanic origin would improve these lands productive
use.
2.15      Measures to protect existing forests and improve farm forestry
and land conservation measures are proposed under the project. They would
include management plans for existing forests; farm forestry combined with
anti-erosion measures on cultivated lands; and fuelwood and forage wood
plantings on brushlands.



-8-
E. Institutions
The CEFADER
2.16      In the first years after Independence, a national agricultural
extension system did not: exist in Comoros. The CEFADER/CADER system was
established in 1980 when the Government, aware of the total lack of rural
services, created, with FAO and UNDP assistance, the framework of a
system.  According to its statutes, 'its principle role is to extend
technical information from research to farmers.' The CEFADER is
responsible for conceiving programs, and for technical, financial and
administrative supervision; the CADERs are responsible for extension,
provision of inputs and services, collecting information for monitoring
activities, assisting farmers in obtaining credit from credit institutions,
and provision of information on and support to the formation of groups for
marketing, The existing organization chart of the CEFADER (Annex 1)
includes agronomy, livestock, forestry, rural development (infrastructure),
economics and agricultural research, home economics, nutrition and training
and extension divisions, though as yet only the agronomy and home economics
and recently the livestock divisions are active.
2.17      Five CADERs have been established so far (see map). Mibimi on
Moheli covers 15 of the 20 villages on the island. Tsembehou and Mremani
on Anjouan currently cover about 40% of the island's population. Grande
Comore, with 55% of the total population, is less well covered. There are
two CADERs covering between them. about one-quarter of the island's
population. The aim of the Government is eventually to serve the entire
rural population through CADERs. Each CADER has a director, an assistant
director and an accountant. Each has an average of 10 extension agents,
one for about 500 families, and two home economists. Most CADERs also have
technical assistance through a UN volunteer who is a trained agronomist.
Each has a few hectares of land on which crop trials are carried out, a
poultry farm and Mibimi on Moheli has a small cattle stall.
2.18      Four more CADER buildings, financed by UNCDF, are under
construction, two on Grande Comore and two on Anjouan. Two 'Pre-CADERs' in
eastern Grande Comore have a core staff and some activities. Government
has requested IDA to finance the completion of these two. These six new
CADERs when fully staffed, would extend the geographical coverage of the
CEFADER/CADER system to cover the entire population of the country. About
half the required staff of the new CADERs have already been redeployed to
them from other posts. Approximately 50 additional lower level and 20
middle and upper level st:aff would be needed to complete staffing.
However, of the former, about 20 could be available for reassignment from
other posts where they are not used effectively; thus the total incremental
lower level staff required to operate the new CADERs fully would not be
very great. Thirty seven Comorians are currently undergoing higher level
training abroad; a substantial proportion of these should return to fill
the middle and higher level positions. Nevertheless, a considerable
training effort would be required to adapt staff to fill their new CADER
positions, both initial training, and, above all, in-service training.



-9-
F. Ongoing Aid to Agriculture
2.19      Since its inception, the CEFADER/CADER has benefitted from
substantial foreign aid. The value of projects underway is approximately
US$26 million (see also Annex 8). The major activities are described
below.
2.20      UNOP (project costs US$3.6 million 1979-82) was responsible for
equipping the five first CADERs, providing technical assistance to the
CEFADER, paying the salaries of UN volunteers and some operating costs.
Operating costs are now mostly paid by Government. Technical assistance
originally included an extension specialist, and a home economist.
Assistance is now limited to the program coordinator and to an agronomist,
who has concentrated on developing horticulture, on seed multiplication
programs and on variety trials on the main foodcrops (maize, pigeon peas
and other legumes, tubers and cassava).
2.21      While the UNDP program has been successful in establishing the
CEFADER structure, in channelling aid to the CEFADER/CADERs and has done
useful work in home economics and agronomy, it has been less successful in
developing extension messages and instigating systematic work programs and
supervision for extension staff. These programs need to be established to
make effective use of staff.
2.22      The most important program in financial teris has been US$7
million (1980-84) in food aid financed by the WFP (World Food Program) for
programs in land terracing and tree planting for erosion control, rural
road improvement and maintenance, cisterns, and assistance to the extension
effort by reimbursement in kind of village 'animators.' During 1981,
achievements included conservation and terracing of 750 ha, 120 kilometers
of rural road maintenance, establishment of 58 village nurseries and 200 ha
of upland reforesting. While these achievements are quantitatively
impressive, there has been insufficient technical supervision and
follow-up; quality improvements and careful attention to maintenance will
be necessary to ensure the programs have lasting impact. However, there is
at present no forester/land conservation specialist in the CEFADER who can
devote himself to improving these very important programs. WFP funds are
likely to be renewed in 1984.
2,23      The IDA Coconut project (US$5.2 million, established in 1980) has
had some success in encouraging rat control measures (approximately 35% of
the coconut crop is lost to rodents) and replanting aging coconut trees
with higher yielding varieties. However, the Project was started before
the CEFADER/CADER system was well established, and when it was believed
that Government's budgetary position would improve. More effective use
could be made of the 30 coconut specialLsts if they were integrated within
the general extension system; furthermore the annual operating costs of the
program, estimated at CFAF 60 million at appraisal, need to be much
reduced. A mid-term review to address these issues took place in March
1984. The Coconut project has also provided technical assistance for



- 10 -
improvement in accounting and financial management at the CEFADER/CADERs
kpreviously very inadequate, without even proper bookkeeping). There have
been substantial improvements, but further assistance is needed.
2.24      One particularly successful project has been the EDF Maize
project (1980, US$1.6 million), which encourages the adoption of the
maize/legume package (para 2,06), 4,000 farmers planted an average of 0.25
ha each of maize in 1982, with yields of 900 kgs/ha compared with 450
kgs/ha for traditional maize.  The program benefits from a technical
assistant with long experience in Comoros.
2.25      Poultry farming has benefitted from UNICEF, EDF and UNDP aid to a
total volume of US$2.3 million. A unit with annual production capacity of
300 tons of meat and 4 million eggs is near completion, with a feed
unit; however, there are serious management problems. The peasant poultry
programs furthermore have had little lasting impact. Local staff need to
be trained to operate the industrial units commercially, while peasant
poultry programs need to be redesigned.
2.26      IFAD is financing a project preparation grant of US$300,000,
administered by IDA, approved in November 1982 for collecting information
and elaborating extension themes preparatory to the establishment of a
small livestock service. Activities have included a review of animal
health constraints through laboratory analysis and trials; a study of feed
resources for livestock; an examination of herd productivity; and review of
sanitation regulations.
2.27      Until recently, an integrated approach to applied research was
lacking. Applied research and variety trials have been undertaken, but as
part of specific externaLly financed projects, with limited objectives.
Since early 1983, integrated research activities have been financed through
the FAC-financed Research and Development project (US$0.75 million).
Detailed studies on farming systems are currently under way, in order to
obtain a typology of farrns on transects from low to high altitudes.
Studies on local crop varieties have begun. Research themes will include
variety selection for foodcrops, fertility control, the use of trees and
forage trees, and soil conservation techniques. Establishment of links
with international research bodies is also foreseen under the FAC project.
2.28      In addition, AfDB financed in 1978 a Vanilla/Clove project
(US$7.6 million). Desigred during the previous regime, the Project has
never been adapted to the present political climate, and US$5.7 million
remained undisbursed. AfDB intends to redesign the project and also to
identify a second project in the export crop sub-sector during 1984,
integrated within the CEFADER. An Integrated Rural Development project
(US$10 million) was appraised in March 1982 for the Nioumakele area of
Anjouan, including substantial technical assistance, rural roads
improvements, village marketing centers and an independent project
management unit.



- 11 -
2.29      All projects are in principle within the CEFADER/CADER system,
and all finance most local costs including local salary costs. A
problem of the 'project dependent' nature of activities, however, has been
that the CEFADER/CADER has not functioned as a unified extension system.
Staff financed by the different projects have tended to work exclusively on
the activities of projects financing them. Thus within one CADER,
different extension staff may be working on extension and provision of
services for improved maize/legume cultivation, rodent control or coconut
replanting, or distribution of food and rural works. There has been no
coherent salary structure for agricultural staff. Staff salaries, funded
by different donors, may differ between CADERs or among staff of the same
level. The CADER directors have little control over extension workers'
activities, and they frequently do not follow organized work programs. The
projects are also of uneven quality.
2.30      A second result of the project dependent nature of activities has
been that while some activities, such as maize cultivation, have received
substantial attention, others of equal or greater importance in the rural
economy, such as livestock and forestry, have received little or no
sustained technical support. Another serious lack has been training, both
regular in-service training for existing staff, and initial training for
new staff. The CEFADER has not until recently had a coherent develc,pment
strategy or coordinated program of action, and the rural population have
not necessarily received advice on the problems of most concern to them.
The lack of a monitoring unit has also made it difficult to assess the
effect of projects on production or monitor project progress
systematically.
2.31      A further consequence has been that CEFADER/CADER activit.ies are
not budgetized. All activities are treated as discrete 'projects,' with
Government's contribution occurring in the Development Budget (in fact
externally financed through counterpart funds), not in the Recurrent:
Budget. As foreign assistance is withdrawn, there is no clear mechanism
for local costs to be taken over by Government.
G. National Strategy for Agriculture and Project Objectives
2.32      A substantial planning effort has recently been undertaken in the
Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Finance with the assistance of
UNDP, IDA and UNECA; an ambitious investment program, together with
objectives for development of the agricultural sector, has been drawn up.
The primary objectives are to increase food self-sufficiency and reduce
food imports through productivity improvements, while increasing export
crop productivity and undertaking land conservation measures. While using
the CEFADER as the channel for agricultural development, the program
envisages a large number of projects and a very rapid expansion of staff,
with serious implications for the absorptive capacity and recurrent cost
obligations of the country. The continued addition of ad hoc projects, if
the CEFADER does not have the capacity to plan priorities and organize and
train staff, given the constraint of the Government's difficult budgetary



- 12 -
position, would reduce the effectiveness of the aid efforts. It would also
increase the risk that once donor participation is over, the projects do
not continue, and have no lasting impact on production.
2.33      Although the achievements of the CEFADER/CADER have been
considerable in the three years since it was established, much remains to
be done to strengthen the institution if it is to function effectively as
the rural extension network over the long term. The need for
reorganization, for effective use and supervision of staff, for budgetary
management, and for coherent planning and direction by the CEFADER, is
becoming more pressing as its geographical coverage is extended. The major
donors, who cooperate well at field level, are well aware, as is CEFADER
management, of the need to consolidate activities into a clear program of
action, and to ensure that Government has the budgetary capacity to
continue these activities once the aid projects are complete.
2.34      The primary objective of the proposed Project is to strengthen
the organization of the CEFADER/CADER so that it functions more effectively
as the network for rural extension and services but with a staff and scope
of activities within the managerial and financial capacity of Government.
The operational objectives are:
(i) Improved planning, coordination and monitoring of activities in
the rural development sector, including preparation of work
programs, budgets and budgetization of CEFADER/CADER activities.
(ii)  Improved training and supervision for staff at all levels, and
development of multi-disciplinary extension skills for better
transmission of technical themes.
(iii)  Strengthening of CEFADER technical capacity to cover all areas of
importance in the rural economy, in particular animal health and
production, through disease control, improved forage crops,
better genetic selection and drinking water supplies, and
forestry management, soil conservation and farm forestry.
(iv) Consolidation of the geographical coverage of the CEFADER/CADER
network.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
3.01      The Project would provide for:
(i)   the strengthening of the CEFADER's planning and data collection
and monitoring capacity;



- 13 -
(ii)   the strengthening of the CEFADER's administrative and financial
management capability;
(iii)   the reorganization of the CEFADER/CADERs staff work programs
through the implementation of a regular training and supervision
system;
(iv)   the support of operations of the existing CADERs, of the CADERs
under construction through UNCDF financing, and the completion
of two new CADERs in the East of Grande Comore;
(v)   the strengthening of the CEFADER/CADERs' activities in livestock
through services and extension in animal health and animal
production, and
(vi)   the strengthening of CEFADER/CADERs activities in the field of
forestry and environment through farm forestry, soil preservation
and forest management.
3.02      To assist the strengthening of the CEFADER/CADER, the Project
would finance the following:
(i) Technical assistance and consultancies in monitoring/pl2inning and
data collection (2 years); financial management (3 years);
training and extension (2 years); livestock activities (5 years);
and forestry/land conservation (5 years) (US$2.7 million);
(ii)  Overseas training for middle and higher level staff and local
training for newly recruited lower level staff (US$0.6 million);
(iii)  Vehicles and some equipment (US$0.8 million);
(iv)  Minor civil works (US$0.6 million); and
(v) Materials and operating costs including salaries, vehic:Le
maintenance and in-service training (US$1.8 million).
3.03      Costs by expenditure category are indicated in Annex 3, Table 2.
Activities essential to the start-up of the project, including preparation
of pilot work programs, staff redeployment programs, training manuals for
extension staff, budgetary clarification of CEFADER expenditures and land
use mapping would be funded through a PPF (Annex 6). Detailed features of
the project are described below. The costs referred to in paras 3.02 to
3.18 are base costs in March 1984 prices.
B. Detailed Features
1. Project Data Collection, Monitoring and Planning Unit (US$0.7
million).
3.04      The project would finance the establishment of a small planning,
monitoring and data collection unit within the CEFADER/CADER. The unit



- 14 -
would work under the overall direction of the CEFADER director. When
complete, it would consist of a unit director, a technical agent, two data
processors and a secretary, one enumerator per CADER and a supervisor on
Anjouan. The enumerators would live at the CADERs but would travel and
work on teams for special studies. Costs would include: (a) technical
assistance under PPF and for two years for the initial direction of the
unit and on-the-job training, with consultancies in years 3 to 5 (US$0.43
million); short-term overseas training for senior and middle-level staff,
and local training for junlior staff (US$0.05 million); vehicles and
equipment including a mini-computer (US$0.07 million), and salaries and
operating costs (US$22,000 annually). In the first place the unit's
activities would include:
(i) A review of ongoing donor activities, their staffing and
budgetary impact;
(ii) Consolidation of a preliminary annual work program and budget for
all ongoing act:ivities, in collaboration with the technical
divisions. Presentation of a consolidated work program and
budget satisfactory to IDA and to IFAD would be a condition of
project effectiveness (para 6.02 (ii) and (v)).
3.05      Activities woul(I gradually be built up to include:
(i) Annual consolidation of the work program and budget for the
forthcoming fiscal year, for review by IDA and IFAD (see also
para 4.07);
(ii)  Planning of future projects, in coordination with other CEFADER
staff and the Directorate of Planning. Its particular
responsibility would be to assure compatibility of projects with
CEFADER resources and national objectives;
(iii)  Monitoring progress of all CEFADER/CADER projects through field
surveys; assistance to technical departments in the collection
and analysis of data collected as part of their regular project
activities;
(iv) Systematic collection of farm data, which would form the basis
for annual estimates of agricultural production.
2. Assistance in Financial Management and Administration of the CEFADER
(US$0.8 million).
3.06      The administration/financial management unit would be further
strengthened.  The project would finance technical assistance under PPF and
for a period of three years, and consultancies in years 4 and 5 (US$0.5
million); on-the-job training, one additional Comorian accountant and a
secretary.  The project would provide assistance in vehicle replacement and
maintenance to ensure staff mobility (US$0.16 million), and some office
equipment including a mini-computer. The unit would have the following
responsibilities:



- 15 -
(i)   Its initial task, as a condition of project effectiveness, would
be: (a) preparation of statements of expenditure for all
CEFADER/CADER activities; (b) analysis of these activities by
source of financing (including the Government budget and external
donors); (c) classification of staff by souirce of financing, in
collaboration with the training/extension specialist; and, (d)
preparation of a consolidated budget for all CEFADER/CADER
activities (para 6.02 (ii)).
3.07      Through the project life, it would:
(i)  Prepare detailed and consolidated annual budgets of all
CEFADER/CADER activities;
(ii)   Prepare project accounts, with identification of IDA, IFAD and
Government contributions to project costs.
(iii)   Maintain the accounts of the special account, the counterpart
account and the materials account (see paras 3.39, 3.40, 3.41
and 6.02 (iii) and (iv)).
(iv)   Develop simple analysis accounting procedures, in order to
monitor costs related to specific operations and control CADERs
accounting.
3. Training and Supervision System (US$0.7 million).
3.08      The project would establish a system of continuous training and
supervisioni at all levels. Extension staff would gradually be tra:Lned to
become multi-disciplinary. The project would provide technical assistance
for a training/extension specialist under PPF and for a period of two
years, and five months of consultancies (US$0.38 million); initial and
in-service training, office and pedagogical equipment. Operating costs
would consist mostly of travel and per diems and would average US$16,000
annually.
3.09      Activities would include:
(i)  Under PPF, verification of existing staff posts, their
redeployment potential and their training needs, and preparation
of an action plan for staff redeployment and training as a
condition of project effectiveness (para 6.02 (v)).
(ii)  Identification of relevant technical messages in collaboration
with technical staff, and preparation of a preliminary extension
manual, as a condition of project effectiveness (para 6.02 (vi)).
3.10      During the project life, activities would include:
(i)   Preparation of clear work programs comprising regular field
visits and training for extension staff, under the direct
supervision of CADER directors.



16 -
(ii)   Organization of fortnightly training sessions for all CADER
staff, with visits by CEFADER technical specialists. A regular
system of supervision and assistance to extension staff at field
level would be instituted, both by CADER direction and from
CEFADER technical departments.
(iii)   Twice yearly, three day training sessions for all staff at
Mitsamoudou on Anjouan and M'De on Grande Comore.
(iv)   Initial training in two periods of three weeks sandwiched with
field work for new and redeployed extension staff and home
economists. Initial training of two weeks for CADER accountants
would also be organized.
(v)   Preparation of technical and teaching material in coordination
with the technical departments.
4. Assistance to Establishment and Operation of CADERs (US$1.4 million)
3.11      The project would provide for the operation of four new CADERs
recently constructed with UNCDF financing, and ensure the gradual build-up
of their staff to full strength. It would also provide funding for the
existing CADERs not assisted by other donors (Maoueni and Simboussa).
3.12      The project would finance the following:
(i)   Extension of the two 'Pre-Caders' on Eastern Grande Comore to
full CADERS, including construction and equipment of CADER
buildings, (US$ 0.37 million).
(ii)   Technical assistance for two years through U.N. volunteer
agronomists at the four recently established UNCDF financed
CADERs and the East zone CADERs (US$0.14 million).
(iii)   Vehicle replacemtents and vehicle and equipment maintenance in all
CADERs not covered by other donors (US$0.13 million).
(iv)   Increments to the materials accounts for sale of inputs to
farmers (US$0.23 million). Inputs would be sold for cash at
CADER headquarters, and revenue would permit further purchase of
inputs by CEFADER (see also para 3.41).
(v)   Salaries of all incremental staff at these CADERs.  Their
training would also be covered (para 3.06). Annual incremental
staff costs would be US$60,000.
5. Strengthening CEFADER's Livestock Division (US$2.1 million)
3.13      The project would strengthen the CEFADER Livestock Division to
enable it to carry out the normal duties of a small animal
health/production service and implement the program prepared under the IFAD
preparation grant. It would finance: technical assistance for 5 years and



- 17 -
consultancies for initial direction of the department and local training
(US$0.72 million); overseas training for the Comorian director, veterinary
nurses and poultry technicians (Us$0.28 million); vehicles and equipment,
including laboratory equipment, refrigerators, and poultry equipment
(US$0.27 million); civil works, including livestock pens, water points and
butchering slabs (US$0.25 million); purchase of improved stock (US$0.1
million); and increments to the materials account for sale of drugs
(US$60,000) (see para 3.41). Annual operating costs would be US$68,000.
3.14      It would initially be directed by an expatriate veterinarian,
responsible for development of the departments' activities, training,
supervision, and organization of the work program of all staff within the
department. When complete, the division would consist of the following
technical staff: a director with veterinary training; 3 technical agents
to supervise activities on Anjouan, Moheli and Grande Comore; one
veterinary nurse per CADER with an additional nurse and animal health
center at Fomboni on Moheli; three lab technicians; three sanitary control
agents and two poultry advisors. Technical assistance, trials and studies
and training have already been financed under an IFAD preparation grant.
This would be continued under the IDA PPF. Preparation of an initial work
program for the first year of the project life would be a condition of
project effectiveness (para 6.02 (v)).
3.15      The division's activities would include:
(i)   Animal Health and Production
(a)  Provision of animal health services in the field, using the
framework of CADERs.  Veterinary nurses would be responsible
for the administration of specific treatments. They would
be allocated equipment, refrigerators and a stock of drugs
and veterinary products. Most treatments and vaccinations
would be administered on request against payment in cash on
a full cost basis;
(b) Maintenance and expansion of the operations of the
diagnostic laboratory financed under the preparation grant
for systematic monitoring of the animal health situation and
specific diagnoses, permitting progressive refinement of
field veterinary services;
(c)  Introduction of livestock production extension services
through the CADER system with the assistance of the
veterinary nurses. The main themes are described in para
5.04;
(ii)   Poultry Production Services
Completion of infrastructure constructed under previous projects
(para 2.25) to complete a semi-industrial poultry unit with an
expected output of 100 tons of chicken meat, 2.5 million eggs and
1,200 tons of feed annually. The project would also provide



- 18 -
advice to commercial poultry farmers through the provision of
training, equipment and operating costs for two poultry farming
technicians. Poultry feed and supplies would be sold to
semi-industrial producers. Extension advice and inputs would be
provided to small-scale farmers. It was agreed at Negotiations
that disbursement of the IFAD funds for commercial poultry
activities would be contingent on Government providing a
satisfactory operating plan for the commercial poultry sub-sector
(para 6.01 (xvii)).
(iii)   Assistance in  arvketing
Construction of eight slaughtering areas with running water
facilities and 10 butcher stalls, and provision of information
and advice to J.ivestock dealers and butchers;
(iv)   Sanitation regulations
The IFAD grant provides for review of legal documents concerning
sanitation regulations, which should be amended during the
Project. The Project would provide for the training and
operation of three veterinary agents to carry out control at
ports of entry, slaughter areas and markets. However, the
Livestock Division would limit its activities to technical
recommendations and would not be responsible for legal
interventions.
b. Strengthening Forestry, Farm Forestry and Land Conservation Activities
(US$1.3 million).
3.16      The project would reinforce the Forestry/Land Conservation
Division of the CEFADER/CADERs in order to develop farm forestry and land
conservation programs, and ensure better management of existing forests.
3.17      Items to be financed would include:  aerial photography,
(US$0.2 million); materia:Ls and vehicle hire for forestry development plans
and tree planting in cultiLvated and uncultivated areas (US$70,000);
overseas training and technical assistance for 5 years and training
(US$0.77 million); and vehicles and equipment (US$49,000). Operating costs
would average US$39,000 atnually. When fully established, the Division
would comprise: the director, three technicians (responsible for the
Maoueni, La Grille and Kartala forests), one draftsman, one aerial
photography specialist and one secretary, At CADER level, there would be
six tree planting agents for uncultivated areas, 6 for cultivated areas and
11 nursery agents. Preparation of an action plan for the first year's work
would be a condition of pzoject effectiveness (para 6.02 (v)).
3.18      The Division would initially be directed by an expatriate
technical assistant. Its activities would include:



- 19 -
Land use mapping
(i) Aerial photography, photo-interpretation and establishment
of the legend for land use mapping on a scale of 1:25,000,
to be prepared under the technical assistance contract
financed under PPF.
(ii) Tree planting/Land conservation: uncultivated lands
Tree planting of 750 ha with the assistance of WFP rations
on Grande Comore and Moheli on abandoned agricultural land
and grass and brushlands; total potential area would be
16,000 ha. The techniques are described in para 5.02. The
project would select sites, train agents responsible for
supervision of program execution, and contribute to the
production of seedlings in the CADERs through the provision
of polyethylene bags, imported seed, and plant protection.
(iii) Farm forestry/Soil conservation: cultivated lands
Tree planting with soil conservation measures on 1000 ha of
cultivated land over the three islands. The basic
techniques are described in para 5.02. Division staff would
provide assistance in site selection (with preference given
to small watersheds), variety selection and monitoring of
results. Plant material would be produced in village
nurseries; the project would provide seed, bags, plant
protection and transport. It would train technical agents
to supervise these activities through the CADERs.
(iv) Trials and Studies
These would be an essential part of the program. They are
described in para 5.07.
(v) Management of the Maoueni, La Grille and Kartala Forests
A development plan for the Maoueni eucalyptus forest (500
ha), including a detailed wood inventory, market study,
proposals for sawing techniques and track improvements and a
work program. A contract would be entered into witWh a
private saw mill for exploitation. Two Comorian technicians
would be assisted by the technical assistance in drawing up
these plans. Development plans would be drawn up for the
Kartala and La Grille forests. Unit staff would also be
responsible for the collection of stumpage fees from state
and, eventually, private forests. Once management plans are
implemented, these fees could yield approximately CFAF 75
million per year.



- 20 -
(vi)  Plant Production
Maintenance of village nurseries with CADER assistance
through technical agents, for treeplanting in cultivated
areas. CADERs would produce seedlings for non-cultivated
areas and for research trials. One nursery maintenance
worker would be necessary for each CADER. The Project would
train them and provide the necessary materials.
(vii)  Revision of Forest Legislation
Revision of legislation concerning use of State forest
lands, and the exploitation rights over the private forest,
over which there is currently no control.
C, Special Features
3.19      A key feature of the proposed Project would be strengthening and
reorganization of the activities of existing staff on the one hand, and
gradual expansion of the new CADERs to their full staff strength on the
other. Action programs for staff in existing CADERs would include the full
range of extension messages from the first year, and trials, studies and
farmer feedback should assist the development of improved techniques over
the early years of the Project. Programs for staff in the new CADERs would
emphasize a more limited range of messages, gradually expanding in scope as
staff acquire experience. A project implementation schedule is indicated
in Annexes 7A and 7B.
3.20      It may be noted t'hat the Project does not provide for technical
assistance in agronomy, since there are trained agronomists in the Comoros,
and furthermore, technical assistance is already provided under the UNDP
and EDF projects. However, appropriate technical packages and a work
program for agronomy would also be prepared as a condition of project
effectiveness (para 6.02 (v)), and the agronomy division would participate
fully in the training and extension program.
3.21      The training program for new staff is outlined in Annex 4,
Appendix 2. Government agreed at Negotiations to prepare for discussion by
December 31, 1984 improved schemes to ensure that Comorians who do not
return home after undertaking project-financed training reimburse the costs
of this training (para 6.01 (xvi)). As indicated in para 3.08, recruitment
of incremental staff would be kept to a minimum by redeployment of existing
staff. Assurances were obtained from Government at Negotiations that
adequately qualified Comorian staff are available to fill the senior CADER
posts. Appointments to senior CEFADER posts should be discussed with and
acceptable to IDA. This too was agreed to at Negotiations (para 6.01
(xii)).
3.22      Another feature of the Project is the extent of technical
assistance, which comprises 40% of project costs. Expert technical
assistance totals 272 man-months. Its costs are estimated at US$9,800 per



- 21 -
man-month for long-term technical assistance (this forms the majority) and
US$15,000 per man-month for short-term consultants. The project also
provides for 168 months of technical assistance in the CADERs, through the
UN volunteer scheme, at US$950 per man-month. Details are provided in
Annex 4, Appendix 1. Training of Comorian staff would form a key aspect of
the work. Of particular note is the fact that if necessary, technical
assistance would have executive direction over technical units while
Comorian staff are being trained. This principle was agreed to at
Negotiations (para 6.01 (xiii)). Terms of reference for the technical
assistance are provided in Annex 4, Appendix 1. These were discussedi with
and agreed to by Government at Negotiations (para 6.01 (xiii)).
D. Project Costs
(i) Total Costs
3.23      Total project costs are estimated to be US$9.3 million, as
indicated in Table 1. These costs exclude taxes and duties, since all
goods imported by the CEFADER are tax exempt, but they include physical and
price contingencies (see also Annex 3, Table 3). Sixty three percent of
costs would be foreign exchange. Investment costs are estimated at
US$6.75 million, or 75% of total. An advance under PPF has been granted of
US$475,000 (Annex 6).
(ii) Operating Costs
3.24      Project operating costs comprise salaries, vehicle operation and
maintenance, materials, in-service training, building and equipment
maintenance. They are estimated at CFAF 109 million annually in March 1984
prices (US$0.3 million). It should be noted that the estimates include
operating costs of vehicles and maintenance of buildings previously
financed by other donors and replaced under the project, and costs of staff
until recently financed by other donors, who would be transferred to the
CEFADER/CADER system. The annual incremental impact of the project on the
Government budget is estimated to be CFAF 70 million, substantially less
than the project costs of CFAF 109 million (see Annex 3, Table 4).
Government would contribute to operating costs on a gradually increasing
basis as indicated in Table 2. Thus while in year one they would
contribute only 20% of operating costs, by year 5 this would have increased
to 75%. This system has worked quite well for the IDA Coconut project
(Cr. 1035-COM), and Government agreed at Negotiations to finance project
operating costs according to this schedule (para 6.01 (i)).



22 -
COMOROS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
TatbI 1
-7TFAt lillion)            (US$ '000)
----------------------- ----------------------- Z Foreign  X Total
Local  FGreign Total    Local Foreisn Total   Exchange  Base Costs
A. DATA COLLECTION, MONITORING AND PLANNING UNIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                 36.0   137.5   173.5    99.0   377.7   476.6        79.2         6.8
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                4.0    21.5    25.4    10.9    59.0    69.9        84.3         1.0
TRAINING                                                              5.3    12.5    17.9    14.6    34.5    49.1        70.2         0.7
UNIT OPERATING COSTS                                                 29.2     5.5    34.7    80.3    15.1    95.4        15.9         1,4
Sub-rotal DATA COLLECTION, MONITORING AND PLANNING UNIT                 74.5   177.0   251.5   204.8   486.2   691,0        70.4         9.9
B. ASSISTANCE CEFADER ADMINISTRATION
INVESTMENT COSTS                                                    43.7   203.4   247.1   120.0   558.7   678.7         82.3        9.7
OPERATING COSTS                                                      41.6       -    41.6   114.4        -   114.4          -         1.6
Sub-Total ASSISTANCE CEFADER ADMINISTRATION                             85.3   203.4   2B8.7   234.4   558.7   793,1        70.4        11.4
C. TRAINING t SUPERVISION SYSTEM
INITIAL TRAINING                                                      4.3       -     4.3    11.8        -    11.          -        0.2
STRENGTHING HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION                                 28.1   122.9   151.0    77.2   337.7   414.9        81.4        5.9
FORTNIGHTLY TRAINING                                                 17.1     0.8    17.9    46.9      2.3    49.1        4.6        0.7
TWICE YEARLY INSERVICE TRAINING                                      13.8       -    13.8    37.9        -    37.9          -        0.5
INSERVICE TRAINING SENIOR STAFF                                       7.7       -     7.7    21.1        -    21.1          -        0.3
TECHNICAL FOLLOW-UP                                                  24.0     0.5    24.5    65.9      1.3    67.2        1.9         1.0
OTHER COSTS                                                           4.9    23.7    28.6    13.4    65.2    78.6        B2.9         1.1
Sub-Total TRAINING I SUPERVISION SYSTEM                                 99.8  147.9   247.8   274.3   406.4   680.7         59.7         9.7
D. ASSISTANCE CADERS OPERATION
EAST ZONE CADERS                                                     81.7    52.9   134.5   224.4   145.3   369.6        39.3         5.3
VEHICLE REPLACEMENT: ALL CADERS                                       4.6    44.1    48.8    12.7   121.2   133.9        90.5         1.9
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                 22.7    28.0    50.7    62.3    76.9   139.3        55.3         2.0
STAFF COSTS                                                          70.3       -    70.3   193.2        -   193.2          -         2.8
OTHER OPERATING COSTS                                                96.7   122.8   219.6   265.7   337.5   603.2        55.9         8.6
Sub-Total ASSISTANCE CADERS OPERATION                                  276.0   247.8   523.9   758.3   680.9 19439.2        47.3        20.6
E. LIVESTOCK ACTIVITIES
STRENGTHENING CEFADER                                                91.8   265.0   356.8'  252.2   728.0   980.2        74.3        14.0
TRAINING                                                              0.3   136.6   137.0      0.9   375.4   376.3       99.8        5.4
STRENGTHENING CADERS                                                 80.8    87.3   168.1   221.9   239.8   461.7        51.9         6.6
SLAUGHTER IMPROVEMENT                                                21.6     5,6    27.2    59.4    15.4    74.8        20.5         1.1
POULTRY DEVELOPMENT                                                  33.7    49.1    82.8    92.7   134.8   227.4        59.3        3.3
Sub-Total LIVESTOCK ACTIVITIES                                         228.2   543.6   771.8   627.0 1.493.3 2,120.4        70.4       30.3
F. FORESTRY/LAND CONSERVATION ACTIVITIES
INVENTORY (CEFADER)                                                   3.5    73.1    76.6      9.7   200.8   210.5       95.4        3.O
FORESTRY (CEFADER)                                                   12.8     0.8    13.5    35.1      2.1    37.2        5.6        05
TREE PLANTING: UNCULTIVATED ACTIVITIES                               19.0    4.1    23.0    52.1    11.1    63.2         17.6        0.9
SOIL CONSERVATION/TREE PLANTING' CULTIVATED AREAS (CADERS)           15.5     2.8    18.3    42.5      7.8    50.3       15.4        0.7
PLANT MATERIAL PRODUCTION (CADERS)                                    9.9    11.8    21.7    27.2    32.4    59.6        54.3        0.9
STRENGTHENING CEFADER                                                62.6   243.6   306.3   172.0   669.3   841.4        79.6        12.0
Sub-Total FORESTRY/LAND CONSERVATION ACTIVITIES                        123.3   336.1   459.4   338.7   923.5 1,262.2        73.2        ;8.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                     887.2 1,655.9 2,543.1 2,437.5 4,549.1 6,986.5        65.1       100.0
Phgsical Contingencies                                                 88.7   165.6   254.3   243.7   454.9   698.7        65.1        10.0
Price Contingencies                                                   267.1   322.0   589.0   733.7   884.5 1,618.2        54.7       23.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    1,243.0 2,143.4 3,386.4 3,414.9 5888.5 9,303.4        63.3       133.2
December 22, 1983  13:24



- 23 -
Table 2
Project Operating Costs: Government Contribution
(MCFAF: current prices)
PYI     PY2      PY3      PY4     PY5       Total
Recurrent Costs              134      151     183      222      240        929
Recurrent Costs
Minus Materials             91      113     146      162     186         697
Govt. Contributions
as:
% of recurrent costs
minus materials             20       25      40       60       75         49
Govt. Contribution            18       28      58       97      139        340
(iii)  Rural Services Operating Costs and Budgetary Implications
3.25      The intention through the project is both to improve budgetary
management in the agricultural sector, and gradually to increase the
budgetary allocation to agriculture in cooperation with donor agencies.
Government has an ambitious public investment program for agriculture. Its
implications for recurrent costs have not been quantified, but include
recruitment of 160 senior and 640 junior staff. The incremental costs of
these staff alone, even supposing they could be recruited, would be! at
least CFAF 360 million,2! and the overall incremental burden on the! budget
at least double this. Total operating costs of the CEFADER/CADER,
including the existing and proposed programs, if strengthened along the
lines recommended in paras 3.01 to 3.18, are tentatively estimated at CFAF
380 million per year in March 1984 prices (Table 3). If the actions
proposed are successfully carried out, little further investment would be
necessary in the Rural Services Network over the next 3 to 4 years., The
project should thus achieve the same objectives as those of the Public
Investment Program at substantial local currency savings.
2/   Assuming a senior-level staff were paid CFAF 90,000/month and a
junior-level staff CFAF 25,000/month per year.



- 24 -
Table 3
Estimated CEFADER/CADER Annual Operating Costs at Full Development
(CFAF Million) (March 1984 prices)
CEFADER                                                  55
11 CADERs                                                99
Livestock Department                                     22
Forestry/Land Conservation Department                    14
Monitoring/Planning Department                            8
Coconut Activities                                       15
Research/Development Activities                          11
Ministry                                                 55
Vehicle Replacement                                      45
Training/Supervision System                              18
342
Miscellaneous and physical contingencies                 38
380
Source: CEFADER and Mission estimates: Operating costs for livestock,
forestry/soil conservation, training and supervision, and
monitoring and planning, calculated by staff appraisal mission.
Costs of CEFADER, CADERs and Ministry provided by Government.
Costs of vehicle replacement based on replacing 37 cars every four
years, 44 motorbikes every two years, and 5 lorries every 5 years.
Coconut activities and research and development costs are based on
the mission's estimates, and must be treated as very rough
estimates. Miscel]laneous would include overseas fellowships,
expand extension in vanilla and cloves, etc.
3.26      Thus Rural Services operating costs as estimated at CFAF 380
million annually represent: only 7% of the Government recurrent budget for
1983 of CFAF 4.7 billion, but are above the total budget allocation to
agriculture for 1983, including development and recurrent budgets, of CFAF
275 million. Since most cf the present operating costs are carried outside
the recurrent budget through aid projects, the recurrent budget is
presently only CFAF 55 million. It is important that the operating costs
of all CEFADER operations are gradually taken over by Government and
incorporated in the recurrent budget. A key task of the Accounting/
Financial Management expert appointed under PPF would be detailed
calculation of these costs and their classification by source of
financing. Preparation of a consolidated statement of expenditure and
revenues for all CEFADER/CADER activities would be a condition of project
effectiveness (para 6.02 (ii)).



- 25 -
3.27      The next steps would be inclusion of the CEFADER/CADER recurrent
costs in the Government recurrent budget, and a gradually increasing
contribution to these costs by Government. It is difficult to predict,
through the project life and beyond, the proportion of recurrent costs
which would continue to be borne by donors. However, Government has made
the commitment to increase the proportion of its budget which is devoted to
agriculture by 1% per year. Assuming that recurrent revenues remain
constant at CFAF 4.7 billion (a pessimistic assumption), this would imply a
gradual increase in the recurrent budget allocation from CFAF 55 million in
1984 to CFAF 330 million in 1989, or 85% of the Rural Services operating
costs (see Annex 3, Table 5). Together with some continued recurrent cost
financing for the donors, this is adequate to close the gap. The precise
amounts to be contributed by Government and donors would be determined
annually through the preparation of the CEFADER/CADER operating budget and
the Government budget, and its review by donors.
3.28      Government agreed at Negotiations to (a) preparation of the
CEFADER/CADER budget for review by IDA and IFAD at least two months before
the beginning of each fiscal year (para 6.01 (ii); (b) for the 1987 budget
at the latest, full integration of CEFADER/CADER recurrent costs into the
Government recurrent budget, including those presently financed outside the
budget through external aid projects (para 6.01 (iii)); (c) a gradual
increase in Government contribution to CEFADER/CADER operating costs, on a
schedule outlined at Negotiations and to be agreed upon annually through
the project period (para 6.01 (iii)); (d) an annual meeting of donors with
Government at field level to review the Annual Work Program and the budget,
and the relative contributions of Government and donors (see also para 4.07
and 6.01 (viii)).  Government also agreed to incorporation of all project
related incremental costs in the recurrent budget (para 6.01 (i)).
3.29      As described in paras 2.32 and 3.15, stumpage fees, which have
not previously been collected, would be collected as the Management Plans
for the State Forests of Maoueni, La Grille and the Kartala are prepared
and implemented. It is estimated that these could yield approximately CFAF
75 million per year from the fourth year of the project. If earmarked for
the CEFADER/CADER network, these fees could go some way towards meeting the
Rural Services' Operating Costs. Assurances were obtained from Government
at Negotiations that as stumpage fees are collected they would help finance
forestry and other CEFADER/CADER activities (para 6.01 (vi)).
E. Financing Plan
3.30      Project costs would be financed in the amounts and proportions
indicated in Table 4.



- 26 -
Table 4
Financing Plan
(US$ 1000)
Local Currency   Foreign    Total   % of Project
Costs         Exchange               Costs
IDA
Training & Tech. Asst.           503          1,753      2,255
Vehicles, Lvst. & Equip.          82            521        603
Civil Works                      370            104        475
PPF                               68            451        519
Recurrent Costs:
Materials                       96            362        458
Recurrent Costs:
Other                          478            253        731
Total                        1,597          3,444      5,041        54
IFAD
Training & Tech. Asst.           331          1,784      2,114
Vehicles, Lvst. & Equip.          43            382        425
Civil Works                      264             95        359
PPF                                            -          -
Recurrent Costs:
Materials                       92            121        213
Recurrent Costs:
Other                          154             62        216
Total                          884          2,444      3,328        36
Government
Recurrent Costs:
Materials
Recurrent Costs:
Other                          934           -           934
Total                          934           -           934        10
GRAND TOTAL                    3,415          5,888      9,303       100
3.31      The IDA credit would finance, jointly with GOC, the following
components:  training and supervision; forestry/land conservation;
assistance in financial management to the CEFADER; and assistance to the
CADERs. The IFAD credit would finance the livestock and data
collection/monitoring/planning components. The proposed IDA and IFAD
credits would be on standard terms to GOC. GOC would finance local costs
in a gradually increasing proportion as laid otut in Table 2.



- 27 -
F. Procurement and Disbursement
3.32      The main contracts would be for vehicles and civil works.  It is
proposed that the vehicles to be purchased be grouped year by year and put
out to ICB. However, there are currently only three or four makes of
vehicles available in Comoros and able to be maintained, and market
potential is small. Considerable weight in the tender documents must
therefore be given to adequate guarantees of service and spare parts.
3.33      The civil works contracts would consist of small-scale, scattered
construction of buildings. They would thus be unlikely to appeal to
foreign contractors. There are a number of adequately established local
construction firms in the Comoros, and local competitive bidding
procedures, based on the French Code des Marches Publics, do exist. It is
proposed that the design and building contracts for the CADER headquarters,
the livestock pens, slaughter area and water points, be grouped for LCB.
Foreign firms would also be considered for supervision of works. Materials
and specialized equipment (improved livestock, laboratory and office
equipment, etc.) would be packaged through limited international tendering
or direct purchase where necessary.
Table 5
Proposed Procurement Method
(US$ '000)
Procurement Method
Project Element            ICB    LCB    Other    NA    Total    Foreiign
Training & Tech. Asst.                    3,607    761   4,368        83
Vehicles, Lvst. & Equip.  723                305           1,028      89
Civil Works                        835                      835       21
PPF                                          520             520      85
Total                                                6,751       75
Operating Costs
Materials                                    673             673      72
Salaries, in-service
training, O&M                                   1,879   1,879       16
Total                                                 2,552       30
Grand Total                                          9,303       63



- 28 -
3.34      Technical assistance consists of long-term contracts for line
positions and short-term consultancies for specialized areas. Contracts
with specialized bodies would assure this combination. Technical
assistance would be selected by Government, approved by IDA and employed on
terms satisfactory to the Association. Draft tender documents for all
contracts equal to or exceeding US$50,000 would be submitted to IDA for
approval before invitations to bid are issued and full information on
proposed contracts valued at US$10,000 to US$50,000 would be submitted to
IDA for comment prior to award of the contract. Assurances were obtained
at Negotiations that procurement would follow the above procedures (para
6.01 (xi)).
3.35      The IDA credit of US$5 million and the IFAD loan of US$3.3
million would be disbursed over 6 years. Full documentation would be
required for all civil works expenditures, and for other investment
expenditures costing more than $10,000. Disbursements would be as
indicated in Table 6. The detailed disbursement schedule is indicated in
Annex 2. Since a disbursement profile for the Comoros does not exist,
disbursements for the agricultural sector in East Africa have been taken as
the point of comparison. These average 8 years. Disbursements are assumed
to be more rapid under the proposed project for the following reasons: (a)
US$475,000 have been granted under PPF; (b) 40% of project costs are for
technical assistance, and three of the five major posts are already filled;
(c) equipment to be procured consists mostly of vehicles, and there have
been few problems purchasing these under other projects; (d) the major LCB
civil works contract is planned for the end of year 2, which should give
ample time for the preparation of bid documents; and (e) staff to be
recruited comprise mostly high school graduates who would be trained under
the project; these are in ample supply in the Comoros. Project completion
is expected by September 30, 1989 and closing date by June 30, 1990.
G. Status of Engineering
3.36      Designs have been prepared for the CADERs, but they must be
adapted to be site-specific, and reduced in size from approximately 900 m2
to approximately 600 m2 by reducing the quantity of staff housing, a
proposed meeting room for each CADER and a workshop. The new design work
would be carried out by the firm contracted to supervise construction. No
designs have been prepared for slaughtering areas or animal enclosures, but
these would be very simple and could be prepared by the Livestock Division
Director. Designs exist for water catchment basins.
H. Accounts and Audit
3.37      The administration/financial management division, headed
initially by the recruited international accountant under Technical
Assistance, would be responsible for budgeting and accounting for all
project expenditures. Proper budgeting, cost control, and full scale
audits would be critical during project implementation. Assurances were
obtained from Government at Negotiations that it would:



- 29 -
Table 6
Disbursements
(US$ '000)
IDA     IFAD
(1)  Civil Works    (a)         440     -        100% of total expenditures
(b)         -     320
(2) Equipment,
vehicles, live-
stock, drugs &
materials       (a)      1,000      -
(b)         -     530
(3) Consultants'
services &
training        (a)      2,040     -
(b)         -   1,800
(4)  Operating costs                             IDA                IFAD
excluding                                   80% of IDA      80% of IFAD
materials       (a)        730   -          disbursements  disbursements
(b)         -    220        up to           up to
US$140,000;    US$50,000;
75% up to      75% uip to
US$320,000;    US$110,000;
60% up to      60% up to
US$500,000;    US$170,000
40% up to      40% up to
US$640,000;    US$210,000;
25% up to      25% iup to
US$730,000     US$220,000
(5)  Commercial                 -       210
(6)  PPF                       475       -
(7) Initial deposit
in Special
Account         (a)       140       -
(b)        -       90
(8)  Unallocated    (a)        175       -
(b)        -      160
Total        5,000   3,330
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(a)   cause project management to prepare annual work programs and
budgets for all CEFADER activities, and submit them to IDA for
approval at least two months before the fiscal year begins.
(b)   prepare annually, separate Project accounts relating to project
expenditures (para 6.01 (iv)).
(c)   cause CEFADER and CADERs accounts to be audited at least: once a
year by persons or firms with experience, qualifications and
terms of reference acceptable to IDA and IFAD; the results of



- 30 -
these audits would be communicated to IDA and IFAD at the latest
three months after the end of each fiscal year (para 6.01 (iv)).
3.38      CEFADER/CADER accounts have never been audited.  Provision for an
audit has been made under PPF. The audit would comprise an audit of the
Receipts and Expenditure Statement for all CEFADER/CADER activities for the
past three years, since balance sheet information for the CEFADER would not
be available. Completion of the audit would be a condition of Project
Effectiveness (para 6.02 Ci)).
Revolving Funds: Special Account, Counterpart Account, Materials Account
3.39      In order to assiLst Government to pre-finance expenditures to be
reimbursed from the credit:, a revolving fund, to be known as the Special
Account, would be established in an Institution acceptable to IDA and IFAD
to cover project expenditures eligible for reimbursement, other than those
for which IDA and IFAD would reimburse directly. The fund would be
established with a deposit of the equivalent of approximately four months'
local expenditures. IDA would deposit US$140,000 in the fund and IFAD
would deposit US$90,000. IDA and IFAD would replenish the fund quarterly,
upon receipt of a withdrawal request from Government. In order to assure
separation of IDA and IFAD funds, the Special Account would consist of two
separate sub-accounts which would be separately audited. Government would
contribute its share of project costs through a separate revolving fund, to
be known as the Counterpart Account, to be opened in an Institution
satisfactory to the Association. Government would also replenish its share
of the fund quarterly, based on the financing plan outlined in Table 2.
3.40      Establishment of the funds along these principles was agreed to
at Negotiations. It was also agreed that an initial deposit of US$20,000
by Government (equivalent to approximately 4 months of Government
contributions for the first year of the project) would be a condition of
project effectiveness (para 6.02 (iii)). Documentation required for
disbursement would be certified statements of expenditure for all operating
costs, and for technical assistance, vehicles, livestock and equipment
costing less than $10,000, A condition of replenishment would be evidence
that Government has met its share of local expenditures, which would
increase through the project life.
3.41      A separate materials account for revenues from the sale of inputs
and materials to farmers through the CADERs would also be established in a
Commercial Bank, and used to repurchase materials. The level of this
account should not fall below US$25,000. All sales would be on a cash
basis. Accounts of the funds would be prepared quarterly and open to
review by IDA. Prices at which materials would be sold should reflect
costs plus an adequate margin. Agreement on sale of materials according to
these principles was secured at Negotiations (para 6.01 (v)). Opening of a
materials account in an Institution acceptable to IDA and IFAD would be a
condition of project effectiveness (para 6.02 (iv)).



- 31 -
I. Environmental Impact
3.42      The environmental impact of the project would be positive.  Tree
planting on uncultivated land and tree planting and soil conservation on
cultivated land would restore vegetative cover and soil fertility.
Improved forestry management should help to protect existing forest lands.
The project does not envisage provision of a significant quantity of any
chemicals except proven drugs for prophylaxis and treatment of animals.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. CEFADER Mnement
4.01      Organization of the different technical divisions has been
described in Chapter III. The CEFADER director would have overall
responsibility for project implementation, as for all other activities of
the CEFADER/CADER network. Technical directors, the monitoring and
planning, administrative and financial, and training and supervision units,
would have responsibility in their particular areas, and would report to
him. Technical directors would have responsibility for development of
applied research and links with the research/development unit in their
fields, development of technical themes, in-service training of their
specialized staff in the CEFADER and CADERs, supervision of extension and
services in their fields, and provision of specialized extension messages.
The monitoring and planning unit would monitor project execution, recommend
on the reorientation of priorities and compile annual work programs and
budgets. The training and supervision unit would adapt technical themes
into easily understandable technical messages and organize work schedules
around these themes for all project staff. The administrative/financial
unit would monitor costs in each activity field and prepare consolidated
budgets. The link between the technical, monitoring and planning, and
training and supervision units would be the key to successful project
organization. Annex 1, Chart 2 provides a graphic illustration of a
proposed revised organization chart for the CEFADER, and the links between
the different divisions. Agreement on the proposed new organization was
reached at Negotiations (para 6.01 (xiv)).
B. CADER Management
4.02      CADER staff would have two major responsibilities:
(a)   supply of services, i.e. provision of inputs, technical services
and advice on subjects already understood by farmers, and for
which demand is expressed; and
(b)   extension to explain and demonstrate the use of techniques or
inputs which would respond to farmers' needs.



- 32 -
Inputs would initially be sold directly by CADER accountants and veterinary
nurses, with CADER accountants responsible for book-keeping. This is
because the quantities sold would initially be too small to justify a
separate sales service. At project mid-term review, the possibility of
establishing a separate sales service, or of delegating sales to the
private sector, would be reviewed.
4.03      At CADER level, CADER directors, who would report directly to the
CEFADER director, would be responsible for daily supervision of and
assistance to all staff in the CADERs, and organization of the work
programs of extension staff. CADER accountants would be responsible for
record keeping of all CADER financial transactions, including sale of
inputs, revenue from which would be transferred to the account held by the
CEFADER in a commercial bank. Specialists (veterinary nurses, home
economists, land conservation agents, rodent control specialists) would
provide technical advice to general agricultural extension agents but would
also work directly with farmers.  Thus land conservation agents would
organize land terracing and planting programs, and provide assistance with
village nurseries, rodent control specialists would sell and provide advice
on rodenticides and veterinary nurses would diagnose animal diseases,
administer and sell drugs and services. All CADER staff would be in
frequent contact with CEFADER technical staff during training sessions and
for supervision.
4,04      Extension staff would be responsible for carrying out a regular
program of field visits for transmission of relevant seasonal technical
messages. They would also work through village 'animators' (at present
paid in WFP rations) or lead farmers with village groups to encourage
adoption of improved techniques. Home economists would carry out a
separate program of visits to women, under the day-to-day supervision of
the CADER directors and thle technical supervision of the CEFADER
specialist. Their messages which have already been quite well defined,
include nutrition, hygiene, poultry rearing, vegetable growing and
agriculture. Enumerators would work under the technical supervision of
the island-level supervisor for Anjouan and Moheli and the director at the
CEFADER for Grande Comore.
4.05      A feature of all work at CADER level would be daily contact with
farmers on the one hand and frequent contact with CEFADER specialists on
the other. Monitoring and careful record keeping of activities and inputs
sold by all staff would be essential. Details would be worked out by
CEFADER technical directors, with the assistance of the data
collection/monitoring/planning unit as necessary; they would include
activity reports, inventorLes of materials sold, records of field visits
and problems encountered, records of expenditure etc.  It was agreed at
Negotiations that all documentation would be made available to IDA and IFAD
staff upon request (para 6,01 (ix)).
4.06      An important step in the integration of CEFADER/CADER staff would
be harmonization of salary structures. At Negotiations, Government agreed
to prepare a harmonized salary structure for all staff and to implement it
by April 30, 1986 (para 6.01 (xv)).



- 33 -
C. Monitoring, Evaluation and Work Programs
4.07      The data collection/monitoring and evaluation unit would have
overall responsibility for data collection, monitoring of field activities,
evaluation and submission of work programs. Short progress reports
would be prepared every four months (approximately four pages per
division). Work programs, budgets and detailed progress reviews would also
be submitted annually for IDA and IFAD review, at least two months before
the end of each fiscal year. These should include a record of activities,
problems encountered and expenditures for the previous year, and activities
to be carried out and their justifications, targets to be met, costs and
identification of sources and uses of funds for the following year. These
work programs would be subject to annual review in the field during
supervision missions, and this was agreed to at Negotiations (para 6.01
(viii)). The development and testing of action programs would be an
important part of preparation activities and the first year's work.
Testing and pilot activities are already taking place in the livestock
sub-sector. Submission to IDA and IFAD of detailed pilot action programs,
for livestock, farm forestry, agronomy, data collection/monitoring, and for
implementation of the program of continuous training, would be conditions
of effectiveness (para 6.02 (v)). Government would also prepare a Project
Completion Report no more than 6 months after the completion of the
project, and this was agreed to at Negotiations (para 6.01 (ix)).
D. Project Mid-Term Review
4.08      A project mid-term review would be carried out by Government,
probably during project Year 3 with the assistance of IDA and IFAD.
Government agreed to this during Negotiations (para 6.01 (x)). Its general
aim would be to assess the institutional, managerial and technical
performance of the Project, and to identify new possible investment needs,
including the composition of a possible second-phase project. In
particular, it would review progress on all project components including:
(i) the integration under CEFADER management and programming of the
different donor financed projects, and establishment of harmonized. work
programs for all staff; (ii) the adequacy of data collection and monitoring
systems; (iii) the adequacy of CEFADER/CADER accounting procedures; (iv)
the budgetization of CEFADER/CADER costs, and performance of Government in
meeting its contributions; (v) the training and supervision system; (vi)
validity of technical messages, development of improved technical themes
and progress of the FAC research project; (vii) physical progress.
including drugs and inputs sold, farmers reached, forage grasses planted,
land terraced or planted with anti-erosive strips, trees planted and their
survival rate, civil works completed, vehicles purchased, farmer response
and productivity improvements, construction and use of water points,
slaughtering areas and imported breeding stock etc; (viii) progress with
the sawmill at Maoueni and planned wood output; (ix) cost-effectiveness of
different activities; (x) progress with local and overseas training and
progress towards 'Comorianization' of CEFADER/CADER staff; (xi)
disbursements to date; (xii) adequacy of procurement arrangements; and
(xiii) the adequacy of the price at which inputs are sold.



- 34 -
4.09      Based on such a review, project components and allocations of
funds would possibly be modified. The review would also identify, if
necessary, a follow-up project, and arrangements would be made for its
preparation.
V. PRODUCTION AND PROJECT BENEFITS
A. Technical Packages
5.01      There has been little sustained research in the Comoros and valid
technical themes for farmers are limited at present. Technical packages
would be developed as the rural services network is strengthened (see also
para 5.06). Nevertheless, given the extreme simplicity of present methods,
there are a number of themes currently valid which if effectively used,
could have a marked impact on production.
5.02      For land conservation and farm forestry, themes include:
(i) on stoney soils, destoning of fields and establishment of dry
stone contour walls, and on less stoney soils anti-erosion
ridges with vetiver strips, and encouragement of row cropping;
(ii)  on abandoned lands and grasslands, tree planting and maintenance
with leguminous bushes and trees (leucena, glyricidia,
pterocarpus, gleditsia) to produce forage crops and firewood and,
in the longer run, restore soil fertility; on brushlands,
eucalyptus (E. robusta and E. camaldulensis) would augment forest
production and increase vegetative cover. On recent volcanic
soils, glyricidia cuttings should produce wood and encourage the
formation of cultivable soil.
(iii)  on cultivated land, appropriate planting of trees, andmaintenance
of village nurseries. Tree varieties would depend on soil
characteristics and farmers' wishes. They would include fruit
trees (lemon, orange, avocado, cashew, mandarine, breadfruit,
jackfruits); forage trees (sandragon, pterocarpus, leucena,
saman, Persian lilac); and forest trees (filao, albizzia) for
enclosures for quality wood.
5.03      For agriculture, the themes include:
(i) replacement of digging sticks with improved tools such as hoes,
tridents, rakes;
(ii)  appropriate planting densities; correct weeding, timely land
preparation;
(iii) promotion of maize as a lead crop in association with legumes and
in rotation with sweet potatoes;



- 35 -
(iv) use of selected seed and of improved varieties where these are
available (eg. 'Revolution' maize in the uplands) Sinon Fotsy for
sweet potatoes developed by IRAT in Madagascar; variety N 58 75
for cowpeas; B66-167 for Jerusalem peas; BUNCH for groundnuts;
and H43 and H53 for cassava), and introduction of new varieties
as they become available through the FAC research program;
(v) as regards export crops; for clove trees, better supervision of
site selection, observance of densities, tending of young trees,
and better picking and drying methods; for ylang-ylang, gradual
rehabilitation of plantations through maintenance and replanting,
and encouragement where appropriate of interplanting with
basilic; for vanilla, improvement in vine maintenance, including
staking, pruning, correct pollination and timely harvesting;
(vi) horticulture, in particular promotion of vegetables for
consumption by Europeans near Moroni and Mitsamoudou, and for the
Comorian market elsewhere (tomatoes, onions, peppers and
spinach). Promotion of wing beans should also be considered.
5.04      For livestock, the themes include:
(a) Animal Health
(i)   vaccinations against blackleg in Grande Comore;
(ii)   regular use of accaricides on cattle and small ruminants in
all three islands and appropriate treatments against
tick-borne diseases;
(iii)   regular treatments against internal parasites, particularly
calf ascaridiosis, mainly in Anjouan and Moheli;
(iv)   simple clinical work on demand.  This would include
treatments of wounds, of simple obstetrical problems and of
common infectious diseases like pneumonia, arthritis, skin
diseases, foot rot etc; and
(v)   vaccinations of poultry against newcastle disease and fowl
pox.
(b) Animal Production
(vi)   improvement of livestock feeding through development of
forage availability on brushlands (see para 5.02) and
within farms. Extension themes would combine soil
conservation (forage grasses and trees on contours and
fencing), with agronomy (intercropping of legumes with
cereals, regeneration of fallows, etc.), and feeding
(forage crops, use of by-products, promotion of
stall-feeding, use of mineral supplements).



- 36 -
(vii)   improvement of watering infrastructure;
(viii)   intensification of livestock raising with shelter
improvements;
(ix)   genetic improvement including cross-breeding with selected
imported bulls, he-goats and rams, castrations, and through
cockerel exchange programs;
(x)   management advice to commercial poultry farmers and
regularization of supply of day-old chicks and fodder to
commercial and traditional farmers.
5.05      Extension manuals would be prepared under the guidance of the
training/extension specia:List, and updated as appropriate. Provision of a
preliminary extension manual, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of
project effectiveness (para 6.02 (vi)). Radio has been used quite
effectively in rodent control programs during implementation of the ID-
Coconut project. Its use would be extended to cover the broad range of
agricultural themes under the proposed project, under the guidance of the
training/extension specialist.
B. Studies and Trials
5.06      The extension messages would be revised as new themes are
developed. Links would be maintained with international research bodies
such as CIMMYT, IITA and IRAT for agriculture, IRHO for coconuts, CTFT for
forestry/land conservation and IEMVT for livestock. Applied research would
be supervised through the Research/Development Unit; initial trials and
studies would be conducted at the Research Unit on CADER plots and on
farmers' fields. Both the CEFADER/CADER system and the small size of the
country would facilitate maintenance of linKs between extension and
research; except for Moheli, all parts of the islands are within 1 and 1/2
hours drive of the research stations.
5.07      For forestry, land conservation studies and trials would include:
(a) improvement of forage t:rees; different varieties of acacia (e.g. acacia
auriculiformis), leucena and gleditsia should be tested; (b) research into
local forest trees with forage potential; (c) research into local (Kahia
Comorensis) or exotic (cedrela, swietania) forest trees which could be used
in farm-forestry particularly in conjunction with bananas, in order to
ensure permanent vegetation cover.
5.08      For agriculture, they would include:  (a) continued variety
trials, both for exotic and, local varieties, for the main food crops; (b)
trials to test fertilizer and pesticide response; (c) trials on new crop
association, densities and timing of planting; (d) trials to improve soil
fertility through mulching and manure. Other trials also associated with



- 37 -
livestock would include: (a) experimenting with new forage species for
land terracing3! or legumes;!/ (b) intercropping and association of
forage species with cereal foodcrops; (c) fallow cultivation with forage
species5/ or legumes.6/
5.09      Livestock studies and trials would focus on (a) improved
diagnosis of disease and identification of constraints to growth through
laboratory testing; (b) means of treatment of diseases that are identified;
(c) monitoring results of cross-breeding with exotic species; (c) testing
different improved animal husbandry techniques.
C. Benefits
5.10      As with any institution building and extension project, it is
difficult to isolate the benefits of the proposed project. Furthermore,
the very weak data base, and the current lack of a monitoring unit
frustrate efforts to quantify benefits. Other donor-supported projects
underway have probably had some impact on production, particularly the EDF
maize/foodcrops project. The WFP land terracing/rural works project has
also carried out valuable work. Nevertheless, an attempt has been made to
quantify the production increases. A dual approach has been adopted.
5.11      Table 7 indicates the production increases that are likely to
occur as a result of the project. The productivity parameters are
indicated in Annex 5, Tables 6, 7 and 8. Production increases appear
relatively substantial for maize and legumes, because they have the best
available technical package. Increases for poultry are considerable
because it is expected that with little further investment, the
semi-industrial poultry and feed unit, whose output is at present
insignificant, could come into production. Wood production increases would
be due to correct management of the Maoueni, Grille and Kartala forests,
and to production from planting, through farm forestry, and on abandloned
lands. Crop production increases are based on the assumption that
approximately 12,500 farmers (1,100 per CADER or 110 per extension worker)
would adopt the improved techniques by year 6, and 26,000 by year 11. It
is assumed that 30% of herds would benefit from livestock services and
improved forage availability in year 6 and 40% in year 11. These
3/ Pennisetum purpureum,Setaria sphacelata, tripsacum laxum.
4/ Cajanus cajan, leucena leucocephala.
5/  Andropogon gayanus, Brachiaria ruziziensis, Cenchrus ciliaris, chloris
gayana, Pennisetum purpureum.
6/ Stylosanthes humilis, Stylosanthes guianensis.



- 38 -
Table 7
Production With and Without the Project
Value of
Production Without            Production With            Increases               Increase
The Project                  The Project                (tons)                (MCFAF)
FoodEcrops                 PY 0      PY 6       PY 11       PY 6         PY 11         PY 6        PY 11      PY 6    PY I
Paddy (tons)               4,030     4,520      5,015        4,180        4,315          (340)       (700)   (51)    (10E
Maize (tons)               2,390     2,690      2,970         3,710       5,075         1,020       2,105    161       345
Cassava (tons)            27,050    30,475    33,650        31,890       36,570         1,418       2,925      79      170
Yams/Cocoyams (tons)       4,460     5,020      5,540         5,270       6,060           250         520      11       23
Bananas (tons)            35,000    39,440    43,540        41,310       47,410         1,870       3,870      73      155
Sweet Potatoes             4,770     5,380      5,940        5,630        6,465           250         525      11       23
Legumes (tons)             3,660     4,120      4,550        4,920        6,190           800       1,640      34       72
318      680
Livestock
Beef (tons)                  450       510        565          560          650            50          95      65      124
Mutton/Goatmieat (tons)       64        72         79           84          101            12          22      17       31
Poultry (ton.s)               23        26         29           159         187           133         158    154       185
Milk (tons)                  400        450       500           700       1,070           250         570      25       57
Eggs (units)             500,000   560,00o   620,000    3,035,000   3,475,000    3,595,000   4,093,000    270          307
531      704
Wood Products (C.U neters)
Fuelwood                 390,000   390,000   390,000       391,150      392,640*        1,150       2,640       5       14
Sawrwood and Poles        15,200    13,465    12,170        19,065       17,970*        5,500       5,500      24       28
29       42
* Additional increases expected after 1994.
PY = Project Year
Assumptions:  Livestock and foodcrcp production increase by 2% p.a. without the project, throigh area expansion as th
population grows. Wood production decreases by 2% p.a. as wood resourees are further depleted. (Paddy
production decreases). Prices are economic farngate prices derived from inrport parity prices.



- 39 -
production increases, assuming the prices indicated in Annex 5, Table 5,
and including recurrent costs and replacement costs at constant prices,
represent a 27% rate of return.
5.12      As a second approach, an attempt was made to calculate the
minimum production increases that would be necessary in order to attain a
10% rate of return. Maize yields for adopting farmers would have to
increase from 450 kgs per ha to 640 kgs per ha instead of 900 kgs per ha on
the original assumption, and cassava yields from 5 to 5.5 tons per ha
instead of 6.25 tons per ha. Alternatively, 5,500 farmers would adopt new
techniques by year 6, and 11,000 by year 11; and only 13% of herds would
benefit from livestock services in year 6 and 17% in year 11. It may be
said with some confidence that these modest production increases shciuld be
achieved.
5.13      The increases summarized above are based on the technical
messages currently available and described in paras 5.01 to 5.08. It is
hoped that the eventual scope for productivity improvements will be much
greater than this, as trials and studies are developed and their results
transformed into technical messages available for dissemination to
farmers. Indeed, present yields in other areas of East Africa with similar
ecological conditions are substantially higher. Average yields on t:he
densely populated Rwanda highlands are currently 1.1 tons per ha for maize
and 4 tons per ha for sweet potatoes, compared with the proposed 'with
project' yields of 0.9 tons for maize and 3.5 tons for sweet potatoies.
5.14      The value of the projected production increases is estimated at
CFAF 880 million by year 6, and CFAF 1,400 million by year 11.
Foreign exchange savings measured in 1984 CIF prices are estimated at CFAF
485 million annually by PY 6 and CFAF 870 million annually by PY 11 (see
below). These figures compare with
Food                Imorts         Estimated Annual Import
Savings (1984 prices)
1981/2               PY 6                    PY 11
Volume (ton)
Rice             25,000                2,800                  5,825
Meat              1,250                  200                    275
Value (MCFAF)
Rice              2,340                  275                    575
Meat                660                  210                     295
annual project operating costs of approximately CFAF 109 million,  As
described in para 3.24, total operating costs of the Rural Services
Network, including those which are project-related, would be approximately
CFAF 380 million annually.



- 40 -
5.15      Comorian Government marketing and pricing policy is liberal, and
this is reflected in the fact that economic prices approach actual prices
for most agricultural products (Annex 5, Table 5). However, health and
nutritional levels are low in Comoros (see para 1.04), and the majority of
the population is living below the poverty level. A considerable
proportion of the increased production would probably not be marketed, but
consumed by the rural poipulation, bringing them benefits both in reduced
spending on rice, and in improved nutrition. This would be a substantial
benefit, given the current poverty and poor nutritional level of the rural
population. Other project benefits which have not been quantified include
the long term preservation of the islands' ecological balance and soil
fertility.
D. Risks
5.16      The major risks to project implementation and successful
continuation of project activities once IDA involvement is over are (i) the
limited technical packages available at present; (ii) limited Comorian
skilled manpower to execute project activities; and (iii) government's
difficult financial situation, with lack of funds for financing the
recurrent costs of the service. However, the project should improve the
country's balance of payments situation by reducing the rate of increase in
food imports. The project includes measures to safeguard against these
risks by
(i) including applied research, variety trials, monitoring of
results and links with international research bodies for each of
the technical components (para 5.06);
(ii)  including substantial training programs, both locally and
overseas, for Comorian staff, and ensuring that a substantial
portion of technical assistants' work is devoted to in-service
training; and
(iii) through CEFADER/'CADER budget review and gradual improvement in
Central Government budgetary procedures, assuring a gradually
increasing contribution to CEFADER/CADER recurrent costs by
Government (para 3.24 to 3.29).
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
6.01      Government agreed to the following at Negotiations:
Financial Provisions
(i) That Government finance an increasing share of project costs
according to the schedule in Table 2 (para 3.24), and that all
project-related recurrent costs be incorporated into the
Government recurrent budget (para 3.28).



- 41 -
(ii)  That CEFADER prepare an annual budget for review by IDA and IFAD
no less than two months before the end of the financial year; the
budget would identify sources of revenue and uses for expenditure
(paras 3.05, 3.28, 3.37 and 4.07).
(iii) That all CEFADER/CADER recurrent costs are integrated into the
recurrent budget, whatever their source of financing, by the 1987
budget; and that Government make a gradually increasing
contribution to CEFADER/CADER operating costs, according to a
schedule outlined at Negotiations and to be agreed upon annually
through the project period (para 3.28).
(iv)  That separate project accounts including identification of IFAD,
IDA and Government contributions be maintained by the CEFADER,
that all project accounts be audited by independent auditors
whose qualifications and experiences are acceptable to IDA and
IFAD audited accounts, together with an auditor's report would be
submitted to IDA and IFAD not later than three months following
the financial year (paras 3.29 and 3.37).
(v) That materials sold through the CADERs be sold on a cash basis,
at prices reflecting cost prices plus an appropriate margin, and
that these prices be reviewed annually with IDA (para 3.41).
(vi)  That as stumpage fees are collected, they would help to finance
forestry and other CEFADER/CADER activities (para 3.29).
Organizational Provisions
(viii) That CEFADER prepare an annual work program to be submitted with
the budget two months before the end of each financial year
detailing activities and objectives. This work program and
budget would be reviewed annually in the field by Government, IDA
and IFAD (paras 3.28 and 4.07).
(ix)  That reporting procedures as outlined in para 4.07 be followed,
that all documentation of CEFADER/CADER activities be made
available to IDA and IFAD on request, and that a Project
Completion Report be prepared no more than 6 months after the
completion of the Project (paras 4.05 and 4.07).
(x) That a project mid-term review be carried out (para 4.08).,
(xi)  That procurement procedures follow those outlined in para 3.34.
(xii) That Senior CEFADER and CADER appointments for activities
concerning those financed by the project, including the futture
directors of the Livestock and Forestry/Environment departments,
be discussed with and acceptable to IDA and IFAD; that adequately
qualified Comorians are available to fill the posts of CADER
directors (para 3.21).



- 42 -
(xiii)  That the terms of reference of the technical assistants financed
under the project are acceptable to Government, and that
technical assistants, when appointed, have executive
responsibilities while Comorians are being trained to fill
these positions (para 3.22).
(xiv) That the CEFADER/CADERs be reorganized along the lines indicated
in the second Chart of Annex I (para 4.01).
(xv)  That a harmonized salary structure for all staff be put into
effect by April 30, 1986 (para 4.06).
(xvi) That a scheme be prepared by December 31, 1984, to ensure that
Comorians who do not return home after undertaking project-
financed training reimburse the costs of this training (Annex 4
and para 3.21).
6.02      It was also agreed at Negotiations that the following would be
conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  Completion of an audit for all CEFADER/CADER activities for 1982
and i983.
(ii)  Preparation of statements of expenditure for all CEFADER
activities, analysis of these activities by source of financing
and preparation of a consolidated budget for all CEFADER/CADER
activities (paras 3.06 and 3.26).
(iii) Opening of a Special Account in a commercial bank under terms and
conditions acceptable to LDA and IFAD for the purpose of
assisting Government to prefinance expenditures eligible for
reimbursement other than those which IDA and IFAD would finance
directly; and opening of a Counterpart Account in an Institution
acceptable to IDA and IFAD to facilitate Government contribution
to project financing with an initial contribution by Government
of US$20,000 (para 3.40). The accounts would be replenished, by
IDA and IFAD and by Government respectively, on the basis of
quarterly statements of expenditure.
(iv)  Opening of an account in a commercial bank to establish a
revolving materiLals account for the deposit of payments by
farmers for inputs and materials (para 3.41).
Organizational Provisions
(v) Preparation and submission to IDA and IFAD of detailed pilot work
programs for agronomy, livestock, farm forestry, data
collection/monitoring, extension and training. These programs
would include a list of all agricultural staff by source of
financing and proposals as appropriate for their redeployment and
training (paras 3.05, 3.09, 3e14, 3.17, 3.20 and 4.07).



- 43 -
(vi) Preparation of a preliminary extension manual satisfactory to IDA
and IFAD (paras 3.09 and 5.05).
6.03      Subject to the above conditions being met, it is recommended that
the proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR
4.7 million (US$5 million equivalent), and an IFAD loan of SDR 3.1 million
(US$3.3 equivalent) on standard terms to the Government of the Federal
islamic Republic of Comoros.



COMOROS
FEDERAL ORGANIZATION FOR SUPPORT TO RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Organization Chart
Min..te
Secretariar         ChEAPER Generm             External Relations
"Ocretoriat           10          ~~~~Documentation Contre
Administration            Dirtrate               Inspection & Cont,ol
technical                                                                                             Im     Resources
- r,,pKlrtr-efst |                                                                                                   Department
_1 _                                    I-                                                 II                       I         I                    II                         I  1     
Agronomy                  Livestock                 Forestry            Rural Development           Economics &                 tHome Economics               Nutrition                 Iraining &
Division                 Division                 Division                  Division m      _    Research Division                  Division          L      Dvisorn               Extension Division
Food Crops             -vestocr Production        Sitviculture             -uitdings & Roads         MeteorologV           I
Cash Crops                 oIltry .roductiort      Camrrunify              -Wate  & Soil             Economics& Statistics                                                        Rural Support
rap Protection          nimal Health           -Forests                   Protecton                Marketing & ricirrg   I                            tMoss Communication
-              ----- Rural Scoronls Support
.   .    I                  I                                                                 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  I
Research &
Laboratory             Develooment
CADERS
_-
L_______|  Technical
Activity Zones 
World Eank-24687
I-"l



ANNEX 1
Chart 2
- 45 -
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Federal Organization for Support to Rural Development (CEFADER)
Revised Organization Chart
Ministry of
Production
Secretariat                                                                               Control & Processing
Administration       L          \/I                                                         Monitoring, Planning9
& Finance                                                                                      E-  , valuation
\                    ~~~~~~CEFADER                      10
Directorate
Technical                                                                   /              human Resources
Department                                                                /                 HUDepartment
Agronomy                                                                                          Training/Extension
Island
Supervisors
Livestock                                                                                        Htome Economics
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wr Fornktry/2r0nC
I  PnorstiryL 1nd                                                                                    Profess,onofs Tr^aining 
l                        ~~~~~~CADERSr1
CivilvWorks                                                                                    Resec rcrrh/Deeiloperm-fIt
_Documentation &
Informotion
Word 8ank--2608C



ANNEX  2
- 46 -
Estimnted Schedule of Disbursements
(Js$ '000)
IDA Disbursements         I/        IFAD Disbursements              Ca]lative % Disbursed
lDA Fiscal Year                          End of Quarter       Cmuilative      End of Quarter      Cunulative      Project       Agr. Sector
E. Africa 3/
1985           September 1964             475 2/             475                60                60            6              0.0
December  1984             150               625               150               210
March      1985            160               785               150               360
June       1985            170               955               150               510            18              1
1960           September 1985             230              1,185               130               640
December  1985             230             1,415               170               810           27               3
March      1986            2330            1,645               170               980
.lune      1986            405             2,050               170             1,150           38              7
1967           September 1986             325             2,375                190             1,340
December  1986             190             2,565               190             1,530           49              13
March      1987            190             2,755               190             1,720
June       1967            190             2,945               190             1,910           58             20
1986           Septemter 1987             2(0             3,150                130)            2,040
DLecember  1988           210              3,3t0               13(J            2,L70           66             29
March      1988            210             3,5/0               130             2,3(0
June       1988            210             3,780               130             2,430           74             38
1989           September 1988             .L71            3,Y95J               120             2,550
December  1988             175             4,125               113             2,663           81             48
.Marn      1989            '80             4,305               l20             2,763
June       1989             75             4,480               120             2,903           88              58
1990             Septemher 1969             140             4,62)               100             3,003
Decenmber  1989           140             4,760                110             3,113           94             67
March      1990            140             4,90')              110             3,223
June.     1990             140             5,044               105             3,328           100             75
Total                                    5,C41             5,041             3,328             3,328
1/ Expected date of signing:           June 1984
Expected date of effectiveness:  August 1984
Exected aoxpletion date:           September 1989
Expected closing date:             June 1990
2/  PPF.
3/  1971-81 data.



47 -                                                     ANNEX 3
TaCleR1
RURAL DEVELOPMENT SEFRVICES PROJECT
Pmojpet CoMponent bY Ti'ie
'CFAF Million)
Table 1
BEase Costs                     TotaI
1      2       3       4       .5     CFAF   WUS$ '000)
A, DATA COLLECTION. MCNITORINO AN., PLANNING UNIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                     75.2   52.1   30.7   10.1    5.5   73.5            476.6
ViEHICLEI AND EDOIPHENT                                                  11,3    0.7    4.6    4.1       4,6    25.4         69.,
TRAINING                                                                  4,4    9,9    3,7         -       -    17.9         49.1
UNIT GPEFATING COSTS                                                      5.0     6.4    7,3    8.0    3.0    34.7            95.4
Sub-Total DATA COLLECTION, MONITORING AND PLANNING UNIT                     f:6.0   69.1   4b.3   22.1   18.1   251.5           691.0
, ASSISTANCE CEFADER ADMINISTRATION
INV)ESTMENT COSTS                                                        85.6   62.S   42,8   24,6   3i.-   247,'           678.7
OPERATING COSTS                                                           4,3    9.3    7,3    9.3    9.3    41.6            114.4
S.,-Ttet  ASRSISTANCE CERADEP ADMINISTRATiON                                39.9   72.1   52.1   37,9   40.6   288.7            793,1
C, TRAINING S SUPERVISION SYSTEM
'NIIIAL TRAINING                                                          1  1.1 .2    0.9    0.6    0.6          4,3        11.8
STPENGT6ING HUMAN RESOURCES CIHISION                                     69,2   5-6   10.1   10.1   10.1   151.0            414.9
FORTNIGHTLY TRAINING                                                      3.6    3.6     3.6      3,6    3.6    17,9          49,1
TWICE )EARLY INSERVICE TRAINING                                           2.4     2.6     2.8    3.?    3.0    13.8          37,9
NSERVICE TATNING SENIOR STAFF                                            1.'    1.5      1.5     1,5    1.5      7,7         21.1
TECHNICAL PRLLOW-UF                                                       4,9    4.9    4,9    4,9    4,9    24.5            67.2
OTHER COSTS                                                               5,7    5.7    5.7    5.7    5,I    28.6             78,6
S'b-Tnt;1 TRAINING g SUPERVISION SYSTEM                                     S8.4   71,2   29,5   29.'   29.4   247.1            630.7
D, ASSISTANCE CADERS OPERATION
EAST ZO0NE CEADERS                                                        7.4  104,5   15.9              6,7   134.5        369.6
VEHICLE REPLACEMENT) ALL CAGERS                                             -   2.9         -   27.9        -    48.8        1339
TECHNICAL 4SSISTANCE                                                     I'.9   15,1    9,4    7.5         -    50,7        139.3
STAFF COSTS                                                               4.6    5.7   15.2   19.6   22.2    70.3            193.2
OTHEf UPERATING COSTS                                                    .336   41,0   43l3   50.8   50.8   219.6           60312
Sub-Total ASSISTANCE CADERS OPERATION                                       64.4  190,2   53.9  105,   79.6   523,9    1,439,2
E- LIVESTOC.K ACTIVITIES
STRENGTHENINC CEFARER                                                   102,3  5S.5   67,1   6-.5   61,4   356.E            950.2
TRAININE                                                                 18.0   28.3   41,9   28,3   19.9   137.,            376.7
STRENGTHENING CADERS                                                     57,1   20.9   49.0   20.0   20.3   168.1            461.7
SLAUGsTEfR IMPROVEMENT                                                    5.2    0,4    6.3    6,3          -    27,2         74,.
F3ULTRY DEVELOiPMENT                                                     44,.   13,9   10.9    7,7    5,9    82.8           227.4
SuJb-Totai JIUESTOCK  ACT,ViT1ES                                            2'7,7  131,0  175,1   130.5  107.5   77,8 2, 20.4
F. FORESTRY/LAND CONSERVATION ACTIVITIES
INVENTORY ICEFADER)                                                      p76.6      -       -       -       -    76.6        210.5
FORESTS  (CREFNDER!                                                       8.3     1.0     1,0    1,6    1.6    13.5           37,2
TREE PLANTING: UNCULTIVATED ACTIVITIES                                    1.A    3.2    3.9    6,6    7.8    23.0             63.2
SOIL CONSERVATIONITRDE FLhNTlN-    CULTIVATED AREAS  CAfEPS!              1,8    3,9    4.2    4.2    4,2    18.3             5,03
PLANT MATERIAL PRODUCTION (ClADERS)                                       4,5  3,5        3,7    5,    4,2    21,7           59,6
STRENGTHENING CREFIEP                                                    58,5   64,t   62.6   61.1   59.4 . 306.2            841.4
SbJr-Tot-?)1 FPOESTRrfLANCf CONSERVATION AC-1TV:TIES                       .51,4   76,2   75,3   79,4   77,2   4S9,1          1,262.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                         717,6  609.8  462.2  401.1  3'2.4 2,543.1          6.986.5
Phasika1 Continsencies                                                     718    61.0   A6,2   40.1   35.2   254.2            698,7
Price Contingencies                                                        41.4  106.2  124.6  148.5  168.1   589. 0    1,618.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                          830.8  776.9  633.2  539.7  555.8 3.86,4    9,30334
Fc-eiHn, E'chabnse                                                        599,6  470.0  399,4  358.2  316.2 2,143.4    5y888.5
Deceetber 22. 1983  131i12



-48-                                          ANN-     3
COMOHROS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost by Expenditure Ctegory
Cy'AF 'OflOG
T61lx 2
Totals Including Continsencies
Unit     Unit Cost      No. of Units      1           2          3           4           5         Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. I BA TRAINING                                     1.26-565.11         2,950    6,469.7   17,297.5   16.572.2    4,804.7    37060.9    48,212.9
P. IDA LIVESTOCK.AND EQUIPMENT                   51.825-3,?48.26            32    80873.4         91.8   119940.7       428.3       104.0    21,438.2
C. IDA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      (.214-4i558.554           506  1S8,087.2  1960745.2  150,135.7  116,740.8  120,816.5   772,525.5
D. IDA CIVIL WDRKS                                  0.472-52,275         4,502   10,242.9  139,607.7    5,136.1    7,327,3   10,609,9   172y923.9
E. IDA VEHICLES                                186.543-3?330.382            83   25i179.7   57i316.5   1ls767.8   66,296.4   37,540.0   198,100.4
F. IDA   PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY            0.214-46558.554           248  188,935.8            -          -           -           -   188,935.8
G. iFAD TRAINING                                    15.75-941.85         1.030   43.114.7   51i307.0   64,760.3   40,197.5   30.082.2   229,461.6
H. IFAD LIVESTOCK AND EQUIPMENT                        207-5,175           114   43,567.6    3,726.8   34,606.1    2,650.4    4i994.5    896545.4
1. IFAD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   312,75-4,558.554            142  131,651.7  133Y935.9  107,202.3   84,478.7   82,929.8   540Y198.5
J. IFAD CIVIL WORKS                                1Y050-5,227.5            43   31,931.9   24,326.5   35,202.1   23,816.4   15Y317.5   130,594,4
K. IFAD VEHICLES                                186.57-3,330.382            76   18,887,7    1,880.1   13,249.3   21,256.7    9,913.9    65,187.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                              696,942.2  626,235.1  450,572.8  367,997.1  315,377.1 2,457,124.3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. IDA TRAINING                                    0.209-565.11        20,658   19,783.8   21,822,3   23,898.8   26,058.8   28,194.8   119,758.4
B, IDA LIVESTOCK. AND EQUIPMENT                     103.5-1,050            47    8,743.9    9,595.4   13,753.9   14,949.0   16,174.2    63,216.4
C. IDA MATERIALS                                    0.311-367.5        17,5O0   18S078.7   27,574.7   29,861.7   45,281,0   45,976.5   166,772.7
D. IDA SALARIES                                        12.6-126       164,080   12,222.7   21,042.4   33,674.7   47,165.4   56,547.3   170,652.4
E. IDA VEHICLES                                      36,487-840           182   22i842.8   31,716.7   34,525.7   37,358.7   40,164.4   166,608.3
F. IDA   PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                   12.6-42            42    1,469.2            -           -          -           -     1,469.2
B. IFAD LIVESTOCK ANII EOUIPMENT                 23,977-3M275              80    2,195.8       549.8       594.0       638.7       684.6     4,662.9
H. IFAD MATERIALS                                   12.42-3,105           655   24,636.2   10,411.8   14,545.8   14,883.6   13Y154.7    77,632.1
1. IFAD SALARIES                                       12.6-126         2,274   17,148.1   20,462.9   23,521.4   26,554.0   30,010.9   117,697.3
J. IFAD   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                        31.5             5        37.5        41.1       44.9        48.8        52.9       225.2
K. IFAD VEHICLES                                     36.487-834           147    6,721.6    7,480,3    8,181.5    8,798,3    9,429,7    40,611.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                               133,880.2  150,697.5  182,602.4  221,736.4  240,389.8   929,306.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                  830,822.4  776,932.5  633,175.2  589,733,5  555,766.9 3,386i430.5
lDecesber 22, 1983 13i12
Note:   Project-related  operating  costs  include  salaries  of  existing  staff  likely  to be redeployed  fr=
other areas, and operating costs of vehicles previously supplied by previous donors, and replaced
under the project. They thus represent an over-estimate of the budgetary frpact of the project.



- 49 -                            ANNEX 3
Table 3
Table 3
Price Contingencies (%)
PY 1        PY 2         PY 3         PY 4        PY 5
Local            10           9.5         9            8.5          8
Foreign           7.5         7           6.5          6            6



-50 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 4
Table 4
Project Related Recurrent Costs
(MCFAF)
pY I      PY 2      PY 3      PY 4      PY 5
(a) Base Costs
Training                      17        17        17        17        17
Livestock & equipmerLt         9         8        10        10        10
Materials                     36        30        33        41        38
Salaries                      24        32        40        47        52
Vehicles                      25        31        31        31        31
PPF                            1
113       117       131      147        148
(b) Current Prices with Contingencies
Training                      20        22        24        26        28
Livestock & equipmeni:        11        10        14        16        17
Materials                     42        37        44        60        59
Salaries                      29        42        57        74        86
Vehicles                      30        28        42        46        49
PPF                            I
134      151        183      222       240
(c)  Recurrent Costs taken over by the project, and
previously financed by other donors (base costs)
Training                                                   -          -
Livestock & equipment          7         7         9         9         9
Materials                          -              -
Salaries                       6         7         8         8         8
Vehicles                      15        20        20        20        20
28        34        37        37        37
(Current prices with
contingencies)              (33)      (44)     (52)       (56)     (60)
(d)  Net Incremental Impact on budget of project (base costs)
Training                      17        17        17        17        17
Livestock & equipment          2         1         1         1         1
Materials                     -         -         -         -         -
Salaries                      18        25        32       39         44
Vehicles                      10        11        11        11        11
47        54        61        68        73
(Current prices with
contingencies)              (56)      (70)      (85)    (103)     (118)
Note:         In calculating Government contribution to recurrent costs,
materials are not included,since these are increments to the
revolving fund for sale of inputs and veterinary products to
farmers, and would not be a long term charge on Government.
Assumption:  Vehicles supplied and operated under this project would
include replacement of 9 at the CEFADER previously supplied by
other donors, and 14 at the CADERs. Buildings maintained
under the CADERs include all 9 CADER buildings except those in
the AfDB project. Staff to be redeployed include 20 extension
agents, 11 nursery agents, while at least 6 of the technical
staff in livestock and forestry are already on the payroll.
The scope for redeployment may be substantially greater.



- 51 -                            ANNEX 3
Table 5
Table 5
Project and CEFADER/CADER Estimated Operating Costs
and Government Cash Flow
(constant March 1984 prices)
1985      1986      1987      1988      1989
Expenditures (Project)
CEFADER Administration                   4         9         9         9         9
CADERs:  incremental                    31        35        44        48        50
Training and Supervision                18        18        18        18        18
Monitoring and Evaluation                5         6         7         8         8
Livestock Unit                          30        20        23        22        21
Forestry/land conservation unit          9         9        10        15        14
Sub-total                               97        97       111       120       120
Expenditures (Other)
Ministry of Production                  55        55        55        55        55
CEFADER                                 51        46        46        46        46
CADERs:  existing                       49        49        49        49        49
Research and Development                11        11        11        11        11
Coconut unit                            15        15        15        15        15
Vehicle replacement                                                   20        45
Sub-total                              181       176       176       196       221
Miscellaneous                           22        47        58        64        39
Sub-total                              203       223       234       260       260
(Current prices)
TOTAL                                  300       320       345       380       380
Inflows (Project)
IDA/IFAD                                78        73        67        48        30
Govt.                                   19        24        44        72    990
Sub-total                               97        97       111       120       120
Inflows (Other)
Govt.                                   91       141       176       203       240
Other donors                           112        82        58        57        20
Sub-total                              203       223       234       260       260
TOTAL                                  300       320       345       380       380
Note: Figures on other expenditures, and on contributions by Govt. and
donors to non-project expenditures are highly tentative,



- 52 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 1
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Special Features
Technical Assistance
1.        The Project contains a substantial technical assistance
component, and technical assistance amounts to 40% of Project costs.
Table I
Summary of Technical Assistance
Months
Monitoring and Planning Unit Director                                 36
Consultancies                                                          7
Accounting and Financial Management                                   43
Consultancies                                                          6
Training and Extension                                                28
Consultancies                                                          8
Veterinary Department Director                                        64
Consultancies                                                         10
Forestry/Soil Conservation Director                                   64
Consultancies                                                          6
Total                                                          272
2.        The length of technical assistance is in each case determined by
the availability of Comorian personnel. The head of the
monitoring/planning unit is currently working in the CEFADER and, with one
years' further training and a period working with the expatriate, would be
adequately qualified. None of the accountants currently working for the
CEFADER/CADER has formal qualifications, and there are fewer than five
trained accountants in the whole country. However, it is assumed that
during the first three years of the Project life, one adequately qualified
candidate will be found who would be able, after the accounting system has
been established, and after working with the technical assistance, to
operate alone with short term assistance. The current director of the
Human Resources Division is experienced and well qualified and after two
years working with the training/extension specialist, he should be able to
manage the training and supervision system. There is currently no trained
veterinarian in the Comoros, though Comorians are undergoing livestock
specialist training overseas. It is assumed that one of these would be
sent abroad for further training; on his return, after working with the
expatriate director, he should be qualified to lead the department. There
are three foresters in Comoros but they already have full-time



- 53 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 2
responsibilities in other sectors. Again, it is assumed that one of the
Comorians currently undergoing training in forestry overseas, after further
training and a period with the expatriate, would lead the department.
Short-term consultancies will be needed to solve specific problems, eg.
assistance in the amendment of forestry and sanitation regulations,
specifications for the Maoueni sawmill, initial organization of data
collection and support to the extension/training program.
3.        It should be emphasized that one of the key functions of the
expatriates identified above will be on-the-job training of Comorian staff
at all levels, through the training and supervision system, but also
through day-to-day contacts, establishment and supervision of work programs
and assistance. Given the small size of the technical divisions, even when
operating at full capacity (30 for the forestry/land conservation division,
22 for home economics, 26 for livestock, 18 for monitoring and planning,
115 for extension, 16 for accounting), close personal contact will be
possible. (There would be in addition, some specialist staff for coconut
activities, export crop activities and research). Terms of reference for
the Technical Assistance are provided below.
4.        The project also provides for a total of 168 man-months of
technical assistance through the UN volunteer scheme, which is operating
well in Comoros. Volunteers are graduates with limited experience, who are
employed in field positions. Assistance would be broken down as foLlows:
man-month
Data Collection/Monitoring (agricultural economist)            24
Assistance to CADERS        (agriculturalists)               144



- 54 -                           ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
1. Monitoring/Planning Specialist
Under PPF, his responsibilities would include:
(a) Review of ongoing donor activities, their staffing, budgetary
impact, and, where possible, impact on production.
(b) Consolidation of a preliminary annual work program and budget for
all ongoing activities, in collaboration with the technical
divisions.
(c) Preparation of surveys and studies necessary to evaluate progress
of activities funded through CEFADER/CADER.
During the project life, his responsibilities would include:
(d) Recruitment, training, supervision and organization of the work
program of all unit staff, including the enumerators, data
processors, field and CEFADER technicians.
(e) In-service training of unit counterpart director, identification
of appropriate overseas training for him and unit technicians.
(f) Design and implementation of surveys and studies for (i) regular
agricultural data collection; (ii) specific studies to monitor
impact of CEFADER/CADER activities on production.
(g) On the basis of (f), make recommendations for activity
reorientation or redesign as appropriate.
(h) Consolidation of annual work programs and budgets of technical
divisions, for submittal to CEFADER directorate and Ministry of
Finance.
(i) Regular review Df Agricultural Public Investment Program, and
planning and design of new agricultural projects.
(j)  Organization and field support of Consultants' missions.
7 months supporting consultancies would be provided, including support to
the Comorian director once the T.A. has departed, and support in
specialized areas such as survey methodology.



-55-                             ANNEX 4
Aplpendix 1
Page 2
Qualifications and Experience
The successful candidate would be an agricultural economist, but
with some statistical knowledge and experience in handling macro-economic
issues, fluent in French and with at least 10 years experience in
development. His experience would include: (a) project appraisal; (b)
public investment planning; (c) rural data collection and analysis; (d)
project monitoring and budgeting; (e) management and training of
monitoring/data collection personnel.
2. Financial Management Specialist
Under PPF, his responsibilities would include:
(a) Preparation of statements of expenditure for all CEFADER/CADER
activities;
(b) Analysis of costs of all CEFADER/CADER activities, by activity
and by source of financing (including the Government budget and
external donors);
(c) Classification, as a separate exercise, of all staff working on
CEFADER/CADER activities by source of financing, in collaboration
with training/extension specialist;
(d) Preparation of a consolidated budget for all CEFADER/CADER
activities;
During project life, his responsibilities would include in
addition:
CEFADER/CADER: Institutional Aspects
(e) Review of the internal control system within CEFADER/CADER and
implementation of improvements;
(f) Establishment of a proper system of accounting, costing,
budgetary control and management reporting for the Instit:ution
and preparation of an annual budget for all CEFADER/CADER
activities;
(g) Establishment of a system of medium term planning;
(h) Establishment of a system of internal audit, including staffing
requirements;
(i) Liaison with external auditors, and assurance of timely
completion of annual audits and issue of appropriate reports
(including a long form report to management);



- 56 -                           ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 3
CEFADER/CADER - Project Related Aspects
(j) Establishment of the financial, statistical and accounting
procedures and records for project implementation. This should
include recording of IDA, IFAD and Government contributions as
well as expenditure analysis by activity;
(k) Preparation of composite project costs (quarterly);
(1) Maintenance of the account of the Revolving Fund, preparation of
quarterly Statements of Expenditure in support of Withdrawal
Applications and maintenance of the Materials account, both in a
form suitable for verification by independent auditors; and
(m)  Training and supervision of CEFADER and CADER accountants in
bookkeeping and accounting, and recruitment and training new
CADER accountants.
6 months consultancies would be provided for specialized training and
assistance to the Comorian accounting unit once the T.A. has departed.
Qualifications
The candidate would be a qualified member of a reorganized
Chartered Accountants' or Certified Public Accountants' Institute, fluent
in French with at least 8 years experience, including experience in a
developing country. His experience would include: (i) development of
simple accounting procedures for government agencies; (ii) management and
training of personnel in simple accounting and bookkeeping; and (iii) cost
control and analysis accounting.
3.  Training/Extension Specialist
Under PPF, his responsibilities would include:
(a) Verification of the inventory of existing posts and staffing in
the CEFADER/CADER organization, identification of staff available
for redeployment, and assessment of their training needs.
(b)  Collation of the list of new staff positions to be created in
each project yiear with redeployment of staff to new positions,
including requlrements for retraining.
(c) Identification and preparation in collaboration with technical
staff of relevant extension messages, and preparation of an
extension manual.
(d) Preparation of in-service training programs for existing
extension staff, in collaboration with other technical staff.



- 57 -                           ANNEX 4
,Ependix 1
Page 4
(e) Preparation of an action program for staff redeployment and
training.
During project life, his responsibilities would include in
addition:
(f)  Organization of programs of fortnightly training and supervision
for all extension staff on the basis of annual work programs, in
collaboration with technical staff.
(g) Revision of extension manuals, in collaboration with
research/development unit and technical directors.
(h) Preparation of radio programs with relevant extension messages,
in collaboration with the Comorian radio specialist.
(i) Supervision of work programs of extension staff, in collaboration
with technical directors and CADER directors.
(j) Organization of twice-yearly in-service training for all staff.
(K) Recruitment and organization of training programs of new
extension staff.
(1) The expert would work closely with the Comorian Human Resources
Director, who would design programs jointly with the T.A., and
take over all tasks on his departure.
(m)  Preparation of periodic implementation report on extension and
training-related activities.
(n) Organization and field support of consultants' missions.
8 months consultancies would be provided, including 4 to support the
Comorian director once the T.A. has departed.
Qualifications and Experience
An agronomist, fluent in French with a specialist qualification
in training, and at least 10 years experience. His experience should
ideally include: (a) the preparation of relevant multi-disciplinary
extension themes; (b) the training and field supervision of agricultural
extension workers; (c) the organization of work programs for
multi-disciplinary extension workers; (d) the preparation and teaching of
initial and in-service training programs.
4. Livestock Specialist
Under PPF, his responsibilities would include:



- 58 -                           ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 5
(a) Continuation of studies started under IFAD financed preparation
grant. Specifically these include:
(i)  the review of main animal health constraints through
laboratory analysis of biological samples and testing of the
best means to combat diseases through limited medicinal and
vaccination trials;
(ii) the review of existing regulations with regard to sanitation
control, and proposals for possible amendments and for
effective implementation;
(iii)  the inventory of herd productivity and exploitation through
collection and processing of herd coefficients, and the
examination of ways to increase animal productivity;
(iv) study of feed resources for livestock (pastures, forage
crops, crop residues and feed supplements) and of their
development potential;
(v)  in-service training of existing livestock technicians, and
identification of candidates for overseas training.
(vi) preparation of extension themes and simple animal health
programs for livestock, as a condition of project
effectiveness.
During the project life, he would be responsible for direction of
the livestock unit. His responsibilities would include:
(b)  Implementationl of a simple animal health and production program,
at CADER leveL through both veterinary nurses and
multi-disciplinary extension workers.
(c) In-service training and supervision of veterinary nurses,
laboratory technicians, poultry technicians and all livestock
staff, identification for overseas training of technicians and
the future Coniorian livestock director; a suitable candidate
would be identified by June 1985 at the latest.
(d) Participation in the training and extension program coordinated
by the training/extension specialist.
(e)  Supervision of trials and studies in animal health and
production.
(f) Design and supervision of construction of water catchment areas
and slaughtering areas.
(g) Participation in studies to assess program impact on production.



-59 -                           ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 6
(h)  Supervision of sanitation control agents and of specialized
expert missions concerning sanitation and hygiene as requested by
GOC.
(i)  Participation in the design of the CEFADER/CADERs annual work
program as coordinated by the data collection/monitoring/planning
specialist.
(j)  Preparation of periodic implementation reports on
livestock-related activities.
(k)  Supervision of operations and financial management of the poultry
food processing plant and production and sale of day-old chicks.
(1)  Organization and field support of livestock consultants'
missions.
10 months of supporting consultancies would be provided in
specialized areas such as sanitary legislation, poultry farming and forage
crop production.
Qualifications
The successful candidate would be a veterinarian, fluent in
French, with at least 10 years experience in developing countries,
including experience in developing and operating livestock programs, with
particular emphasis on development and extension of simple techniques to
improve production, and in training and managing livestock staff.
5. Forester/Land Conservation Specialist
Under PPF, his responsibilities would include:
(a) Establishment of T.O.R. for aerial photo coverage, superviision of
contracting procedures and contractor.
(b) Review of land conservation activities carried out to date, and
preparation of a revised program.
(c) In-serice training of existing forestry/land conservation
technicians, and identification of candidates for training.
During the project life, his duties would include in addition:
(d) Supervision of aerial photography interpretation, including
establishment of land use mapping legend in collaboration with
CEFADER specialists, and recruitment and training of draftsmen.
(e) Recruitment and training of forestry/land conservation staff, and
identification of overseas training as appropriate.



- 60 -                           ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 7
(f) Development of work programs and supervision of all forestry/land
conservation staff.
(g) Development of conservation/tree planting extension themes in
coordination with training/extension specialist.
(h)  Development and implementation of management plans for Maoueni,
La Grille and Kartala Forests, and preparation and participation
of negotiations in contract for managed exploitation of Maoueni
forest.
(i) Revision of forestry legislation.
(j)  Development of trials and studies, in coordination with
Research/Development Unit.
(k) Preparation of periodic implementation reports on forestry/land
consrvation activities.
(1)  Organization and field support of forestry consultants' missions.
b months of supporting consultancies would be provided, for specialized
areas including forestry legislation, appropriate contractual arrangements
for exploitation of the Maoueni forests, etc.
Qualifications and Experience
The successful candidate would be a forester fluent in French
with particular experience in land conservation, and a knowledge of aerial
photography and land use mapping procedures. He would have at least 10
years experience, including 5 in developing countries, including: (i)
design and implementation of soil conservation/farm forestry programs; (ii)
tropical forestry management; (iii) training and organizing land
conservation/forestry staff; (iv) conducting forest inventories.
b. UN Volunteer
CADER Assistants
UN Volunteers would be recruited through the UN organization, and
financed by the project. CEFADER have assured the mission that this
arrangement is satisfactory to UNDP. They would be responsible for:
(a) Assisting CADER direction in organizing extension workers' work
program, and supervising their work, in particular their program
of field visits and contacts with village animators.
(b) Assisting CADER direction in assessing success of farmer response
to technical packages, and developing proposals for
reorientation.



-61 -                            ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 8
(c) Assisting CADER direction in production of improved seed and
organization of seed multiplication programs.
(d) Assisting CADER direction in maintaining project accounts.
Volunteers would be trained agronomists with a speciality in
tropical agriculture, preferably with some previous experience, and with a
high level of commitment to development.
The UN volunteer to be recruited for the monitoring/planning unit
would be an agricultural economist with knowledge of sampling techniques
and survey design and organization.



- 62 -                        ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 1
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Incremental Staff Requirements and Training Program
1.        As the institutional strength of the CEFADER/CADER system is
built up, a substantial training effort will be required both for existing
and for new staff. Table la indicates the incremental staff requirements.
There are currently a number of agricultural staff who have not yet been
assigned to a particular position. Table lb provides a preliminary
estimate of the new staff positions. Government has identified senior
staff recently or about to return from training as CADER directors and
assistant directors. Training financed by other donors is not included;
this includes training for the FAC financed research/development unit, for
specialists for the Nioumalcele project, and, assuming the Vanilla/Clove
project is reoriented, training for a vanilla/clove specialist.



- 63 -                              ANNEX 4
N2pendix 2
Page 2
Table I
(a) Project Trainng Rurem8nts
Incremental    Training Provided   Foreign
Extension                   Qualifications   Current  Requdrements       Under PoLoca
Technical Director          Degree              1                            No               -
Human Resources Director   Degree               I            -               No
CADER. Directors/Assistants  Degree/Diploua    17            6               No               F
CADER Accountants               -               9            2               Yes              L
CADEK Extension Staff       Cert./Prac. Trn.   75           45               Yes              L
CADER lone Eoonomists       Prac. Training     19            3               Yes              L
Forestry/Land Conservation
Director                    Degree              -            1               Yes              F
CADER Tree Planting/Soil    Cert./Prac. Trn    -            12               Yes              L
Conservation Agents
Forestry Management Tech.  Certificate          1            2               Yes              F
Nursery Agents                                  -           11               Yes              L
1-hoto-lnterpreter          Certificate         -            1               Yes              F
Drattsman                   Certificate         -            1               Yes              F
Livestock
Director                    Degree              -            1               Yes              F
CADER Vet. Nurses           Certificate         3            9               Yes              F
Lab. Technicians            Certificate         2            1               Yes              F
lsland Supervisors          Certificate         -            2                -               F
Sanitation Agents           Certificate         -            3               Yes              F
Poultry Technicians         Certificate         1            2               Yes              F
Poultry Unit Director       Dipioma             I            -               No
Data Coliection/MonitorIng/Planning
Director                    Degree              1                           Yes              F
Technician                  Certificate         -            I               Yes              F
Data Processors             Prac. Training      I            I               Yes              L
Island Supervisors          Certificate         -            1               Yes              F
CADER Enumerators           Prac, Training      1           11               Yes              L



- 64 -                               ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 3
(b) Additional Staff equiremqnts*
Existing
Assigned     SLmaery of        Existing Staff         'Net' Incremental
Staff  Ra uiremnnts   not assigned to C R                  uirements
GrahLiate/Diploma Level      21            8                    2*                      9
Technical Level               8           23                   11*                     14
Cert. /Prac. /Training       95           72                   39*                     43
Prac. Training                                                 15+
*       Includes cownut staff of 2 directors, 2 technicians and 30 extension workers. Column 4
assumes coconut director, technicians and 10 of the extensicn workers will stay with the
project.
Note: The tables provide only a preliminary estimate of the blance between rew staff and
redeployed staff. The staff training program to be prepared as a condition of project
effectiveness will provide a nuch clearer picture.



- 65 -                         ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 4
Table 2
Staff Training Schedule (man/years)
Local Training                     PY 1      M'Y 2     PY 3      PY 4     PY 5
Extension Agents                -         6         8        14        8
Home Economists                           2         2         -        -
Conservation Agents             5         4         2        -         _
Accountants                     4         2         -
Enumerators                     5         4         2
Training Abroad
(a) Monitoring/Planning
Monitoring/Planning
Director                        1/2       i/2    -
Technician                               12        12
Island Supervisor               -        12         -        -         -
(b) Livestock
Veterinarian                    2         2         2         2        2
Veterinary Nurses               4         8        12         8        4
Poultry Technician              1         1         1        -         -
Food Processing Tech.           1         -         -
Poultry Extensionist            1 1/2    -          -        -         -
(c) Forestry/Land Conservation
Director                           1/2    1         1         1        1/2
Technicians                     0.25      3         3        -
5,        Home economists and extension staff would be trained at a rate of
approximately 10 per year (allowing for dropouts). Academic education to
B.E.P.C. level would be required (this is equivalent to successful
completion of American 9th grade), and their training would consist, very
briefly, of three weeks at headquarters, followed by two weeks in the
CADERs and a final week at headquarters. The training/extension specialist
would be responsible for organizing their training program with the
assistance of the technical directors. He would be financed initially
under a PPF to prepare these programs. Their training would be
substantially reinforced by fortnightly training sessions, bi-annual
training, by close supervision from technical specialists and CADER
directors. Continuous training of this type is key to the success of the
extension system.
6.        Local training would also be provided for tree planting/land
conservation agents, and nursery agents. It would be entirely on-the-job
training, planned and executed by the forestry/land conservation director.
Veterinary nurses  uuLIUL-Ler livestock tcchnical staff woili  r'p-ivi! fturther



- 66 -                         ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 5
on-the-job training from the department director. Initial training,
bi-annual training and more substantial 'refresher' training courses would
be provided at the Moheli agricultural school, once it is complete. It
should be noted that training for CADER directors has not been provided.
The CEFADER has assured IDA that these positions can be filled by Comorians
in the country who are about to complete training. Further assurances to
this effect would be obtained at Negotiations. At Negotiations, Government
should also agree that IDA has the right to approve all senior CEFADER and
CADER project related appointments.
7.        Overseas training is costly, and in the past Comorians trained
overseas have frequently not returned. Agreement would be reached at
Negotiations on a scheme to be prepared by the Comorian Government which
would ensure that the education costs of those who do not return are
reimbursed by their families.
8.        Senior CEFADER mnanagement would have the dual task of managing
their relevant technical departments and supervising their staff on the one
hand, and providing on-the-job training to their technical staff and
extension managers to CADER extension staff on the other. The operational
and training functions would be combined. It is thus essential that an
appropriate approach to training is developed. A three-week EDI course in
Rwanda on training for agricultural trainers and managers will take place
in February 1984, and is expected to be attended by five members of the
senior CEFADER management. It should provide them with a valuable tool for
developing a team approach to training.



- 67 -                         ANNEX 5
Table 1
Table 1
Land Use Potential on the Comoros Islands
Grande
Anjouan      Comore       Moheli       Total
Total Area (ha)                 42,400      102,500      21,100      166,000
Population in 1980             137,600      192,200      17,200      347,000
Density hab/Km2                    325           188         82          209
Land with Agricultural
Potential (ha)                19,930       63,675      12,930       96,535
Density hab/Km2                    690          302         133          359
Mixed Fooderops (ha)            13,435       27,685      10,095       51,215
Density hab/Km2
Foodcrop Land                  1,024          694         170          678
Perennial Crops (ha)             6,495       35,990       2,835       45,320
Non-Cultivable (ha)             21,325       37,450       7,895       66,670
(of which should be allocated
for reafforestation (ha)   (16,015)        (2,685)    (4,320)    (23,020)
Source: IRAT 'Les Terres Cultivables des Comores' M. Brouwers, E. Latrille,
G. Subreville, August 1977, and 1980 Population Census.



- 68 -                       ANNEX 5
Table 2
Table 2
Estimated Production, Yield, Area and Food
Value Per Hectare of the Main Crops, 1980 1/
Food Value per ha
Calories  Prot./
Production       Yield          Area    % of Land       /ha,   ha(Kg)
-(-tonST-        kg/ha           (ha)
Upland rice (paddy)    3,800       200-  400       12,500       31.6       630,000    14
Maize                    2,250     400-  500        5,000       12.6    1,665,000    45
Cassava                25,500   4,000-6,000         5,000       12.6    6,500,000    60
Cocoyam                 1,700   4,000-6,000           350        0.9    5,000,000    95
Yam                      2,500   4,000-6,000          500        1.3    5,000,000   100
Sweet Potato            4,500   2,500-3,000         1,500        3.8    2,750,000    63
Pigeon pea & legumes   3,450       300-  400       10,000       25.3    1,225,000    81
Banana                 33,000   6,000-8,000         4,700       11.9    6,300,000    63
39,550      100.0
Coconut            46,150,000*  30 nuts/tree   (30,000)+               (1,333,000)  (12)
Cloves                     871o     n/a             3,300
Ylang-ylang                 40O     n/a             2,900
Vanilla                    160o     n/a             2,490
if Production estimates are not provided for fruit trees, which are also of
considerable importance, especially the mango, breadfruit, Jackfruit, false sago,
Chinese guava and false raspberry.
* Number of nuts, assuming 1 nut yields 200 gms coconut flesh, total copra
production is 9,230 tons or .310 kgs/ha of copra.
+ Planting densities are usually below normal technical standards.
Source: CEFADER, mission estimates
Prot. - Proteins
o Figures given are exports in 1981; they do not necessarily give an accurate picture
of production in 1980, due to variations in stocks. Yield figures cannot be
provided for the same reason.



- 69 -
AN_EX 5
Table 3 &
Table 4
Table 3
Livestock Numbers and Production
(1980)
Product      Herd       Yield      Average      Offal %        Estimated
Size        x        Carcass    Of Carcass       Production
Weight        Weight         (Tons)
(kgs)
Beef         4i,730       11          90          20%          428 with offal
Mutton        2,950       15          12,5        20%           10  ) 60
Meat         22,000       25          10,0        20%           50  )
Poultry     49,000        50          0,9                       22
600
Source: CEFADER, Mission estimates.
Table 4
Forest Area, 1982
(ha)
Grande Comore      Aiouan       Moheli      Tota:L
Primary Forest              5,200            400       3,900        9,500
Secondary Forest            6,800          1,300                    8,100
Total                      12,000          1,700       3,900       17,600
=~~~~ .=t
Source: 'Activites forestieres dans le developpement rural' G. Fay and M.
Morel. FAO, 1982.



-70-                           ANNEX 5
Table 5
Table 5
Summary of Import Parity Prices (IPP)   1984 Constant Price
Financial Market Prices
1984          1989          1994                (1983)
Beef FOB Australia (US$ ton)  1/          2,740         2,590          2,610                  _
CIF Moroni (CFAF/ton)                 1,070,160    1,015,560    1,022,840
IPP/kg                                    1,360         1,290          1,300               (1,000)
(Poultry IPP)                            (1,220)       (1,160)       (1,170)                 (900)
(Mutton/Goat IPP)                        (1,495)       (1,420)       (1,430)               (1,100)
Milk/liter                                                o-             -                     1O
Eggsleach                                                  -             -                      75
Rice FOB Thailand US$/Ton  2/               329            407           423
(35X broKen)                                216           267            278
C&F Moroni (CFAF/ton)                    98,800       118,110        122,275                  -
IPP of Rice/kg                              130            150           155                  (145)
(Maize IPP)                                (169)         (158)          (164)                 (120)
(Cassava IPP)                               (48)           (56)          (58)              (45-50)
(Yams/Cocoyams IPP)                         (37)           (43)          (44)              (45-50)
(Bananas IPP)                               (41)           (39)          (40)              (40-45)
(Sweet Potatoes IPP)                        (37)          (43)           (44)              (45-50)
(Legumes/IPP)                               (37)          (43)           (44)                 (70)
Hardwood ClIF France US$ m3  3/             338            343           364_
CIF CFAF/m3                             123,000       125,000        132,000         (108-160,000)
Standing Wood (CFAF/m3)                  25,000        25,000         26,000
Petroleum (US$/BBL CIF Rotterdam)            27.4           30.8          37.2
CIF Kerosene CFAF/ton  4                137,590       151,790        179,090
Standing Fuelwood CFAF/m                  3,900         4,337          5,117                (5,000)
I/  Market prices of poultry and mcutton/goat are 10% less and more respectively than beef.  The
financial price of milk and eggs has been used in the economic calculations.
2/  IPP for foodcrops reflect retail prices of rice, since rural areas are food deficit areas.
Prices reflect the relative caloric values of the different foods to rice. Rice has 3.5 cals/
gm., maize 3.7; cassava 1.3; yams, cocoyams, sweet potatoes 1; and bananas 0.9; and legumes 3.5.
3/  Ratio of sawnwood to standing wood is 1:5.
4/  Kerosene price is 40% higher than crude petroleum price:  7.9 barrels/ton.  7 m3 of wood = 2,800
kgs wood = 1 ton of kerosene. 5 m3 of standing fuelwood = I m3 of marketed fuelwood. Therefore
kerosene equivalent of marketed fuelwood in tons is 1:35 tons.
5/  Prices are based on projected import parity prices expressed in constant 1984 dollars
-   (World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts July 1983).  It is assumed that all increased production
will substitute for imports, since even the main food producing areas have a substantial food
deficit. The base for the foodcrops is rice, 35% broken, FOB Thailand, converted for the other
crops into their energy equivalent in rice. Thus the energy value of cassava is 1.3 cals/gm
compared with that of rice, 3.5 cals/gm, or a proportion of 0.37. Its economic value in 1984
would thus be the import parity price of rice for that year (CFAF 130/kg) x 0.37, i.e. CFAF
48/kg. Financial price ratios for the different foodcrops in Comoros correspond quite closely
to their food energy ratios. The base for livestock is Australian meat FOB, with an adjustment
upwards of 10% more for goat and lamb and downwards 10% for poultry. These prices correspond
quite closely to financial prices. For sawnwood, the import parity price of Malaysian meranti
hardwood CIF French ports has been used. This price too corresponds quite closely to current
market prices for sawnwood. For fuelwood, prices are based on the import parity price of
kerosene. This price is substantially less than the retail price for wood: CFAF 25/kg.
However, the great bulk of fue:Lwood is gathered, not bought.



-71 -                           ANNEX 5
TabTie6
Table 6
Foodcrops: Productivity Increase Parameters
Yields (tons/ha)               Pverage Area per Farmer
Without new    With new                      (ha)
techniques    techniques        "Non-adopters"   "Adopters"
Maize                   0.45           0.9                0.096            0.18
Legumes                 0.35           0.7                0.19             0.19
Sweet Potatoes          2.75           3.5                0.03             0.03
Manioc                  5.0            6.25               0.1              0.1
Taro/Yas                                                  0.02             0.02
Banana                  7.0            8.75               0.09             0.09
Rice                    0.3            0.3                0.24             0.12
Area for family remains the same, except that 'adopting' families double
their maize area and halve their rice area.
Number of Families Adopting New Techniques
PY 1 1/               900            PY 7           15,300
PY 2                2,700            PY 8           18,000
PY3                 4,500            PY 9           20,700
PY 4                7,200            PY 10          23,400
PY 5                9,900            PY 11          26,000
PY 6               12,600
No. of families adopting by PY 11 is equivalent to 2,400 per CADER c,r 240
per extension worker.
1/ PY = ProJect Year.



- 72 -                          ANNEX 5
Table 7
Page I
Table 7
Livestock Productivity Increase Parameters
(with Project: Percent)
(a)                                       PY °       PY 5    PY 10    PY 15
Cattle
Calving rate                              50          60        65        65
Calf mortality rate (0-l year)            35           25       20        20
Youngster mortality rate (1-4 years)   10               8         7         6
Adult mortality rate                        5           3         2         2
Offtake rate                              10-11        14       15        15
Herd growth rate                           0 or (-)    1          1         0
Total herd productivity                    10-11      15        16        15
Sheep
Lambing rate                               80         100      110       110
Lamb mortality                            40           25       20        20
Adult mortality                             8           6         5         5
Offtake rate                               15          25       30        35
Herd growth rate                           (-)          2         2        0
Total herd productivity                  (15)          27       32        35
Goat
Kidding rate                              90         120       130       140
Kid mortality                             40           25       20        20
Adult mortality                             5           3         2         2
Offtake rate                              25          35        40        45
Herd growth rate                            0           5         2        0
Total herd productivity                   25          40        42        45
It is assumed that 30  of herds would benefit from the services in PY5, 40%
in PY10 and 50% in PY15. These parameters are equivalent to increases in
production as follows:



-73 -                           Annex 5
Table 7
Page 2
Quantity of expected incremental production
(b)                                       PY 5       Year 10   Year 15
1.  Increase in meat and offal
equivalent (tons)
Beef                                      40.5        78.8      102.7
Mutton                                     2.25        4.8        8
Goat meat                                  8.9        14.4       25
2.  Incremental Herd Growth 1/
(numbers)
Cattle                                   315       1,250      2,085
Sheep                                    45          180        295
Goats                                    825       2,815      3,850
3.  Incremental milk production
(tons)                                  200         480      1,000
4.  Incremental chicken production 2/
(tons)                                  128          153        178
5.  Incremental egg production 2/
('0U)                                3,500       4,000      4,500
1/  Increase of herds numbers after sales and family consumption with
Project, less situation without Project considered as stable.
2/  See (c) for poultry production parameters.



- 74 -
ANNEX 5
Table 7
Page 3
Poultry Farming Note
(c)       With regard to poultry production, possible increases are limited
by the two following main factcrs:
(i)  with regard to commercial poultry farming:
(a) the production capacity of fodder processing equipment. It
is expectedi that the CEFADER managed processing plants in
Dache and Anjouan would produce some 1,200 tons of poultry
fodder per annum, covering about 50 to 60% of the demand,
when operations are rationalized. These quantities would
allow for the production of some 100 to 120 tons of chicken
and 2.5 to 3 million eggs annually; and
(b) the market absorption capacity which depends on demand and
Prices. The improvement of poultry raising techniques and
the increase in production are expected to reduce the prices
of products and thus to boost the demand, so that it is
estimated that an additional production of 100 tons of
chicken meat and 3 million eggs per year would not exceed
market possibilities. It is expected that 50% of these
objectives would be reached by PY 3 and 100% at Project
completion.
(ii)   with regard to traditional poultry farming in the rural areas,
the Project activities would cover 30% of the village by the end
of the Project. In those villages where health and genetic
improvements themes would have been adopted, production outcome
is expected to i'acrease fourfold during the Project period.
Total production in ComorGs would therefore increase from the
present estimated level of 23 tons of meat and 0.5 million eggs
to some 50 tons of chicken and one million eggs by PY 5, 75 tons
of meat and 1.5 million eggs by year 10 and 100 tons of meat and
two million eggs by year 1i.
(a) It is assumed that the net value of increased poultry
production, after costs of all production inputs, is 25% of
the gross value.



ANNEX 5
Table 8
Page 1
Table 8
Forestry: Production Increase Parameters
(a) Management of Maoueni, La Grille and Kartala Forests
Project Year       Sawnwood and poles m3              Firewood
Maoueni     La Grille,       Maoueni      La Grille,
Kartala                      Kartala
2
3            4,000                         1,000         1,250
4            4,000           500           1,000         1,500
5            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
6            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
7            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
8            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
9            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
10            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
11            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
12            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
13            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
14            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
15            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
16            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
17            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
18            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
19            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
20            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
21            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
22            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
23            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
24            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
25            4,000         1,500           1,000         2,750
Assumptions:
(a)   Maoueni.  Present growth rates are estimated at 10 m3/ha/year.
Total standing wood from the trees, currently 20 years old, is
100,000 m3 over the 500 ha. It is estimated that if properly
managed, an annual cutting of 5,000 m3 would be equivalent to the
annual growth rate. The volume of standing trees would be the
same as at present.
(b)   La Grille, Kartala.  The public forests only (La Grille, 3,000
ha) and Kartala (2,000 ha) are considered. Mainagement glans
would permit controlled exploitation from Year 4 s500 m  p.a.)
for La Grille and Year 5 for the Kartala (1,000 m p.a.).



- 76                                  ANNEX 5
Table 8
Page 2
(1) Tree Planting: 'Uncultivated Area
Plantings             ucena                  Forage Crops                      Eucalyptus
Zan abandoned    Fireo     (on Savannh   Fireood    (on brushland)  Poles   Firemod
land)      Produrtion   Land)
(ha)         (n%l         (ha)         (M%)         (ha)          (~)        (e
PY 1           20                            0                       30
PY 2           20                           50                       30
PY 3           20                           50                       30
PY  4          20                          100                       80
PY  5          20                          200                       80
PY 6           20                          200                      100
PY 7           20                          200                      100
PY 8           20                          200                      100
PY 9           20             640          200                      100
PF 10          20             640                                   100
PY 11          20             640                                   100
PY 12          20             640                     1,200         100
FY 13          20           1,280                     1,200         100
FY 14          20           1,280                     2,400         100
PY 15          20           1,280                     4,800         100
PY 16          20           1,28)                     4,800         100
PY 17          20           1,280                     4,800         100          2,400     1,200
PY 18          20           1,289                     4,800         100          2,400     1,200
FY 19          20           1,280                     4,800         100          2,400     1,200
PY 20          20           1,2N)                     6,000         100          6,400     3,200
FY 21          20           1,280                     1,200         100          6,400     3,600
FY 22          20           1,280                     2,400         100          8,000     4,400
PY 23          20           1,280                     4,80          100          8,000    4,400
PY 24          20           1,280                     4,800         100          8,000     5,000
PY 25          20           1,280                     4,800         100          8,000    5,000
Ntes:   Firewod would be harvested through triming from 8 years; yield 4 m3/ha/year.
Forage trees wold also yield 2,500 kgs dry/forage matter/ha/year.
Eucalyptus wuld be cut at 16 years; production wold be 7.5 m3/ha/year; after 4 years it would
be thinned. Yield wuld then be 13 mr'/ha/year. Producticn would be 2/3 poles and quality
wood, and 1/3 firmood.



-77 -                          ANNEX 5
Table-E
Page 3
(c) Farm Forestry: Cultivated Areas
Project Year            Fruit Trees                 Forage/Forest Trees
(ha)    Firewood Production    (ha)    Firewood Production
(m3)                            (ms)
PY  1         50                               50
PY  2        100                              100
PY  3        100                              100
PY  4        125                              125
PY  5        125                              125               50
PY  6        125                              125              150
PY  7        125                              125              250
PY  8        125                              125              375
PY  9        125               50             125              500
PY 10                         150                              625
PY 11                         250                              750
PY 12                         375                              875
PY 13                         500                            1,000
PY 14                         625                            1,000
PY 15                         750                            1,000
PY 16                         875                            1,000
PY 17                       1,000                            1,000
PY 18                       1,000                            1,000
PY 19                       1,000                            1,000
PY 20                       1,000                            1,000
PY 21                       1,000                            1,000
PY 22                       1,000                            1,000
PY 23                       1,000                            1,000
PY 24                       1,000                            1,000
PY 25                       1,000                            1,000
Notes:    Fruit production is not estimated.  Firewood production from
fruit trees would be 1 m3/ha/year; production from the
forage/forest trees would be 1 m3/ha/year of firewood anti 2,000
kg/ha/year of dry forage matter.



- 78 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 1
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Project Preparation Facility
1,        Government requested a PPF of US4 0.472 milliorn (Table 1) to
cover:
(i)   the costs of continuing technical assistance currently financed
by other donors in order to ensure continuity with the proposed
project. This includes technical assistance in financial
management and accounting for the CEFADER (IDA Coconut Project);
the veterinarian heading the new livestock department (IFAD
preparation grant); and the future director of the
monitoring/planning unit (UNDP planning project);
(ii)   the cost of aerial photography, photo-interpretation and the
establishment of land use maps, under the supervision of the
director of the forestry/environment department;
(iii)   the cost of technical assistance to establish a program of
initial training for new staff, and training and supervision for
existing staff.
(iv)   the cost of auditing CEFADER accounts; this would comprise an
audit of the receipt and expenditure statement for 1983, and
would be completed as a condition of effectiveness.
2.        A PPF of US$475,000 was granted on December 22, 1983, subject to
Government agreeing to some minor changes in the presentation of the PPF
request documentation.



- 79 -                         Annex 6
Table I
Table 1
Costs of PPF Requested
Training and Supervision System                                     Ccst US$
Technical Assistance           4 months                              37,500
Vehicle and Maintenance                                               9,000
Training of Comorian Extension Workers                                3,000
Office Equipment                                                      3,000
52,500
Monitoring/Planning Department
Technical Assistance           6 months                              56,250
Consultant                     1 month                               14,500
Recruitment and Training of 5 Enumerators                             1,700
Office Equipment                                                      3,000
Vehicle and Maintenance                                               9,000
84,450
Livestock Activities
Technical Assistance           4 months                              37,500
Consultant                     1 month                               14,500
Local Salaries                                                        3,500
55,500
Financial Management: CEFADER
Technical Assistance           b months                              56,250
Audit                                                                20,000
76,250
Photo-Interpretation
Aerial Cover                                                        150,000
Technical Assistance           4 months                              37,500
Trainee                                                               1,000
Vehicle and Maintenance                                               9,000
Equipment                                                             3,000
Printing                                                              3,000
203,500
Total   472,200



- 80 -
ANNEX 7a
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
PROJECT YEAR    PG   i      PY1              PY2             IPY3 P__ 4                 |       p
CALENDAR YEAR        1984      1      1985             1986             1987            1988             1989
QUArTER             1     |      2|3  |  4                   1 |2: 3   4   1   2   3   4   1  2   3  412 3 4
COMPCtNENT                      !                        '             -                        -                            I
DATA COLLECTION/MONITORING
Technicol Assistance                       T          -         _      T     _I                       ; .                  I
Vehicles & Equipment   U    T                                                                             III i  2341  1   2
Trc8ning                      #    i      -                                       
ASSISTANCE CEFADER              i
Technical Assistance                   i  i      _          _             m  m
Audit                         j,     0                                                                                         1                                                  
Vehicle replacement           ||                                                          El
TRAINING & SUPERVISION                           7             m
Initial Training                        *|                                               |
Tochnicol Assistance                            I4
Equipme-n1                                                                          
In-service Trami ng                             -   mimr         m  m  i          m               mrI fI    .    mm
ASSISTANCE CADERs
East Zone CADE's                           |I;
Vehicles & Equipment                                     la     P                         isl 
1i                                                               I                           
Technical Assistance             j                                   U I                               -   -
LINESTOCK ACTIVITIES                                     I                             I   |
Technical Assistance          I                      m                                       I                       _
Training                                                                               m      m
Venicles &Eauipment            iEE t   tIJJ 1   rIIJ;            1       e         1      tl =1            J1 t 
Clvi Works                                            r= 
FORESTRY/LAND CONSERVATION                                                                     i
|ACTrMTIES                                        |               | |.                       
Land-Use Inventory                                               . |                                    m   m  .
Technical Assistcnce      |       r? I
Forestry Development. Maoueni,    F               Preparation      1     m   m   m   m |   Development         m   *
a DaGrille, Kartola                    II           ¢ 111   1   "  II a                       m       m
Tree Planting/Soil Conservation      i       j  |            m-  U )  r           m   m       m        m   m ,     m   -
______________ ,.~.                                                                  -. ________.                           m ..Li..
Key
AMMUM ImoFementcton
I E J iEl i Ptccurement. Tenderngn Aword. Preparation
3MM       Delivery
Construction
Word Bank-2564t2



O MOUROS
RURAL SER3VICES PRa1F.CT
Detailed Isrplesentation Schsdnile
Activitv Chart
Manitotrlg Pa=gUnit  FPPF                           PY I                              PY 2                            PY 3                          PY 4                       PY 5
- TA prorided for 6 sunths,      - Coenrian director departs      - Comrian director returns     - Technicians return from      - UN vollnteer departs,      - TA provides one msnth
- TA reviews ongoing             for training,                      from training,                training, ore asststs with     - TA provides 2 menths       assistance.
activities, prepares initial     - TA continues consolidation    - Technicians depart for         data analysis at CEFADER,      assistance with work         - Work program
consolidated work program        of work programs and              training,                      one supervises enumerators,    Program consolidation        consolidatin, monitoring,
and budget as condition of        badgets,                        - UN volunteer arrives to       - 2 more enurerators           and mrnitoring.              planning and data
project effectiveness,           - Begins identification and        assist enumerators,           recruited and trained by                                    collection activities
begins training of C(Fxrian      planrnng of special              - 4 enunerators recnrited       Director,                                                   proceed.
cGunterpart director.            moitoring studies,                and trained,                   - UN volunteer assists
- Recruits and trains 2 data    - Special nxeltoring studies    field techniciarn and
processors,                       undertaken,                   enusrerators with studies
- Recruits and trains 5         - Desiign and pilot testing     and data collection,
eniuserators                      of data collectimn exercise   - Conurian director designs
- Pocruits's  trainee           - Cornrian director             and supervises stludies,
techntcians.                      gradually takes over work     prepares mnnitortng, reports
programming and other         with TA.
operational work from TA.    - Comorian director
prepares work progrars with
TA,
- TA departs af ter 6
months.
Accouriting/Financiai
Managammat Unit
- TA provided for 6 mintlis,     - TA recruits and trains         - TA recruits and trains 2      - Tasks of PY 2                - TA departs, Caonrian       - Comorian staff
- TA prepares staterents of      project accountant, recruits   CAPFR accountants,                cortinues, with Comorian       staff irplements all        irplensnt all tasks with
expenditure for all              and trains CADER                 - Tasks of PY I continue,       accountant gradually            tasks, with 3 moths         3 months consultant
CEFAUER/CADER activities,        accountants,                     hit TA gradully develops       taking over TA tasks.           consultant assistane,.       assistance.
- TA anralyzes activities by     - Provides in-service            analysis accounting
souroe of financing,             training to CEFA)ER and         procedures.
- TA prepares, as a condition    CAPER accountants,
ot effectiveness, a              - Prepares project accounts,
conisolidated budget for all     - Maintains revolving fund                                                                                                                                      LI
CkFAPER/CADER activities.        accoLnts,
- Prepares o-,,solidated
budgets for all
CEFADER/CADER activities ly
soiree of financing.



PPE'                            PYI                               FfY 2                            fY 3                        PY 4                        FY 5
Traiiuswgo
UJnit
- TA provided for 4 ronths,      Workinig with Ikunan Resourcas    - Training and supervision     - Training aird supervision    - Training amid              - Training and
- TA works with liun              director arni in conrection     system, mrk program,            system, work prograsa          supervision system, work    supervision system, work
Resources director to            with technical specialists       continued.                      continued.                     prograss continued.          programs continued.
crmpile, as a oendition oft                                       - Training for 19               - Training for 14              - Training for 1()           - Training for 10
effectiveness                     - Fortoightly training and      additional extension agents    additional staff provided,    additional staff               additional staff.
supervision system is           provided.                       - TA deplts; provides 2        provided.                    - 2 nsxiths
- Inventory oif existing posts    imptemented for existing                                        montis assistanoe to  ouman    - 2 mntths TA provided       consultancris provided.
ard staff available for           staff.                                                         Fisources director in           to Comrian director.
redeploymert and preparaticn     - Twice yearly in-service                                       organization of work
of an action plan for staff      training programs initiated,                                     programs and revision of
redeployment.                    - Feedbacdc from faruers ard                                     extension animals.
- Preparation of an extension     into research smintained.
urmual.                           - Initial training for 16
- Preparation of worTk program    staff provided.
tor existirg staff.              - Work programs for
extension staff prepared hy ,
CAIER director and
supervised IV TA and iumn n
Resources director.
Assistance CAIERS
(erations
- vehicle replacerent for       - Contracts for                 - Completion and eqnuiprsnt    - Continued assistance       - Contiuied
existing CADERS,                constructim of F. Zone          of E. Zone CADERs,             in operating costs,          assistance in
- tJN volunteer assistance to    CAlERs,                        - Recruitrent of 10            - Recrilitont of 14          operating costs,
lNCt)F CADER direction,         - Recrmitment of Il            additional extension staff,    additional ext-ncian         - LlN volunteers depart
- Asststance in operating       additional extenision staff,    - Continued assistance in      workers.                     from F. Zone CAOERs,
costs of existing and tTNCDF    - Continued assistance in       operating costs,                                            - Recnritment of
CA1)Rs,                         operating costs.                - tin volinteers depart fron                                final extension
- Appointment of directors                                      LNC)F CAllERs, arrive at E.                                 workers.
to E. Zoine CADERS,                                             Zone CADERs.
- Recruitmsnt of new CAPER
accountarnts.
mrs 
r1 r
x



Livestock Activities                 WPF                                EY I                             PY 2                          FY 3                         PY 4                         PY 5
TA coipletes preparation          - 2 candidates depart for       - Additional seterinarY         - Additional veterinary        - Veterinary nurses          - Veterinary nurses
activities, including:            overseas veterinary training,  nurses depart for training,    mturses depart for               return,                      retum,
- selected veterinary nurses    - program of animls health     training,                       - program of alsirl          - program of anitRnI
- an action plan for livestck     depart for overseas training,   and production activities       - program of aniusl health     heaLth and production        health and production
activities as a andition of       - 2 pouLtry techniciars and 3  continues, with trials and       and production activities      activities cnntinues,        activities continues,
project effectiveness,            poultry technical agents        studies.                        continues, with trials ard     with trials and studies.   with trials ard studies,
- a management plan for the       depart for overseas training,   - Sanitary legislation          studies.                                                    - Conorian director
poultry and foud unit as a        - technical assistance in       amended.                                                                                    returns from training.
condition of project              field processing, caopletion                                                                                                - TA departs at end of
effectiveness,                    of poltry infrastructure,                                                                                                   period.
- identifies suitable             - livestock pens constructed
candidates for overseas           and pilot breeding stock
trainiing as director and         purchased,
candidates for aJrsiing           - veterinary equipsuent for 6
training.                         CAlERs purchased,
- 3 water points, 3
butchering slabs
constructed/rehabiiitated on
a pilot basis,
- vehiicles provided for
existing livestock staff,
- implementation of sinple
aninul ieaith and prodiction
extension progran in all
CADERs.
Porestry /Iulamd
&ranservation Activities
- TA arrives, supervises          - Conrian director departs      - Studies and trials, tree      - Studies and triaLs and       - Studies, trials and        - Studies, triaLs and
aerial photography ard land       for trainirg,                   planting/land conservation      tree planting/]Iand             tree planting/land          tree planting continues,
use napping,                      - 2 technicians depart for      activities continued,           conservation activities         conservation activities     - Management plans
- Prepare action plan for         wverseas training after         - Exploitation of Maoueni       continued,                     cmtione,                     irplenented,
Land conservation, as a           workirg with TA,                forest begins; management       - One technician returns,      - Senior technician          - Crowrian director
condition of effectiveness,       - 3 land conservation/tree      plans drawn up for La           one leaves for training,        retuns,                     returns.
- Identifies Trainee              planting agenits recruited,     Grille aid Kartala forests,    - 3 land conservation/tree       - Final recnuitment of      - TA departs at end ol
director.                         - developrent plan, including   - Review of forestry            planting agents recruited,      land conservation/tree      period.
market and technical studies,  legislation conducted and        - legislation for private      planting agents,
prepared for Maoueni forest,   asinhrents proposed,             forest lands amended.          - Managenent progrars
- lnitial tree                  - Fecruitmevt of 4 land                                        for Maoueni, La Grille                                      52'
planting/conservation           conservation/tree planting                                     and Kartala
activities in existing          agents.                                                        implemented.
CAlERs,                                                                                                                                                      0'
- TriaLs aid studies begin,
- Recruitnnt and training of
nursery aents egirs.



CHART I- SUMMARY Ot PkINCIPAI. PROJECTS IN THE RG (AL SECTOR (ONGOING Hl' UNDER PREPAIATION)
Executing   implementati-on                                Financing
Project Same                       Agecy            Period           Location        )rganization         Aox it                   Project Ohjectices                                      Consents
1.  Maize project (Phase 1)                     CIFADUK             19/8--82       Grnde             EDF              CfA 532 m         Decelop-eot of matze for animal snd             4, 1   tfurres in orloiram.  Mot- tmaize
Com-re                             (USS I .6n)      human        ooo unr  In (sff:abstI totlon of taIe o   grfeen; so-me sold  tol LIs p-itt
snlue fIn  rict) coteosion  prrgrum for         farners.
4,000 far-sers cItioarIg  0.25 En.
mitre atCh.
2.  Maize project (Phase 11)                    CEFADER             1983-86        GUtoode           EDIl              ECI I.Sm         DCo-lpecot act oities for other fond            Not yet started.
CEace 6                            (USSI.5m)        cr&ops; extension, tra-inin, seed
the other                                                              tllipilcatioc;  ine oF credit for
iqlan.ds.                                           nalt ope-ratrirn.
3.  Vanilla/iCloe project                       CEFAl)R             1978-82        AII islands       AOlB               7.6 m           lstxhiishment of farms for                      Inaction; oljectioes aord nclions to he
trioctio of yari 1   vi ons ane    d noon       redefined.
seediling-; lo-temno  in banana
Prodxctinn thro-gh  rep i-tntig of
slhots; coc,str-rtion of hangxrs for
nan lla prrcessing.
4.  Rural  -enelopmn-t Project (Phase I)   C:FAiER                  1i79-82          ll isl-ands.   UNhlP              $2. 5 m          leoelopTmcnt of  ur.ra     t esrension network    Started wel1.
in C-oros throitgh initial
establishment of fine CADERs  nd the
CEi'AI)ER 
5.  Rral Developme,t Project                    CFADlER             1983-86        ALL i.laurds      UNI)P             52 m             Cor,tlnored nolrport to CAOIFR/C.PFAl)ER        Assistance mostly confined  to tecirutro I
(Phase 11)                                                                                                                         rai-l ontension network.                        assista-ce becau,se of budgetary
romiti clts.
o.   Coconut rehabilitation and Rodent          CEFAIDEK            1980-85        All islands.   IDA                  $5.2 m           Replantrig of -isting trees by                  Started welt.  Additional component is
crntrol.                                                                                                                          iRproved vorieties, elimioatino of                creation of a stabilieatlon  fund for a11
rodentts responsible for losses of 307          export crops to neatralioe world price
of prodoct LEn; imp easement 1o c-pra           floct,ratlons and  -nuitain producer
processing.                                     incentines
1.  Snil protection and Eroston control CRFADER                      1980--83      Anjoa--           EDF              ECU 0.65 m        Pilot project on 2(0 ha. at                     Being completed.
(Phase 1).                                                                                                        (11S10.9 m)     N>ior-akele.
8.  Soil protection & erosion control  C(FPAlER                     NA              An jo-n          EUF               NA               Prohahly In Sira area.                          To be negotiated.
(Phase 11).
9.  Pouitry project.                          CF.AI)ER               1979-85        Al1 inlalnds.   UNICEF,            $ 0.2 n          Annual prodoction of 300 torn  nf                DSfficoltins Is securing po,ltry feed.
REDF,UNIP        $ 0.4 m           poultry neat and 4 miiiino eggs.
S 1.7 m
10. integrated rural deoelopeent.             CEFADER               1981-84        All islands       WFP               $ 7 o            Food for work for soil protection,              Progre-snsg well.  WFP ratlons hane
erosion control, seed production, tree    hecome pritcipal sti-l-ios to r-tal
replanting, trtal road  inpro-erent &           acrities  in none  r-as.
maintenance, water cisterns, banana
replanting, assistance  to extension                                                             Ti
and traintng.                                                                                     ni 5
11. Artinanal Fisheries                       SODEPEC               1982-84       ANl islands.   ADB                   ECU 4.2 m        Impro-eneot of artisanal fishing and            Iriplenmotation  delays.                          -
(USS4.4 m)       fish marketing; training of personnel;
40% increase In ftish production.
12. Re.earch H Development                    CgFAl)ER              1983-85        All islan,ds.   FAC                FF 2.8 m          Develo.peet of tEcrhal pachages fur             Technicl oasistance  rined Jannary
(ES$ D.5 n)    Paris  sYstems.  Fstahllihent of an1983r
doc,,omtnAton cestre.



CHART 1- SU4MAKY OF PRINCIPAl PROJECTS IN THE RURAL SECTOR (ONCO(ING ANU UNDER PREPARATION)
Executing  Implementation                                 Ftnancing
Pro1ect Name                       Agency          Period           Location       Organization        Amount                    Project Ohbectives                                    Comments
13. Kice productton 6 integrated             CEFAOEK              1983-84        Mohelt           Catsse           PF 5 m            10)0 ha. of trrigated rice; improvement   Follow-up to FAO pliot project.
development                                                                                   Centrale         (U150.8 m)       of upland rice cultivaton; developmenit
of the islands.
14. Integrated rural development             CEFADER               1983-87      Anjouan           ADB              US$ 10 m          Extension and tncreased crop                   Not Yet started.
Nioumakele - Tsembehou                                                                                                          produciton for 5.000 farm familtes En
2 CADERS, reforestation, infrastructure
imnprovement.
15. Assistance to rural development         CEFADER               1983-8b        Grande           UNCDF            $ 1.2 m           Financing of capital construction              Nnt yet started (archttectural drawings
Comore 6                                           costs only of 4 CADERS provision               under preparation).
Anjouan                                            of offtce space for CEFADER.
lb. Agricultural Credit.                    CEFADER               1982-dS        All islands.   UNCUF              5 0.5 m           Credit up to CFA 300.000 per                   Not yet started.
beneficiary for fooderops, market
gardening, pouiltry, farm equipment and
construction materials to farmers
participating in extension. No
interest, no security required.
17. Strengthening of rural services          CEFAUER               1984-8i       All Islands       IDA              $ 8 m            Creatton of 3 servtces; data                   Under preparation
IFAD                              collection & project monttortng;
livestock; forestry & associated
production acttvittes; estahlishment
of 2 new CADERS on E. 'Irande Comore.
Sources; CEFADER, ADB, EDF, UNDCF, FAC, Caisse Centrale, IFAD, IDA.                                                                                                                                                              r |



- 86 -                         ANNEX 9
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
1.        Detailed Project Costs by Component.
2.        Training/Extension Program.
3.        Livestock Program.
4.        Forestry Soil Conservation Program.
Sectoral background to the project is discussed in the Comoros -
Agricultural Sector Memorandum dated April 11, 1983.



432W5A 4>320                                                                   43-25                                am 4             4'4
Bangoi Kou,s                                  TAN. 7AN  A,
St. Ben,oitR_-~>/\, MrniAjoa
MoEebi
X - ;   JOU'T;a.                            ) _   8 ALAW .  MOZAMA  C1UE          COAAOROS  Mayotte
N'D.zaaue            -1                                r'
-ab30'  tV       t             X               i 0 f       f   i)                        ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  L     /      4  '
P125'                                                                                                  1-5
52,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
51 |                   ' f2' :  \  <  )   &     COMOROS
9130                                g 3v                     '1  ;1                80    00ud                                2,-      00 Cn2,Is[n ebr5 ,35H 
sSO°~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                            48'__Ud C  so
'5                                                            30'             40'             44X - ,s4 '
COMOROS
GRANDE COMORE
LAND POTENTIAL
AGRICULTURAL POTENT2A,
fevan                                                                               Fod C        o- C-1, C-p, 27      H.,UOn
T-5 Os-ps 135,090 H. 
''Is, os, molloe7s                      I
oE-2d   o             6d d.s
-   Eo song   ~       i,.,, ~it~U
UNd-r Conon-s,
E-nh Roads
NTsoodis                                                                                          OMen Arnoorn
|2'40'                                                                                                                       A      CAD.R  H-d-o-rr                     P 4eo0r
* CFADER  .d....
U                ~~~~~CADERZ 3odor,-
MORONI   ,1                                                                                                                       -, oN T!ed cr. b 1
Tsangadioo
211 45-
Anoboini ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ o.
umFosboun)
____._ __ __ ._ _  _, _ _  _           _ a  _0  K - -:_   .'1be,,i                                               Si'_bou  s.
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~- 20 






lrTRI 1695y
COAAOROS                                                                                                                                                  -k 903
ANJOUAN
LAND POTENTIAL 
AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL:                                 Po-nd Rood,:
(After improvements erosio
Food Crap, or Cosir Crops (13,435 Hr..)                 Un,der constrution-Jnrrr
TrCos(6",49  Ha.).... Planed
v  Natural Veg.tat-o (13,065 HoErtRod 
E.4itng Forests and Smrblaed (8,260 H.)            --   jes1
- Tooer VdI.lgs RRiriror
H.sig   v),15It)                               Ther .etoeletrc an,d Hydroele,rric                    I                                4oh.l
Cnus.in, motors                                      To.we Pf-n  - pulic and Proate
-  -hlyets, is, millimters                           A     CAGER Heoduwarter-.
2 Ctle, tomos                                              CADER Boun,daries
r Airpor                                                                                             Ooe 
V   Port               ----  lutersatinoal Roundores                          y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pt~
no  ,iO 0  4 ,ur r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    MU4AUD
ruin  0,,ro'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~~~~, ii,~~~~~Bo .
L,,V.ALAWI 'r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~.'
',--. ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ra,4C-
r LAAWtT  Il
it                                                          r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.ur'
-MAD)ArACAR                                                                                                                                                          R
0  2                              3~~~~~~    10
to'                                                                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETEROS
4)                 3'                                    2   44420~                           orc             424'440






IBRD  169W
r4A0                                                       43°45'                                                      4350'                                                       MARCH  982
COMOROS
MOHELI
LAND POTENTIAL
-JtIi- , i                                                                                                                     AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL  (After           4)      C teies, To,.-
-12°15'                                                                         >- f S> /t  Improvements: Erosion Control,                                                                       ,         Paved Roads           12ii
122                                                                                                                          [11 =     \ UMESON I ~ V ]2  l  erracrng, Stone Removal)rt
Food Crops or Cash Crops (10,095 Ha )  --
Tree Crops (2,835 Ho.)                           Av,port
Natural Vegetation (4,570 Ha.) 
-  Rivers
7;  Existing Forests, Scrubland (3,325 Ha.
Towvs,Villages, Roads, Airport,    -     A       CADEP Hedouacirter
A  ii,    chMBONI                                                                               Existing Use (275 Ha.)
Bangoma                                  <-41-   Contours, in meters
<   M'90uzi loo  @                                                                                43¢soU                                                        ;5   ..~~~~Do iez
j                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
MILES
12'20'12-
Mognougnilt^,   <V   4      X       V         VBougol.                        >  tS   0%         TAN Z A N I A              .>  I       1  '
Nio urachou-lm                                                                                                                                            M'ChSco I.,
rhfs~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~ ~~~~~~mi m'p                                     <0-\t behm pr m b h   MB an   r  nuzil.orf_covunC ri    _(    
Magnougnilf                                 MEosBiugo 1.ir36Bosgo4. 
Oune Pprhnref  damo >aln us amd -h omZ. mttIm h$mpdOlu                                                                   ift!       
andzi t.            In3s                                                                              Grao/:  uGrond
N~~~~~~J  Ouenefou  Chondzi).~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Moon 
zoni                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mohieli-~  lAnioucan2
CcnzonI I,  ~ ~     ~                                           -  1  A4iv/ci ini            '- /                            Moron, %C2omore U 
72'25                                                                                                          125OZAM~t~vBIQU                                         ,COMOROS 'My e
__3__d-._                                 e A Q"IIMADA.cASCAKJ
430,0'                                                                                          3e 0        100      200 M, 4es






