Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3726-COM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 4.8 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
April 11, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (CF)
(The CF is fully convertible into the French franc at 50 CF = I FF).
Calendar 1983                          February 1984
Unit            =  l'omorian Franc (CF) =   Comorian Franc (CF)
US$1.00         =  CF 390                =   CF 424
CF 1,000        =  IUS$2.56              =   US$2.36
CF 1,000,000    =  US$2,564              =   US$2,358
(The Staff Appraisal] Report is based on US$1.00 = 364 CF).
MEASURES
i meter (m)                =   3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)        =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)  =   0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB       = African Development Bank
CADER      = Centre d'Appui au Developpement Rural
CEFADER    = Centre federal d'appui au developpement rural
EDF        = European Development Fund
FAC        = Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IFAD       = International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRAT       = Institut de Recherche d'Agronomie Tropicale
PPF        = Project Preparation Facility
UNCDF      = United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNECA      = United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
UNDP       = United Nations Development Program
WFP        = World Food Program
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
Beneficiary:        CEFADER (Federal Center for Support to Rural Development)
Amount:             SDR 4.8 million (US$5.04 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Colender:           International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
Project
Description:      The objective of the proposed project is to reorganize the
CEFADER/CADER so that it functions effectively as the network
for rural services. The project would address the problems
of recurrent cost financing and inadequate budgetary
procedures, shortage of skilled manpower and need for better
donor coordination in the sector. It would improve rural
extension services, training and supervision of staff,
monitoring and planning, and budgetary management and
finance. It would strengthen animal health, forestry and
land conservation programs and would complete two new CADERs
and support existing CADER operations.
Benefits & Risks:  By strengthening the rural services network, the project
would provide for a more systematic approach to extension,
field trials and development of technical packages, which
should lead to increased foodcrop, livestock and fuelwood
production and better forestry management. Increased food
and meat production would result in import savings. An
additional benefit would be the improved nutritional level of
the rural population. The project would also promote more
efficient use of resources provided by external donors.
The main risks to project implementation include limited
Comorian skilled manpower, for which the project would
provide substantial training programs for national staff and
ensure that a substantial portion of technical assistants'
work is devoted to in-service training; and Government lack
of funds for recurrent financing, for which the project would
establish proper budgetary procedures and ensure a gradually
increasing contribution by Government to rural services
recurrent costs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign    Total
------ (US$ million) -----
Techn:.cal Assistance                       0.64        2.56       3.20
Overseas Training                           0.04        0.55       0.59
Vehicles, Imported Livestock
and Equipment                           0.08         0.69       0.77
Civil Works                                 0.46        0.16       0.62
Agricultural and Veterinary Inputs          0.13        0.36       0.49
In-service Training
and Operating Costs                      1.08        0.23       1.31
Subtotal, Base Costs                     2.43        4.55       6.98
Physical Contingencies                      0.24        0.46       0.70
Price Contingencies                         0.74        0.88       1.62
Total Project Costs                         3.41        5.89       9.30
Financ:ing Plan:
Local      Foreign    Total
--------(US$ million)-----
Government                                  0.93         -         0.93
IDA                                         1.60        3.44       5.04
IFAD                                        0.88        2.45       3.33
Total                                    3.41        5.89       9.30
Estimated Disbursements:         IDA FY   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
-------------(US$ million)------------
Annual                                 0.96   1.08   0.90   0.84   0.70   0.56
CumTulative                            0.96   2.04   2.94   3.78   4.48   5.04
Rate of Return: n.a.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4775-COM, dated March 26, 1984
Map: IBRD 12893R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Federal Islamic Republic of the
Comorosl/ for an amount of SDR 4.8 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to help finance a rural services project. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would participate
*           with US$3.3 million in parallel co-financing on standard IFAD terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background and Economic Structure
2.        An updating economic memorandum based on the findings of an
economic mission to the Comoros in September 1982 was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1983.   The following summary is based on the
findings of that mission as updated by a Public Investment Program Review
mission which visited the country in December 1983.
3.        The Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros, with a GNP per
capita estimated at about US$270 in 1983, is considered one of the least
developed countries in the world. Its population is 375,000 with a density
of 225 inhabitants per square kilometer, among the highest in Eastern
Africa, and a ratio of population to arable land of 800 inhabitants per
square kilometer.
4.        The economy of the Comoros is dominated by its physical and
structural characteristics -- a small archipelago isolated from the major
trade routes lacking both natural resources and skilled manpower and
confronted with a serious imbalance in the geographical distribution of its
population as well as a high demographic growth rate. Agriculture is the
main productive activity; however, the country has become increasingly
dependent upon food imports, which account for about 40 percent of food
consumption. During and after the colonial period, the country has lived
well beyond its means, relying heavily on external assistance. The Comoros
is a member of the CFA Franc zone.
1/ The Comoros archipelago consists of four islands: Grande Comore,
Anjouan, Moheli and Mayotte. The Government of the Federal Islamic
Republic of the Comoros has effective control over the first three
islands. Mayotte is still under French administration. References to the
Comoros in this report exclude Mayotte.



- 2 -
5         Agricultural land is scarce. Of the total land area of 1,660
square kilometers, only 50,000 ha, much of which are steeply sloping, are
suitable for annual cropping. A ratio of one hectare of arable land per
eight inhabitants is hardly enough to permit food self-sufficiency. The
potential for traditional in-shore fishing is limited because of the
narrowness of the continental shelf and often unfavorable weather
conditions limiting the number of fishing days for traditional boats.
Deep-sea fishing potential is estimated at about 12,000 tons annually, but
is yet unexploited because of the lack of appropriate infrastructure.
There are no known mineral resources, and energy resources are limited to
the hydro-electric sites of Moheli and Anjouan whose potential is estimated
at a modest 20 MW and 500 KW respectively. Geothermal potential is being
assessed. Potential for tourism exists, although it is also unexploited.
6.        Non-agricultural activities in the Comoros are limited.  The very
small processing and manufacturing sector consists mainly of ylang-ylang
distillation into perfume essences, a small soft drink bottling plant, a
sawmill and a soap factory. The social sectors, notably education and
health, were adversely affected by the econonic difficulties of the country
during the 1975-78 period, but recently the situation has started to
improve, partly on account cf substantial external assistance. Education
hadl already started expanding rapidly before independence, and by 1978-79
enrollments in primary schools exceeded 80 percent of the population in the
7-12 age group. However, the system lacks relevance to the Comoros' needs
and the quality of education remains poor.  There is also a severe shortage
of qualified Comorian teaching staff and a large number of teachers are
being provided by the Arab League and France.
7.        Population is growing rapidly, and population pressure on land is
al:-eady a serious problem. The average annual rate of growth of the
population since the 1966 census was 3.6 percent, resulting from a 2.6
percent natural growth rate compounded by an influx of immigrants, mainly
refugees who fled Madagascar in 1977. The problem has become more acute
since independence, because Madagascar, which was a natural emigration
outlet for Comorians, no longer welcomes immigrants from Comoros. The
present rate of growth of the population is unknown but is probably higher
than 2.6 percent, given the absence of fertility reduction measures and the
likely decrease in mortality in recent years. Population density varies
among the three islands, with 88 inhabitants per square kilometer on
Moheli, 203 on Grande Comore and 350 on Anjouan.  Health conditions are
poor; life expectancy is only 46 years and the child mortality rate is
high. Malnutrition is widespread and malaria is hyperendemic in many
areas .
8.        The lack of adequate communication and transport infrastructure
is a major bottleneck for a country such as the Comoros because of its
isclation and topography. The lack of adequate maritime infrastructure is
the most serious problem and there is very little inter-island shipping.
Recent heavy investments in road infrastructure have resulted in a good
circular network on each island, sometimes exceeding needs. Road
maintenance is both insuffic:ient and inefficient despite a high level of
foreign assistance. Air transport infrastructure is relatively



- 3 -
satisfactory and air transportation is the Taajor mode for both passenger
traffic and shipment of high value export crops (vanilla and perfume
essences).
9D        The country suffers from an acute shortage of trained personnel
in agriculture, health, public administration and industry. The lack of
skilled manpower is compounded by the unattractive conditions found on the
islands by graduates returning from their studies abroad (lack of
opportunities and housing, low wages). Most available jobs are in the
public sector, but poor public management and insufficient budgetary
resources often create delays in salary payments, sometimes up to six
months, thus limiting the level of commitment and motivation of civil
servants. As a result, turnover is extremely high and many trained
Comorians elect to stay or to return abroad.
10.       In 1982, CDP amounted to about CF 46 billion (US$131 million
equivalent). The GDP growth rate has been estimated at 6.5 percent over
the 1979-81 period, or 3 percent per capita. The rate of fixed investment
is high, averaging 24 percent of GDP over the 1979-82 period, although it
does not follow any trend, due to the relative lumpiness of the projects.
This figure compares to a low and decreasing rate of domestic resources
mobilization (13 percent of GDP in 1979, 5 percent in 1982), averaging 8
percent of GDP over the period; the resource gap has therefore widened,
from 13 to 24 percent of GDP. While public consumption has been maintained
at about 20 percent of GDP, total consumption has increased from 87 to 96
percent of GDP.
11.       Agriculture continues to provide the livelihood for 80 percent of
the population and accounts for all export earnings and 40 percent of the
GDP.  Manufacturing activities, mostly agro-processing, are poorly
developed, representing less than 5 percent of the GDP, because of the
remoteness of the country, the lack of capital, the low level of skills and
poor infrastructure. Services, dominated by trade and Government,
represent 40 percent of GDP, a share comparable to agriculture.
Construction represents 10 percent of GDP. Government expenditures are
heavily subsidized from external sources; trade and other services as well
as construction depend heavily on external financing of development
activities.
12.       Exports have averaged about 17 percent of GDP per year, with the
exception of 1980 when vanilla was stockpiled in an attempt to manipulate
market prices. In 1981 and 1982 the benefits of favorable prices for
vanilla and cloves, further boosted by an increase in the value of the US
dollar in which those commodities are priced, were offset by a decline in
the export volume of copra and perfume essences for which, moreover, prices
were unfavorable. The volume of imports reached 41 percent of GDP in 1982
and is mainly composed of food (one-third), energy (one-sixth), and
construction materials (one-tenth). The trade gap stands at 24 percent of
GDP in current prices and is widening. Net transfers and capital flows
averaged 20 percent of GDP, but were still insufficient to stop a very
rapid decline in reserves which stood at less than thirty days by the end



- 4-
of 1982. Debt service is minimal, at 3 percent of exports, due to the
cancellation of a part of the debt due to France in 1979, as well as the
concessional nature of the remaining debt.
13.       rentral Government revenues have averaged 11 percent of GDP in
recent years, with only a token contribution from direct taxes. The weak
performance in collection wqas due in part to poor tax administration which
is now improving with the centralization of tax collection and the
creation, with IMF assistance, of the General Tax Administration (AGI).
Revenues covered 24 percent of total expenditures and only 34 percent of
recurrent expenditures over the period 1979-82, while non-budgetary grants
have been increasing. Capital expenditures, which practically amount to
the overall deficit after grants, are totally financed through medium and
long--term borrowing. Until recently, this borrowing was on very favorable
terms, entailing a very low debt service. However, the recent borrowing
for the construction of the Mutsamudu port, which carries shorter
mal:urities and higher interest rates than are usual for Comoros, is likely
to bring too heavy a burden on public finances as early as 1986, as the
debt service ratio is projected to rise from 5 percent in 1982 to 18
percent in 1985, 30 percent in 1986, and 40 percent by 1990.
14.       Recent economic developments have been characterized by
some (seemingly) contradictory signals: rising agricultural output and
export recovery have been accompanied by rising food imports; an
amelioration of budgetary and fiscal procedures (see below) has been
accompanied by a deterioration in the savings rate; and an increase in
investments is linked with a severe threat to the country's ability to
service debt in the future. The first attempt at writing a Plan (para. 15)
has also revealed clearly the growing problem of local financing of
investments and operating expenditures. These developments underline the
weak control which the Government exercises over the economy. This lack of
control stems mainly from: the vulnerability of the country to external
shocks (export and import price fluctuations), the very large role of
foreign aid, and the fledgling nature of national economic management.
Government's Policies and Foreign Aid
15.       The Government has set as a priority task the reconstruction of
an efficient public sector and administration which was seriously disrupted
under the previous regime. Radical measures have been taken concerning
several public enterprises (liquidation of a publicly-owned bank and a sea
transport company), and a review of the public portfolio is underway. A
planning unit was recently staffed under a UNDP-financed/Bank-executed
planning assistance project. The UNDP/Bank team helped the Government
prepare an Interim Plan (1983-86) which defines in a macroeconomic
framework the objectives and the strategy of the Government. In the
ag:-icultural sector, the Government has begur to implement its strategy
reLative:Ly successfully despite some staffing problems, and is a good
example of collaboration between dedicated local staff and technical
assistance personnel. However, in this sector as in the others,
investments depend as much on what sources of external assistance are



- 5 -
willing to finance as on the plans of the Government. Moreover, due to
continued investment and the large need for technical and management
support, the manpower gap is likely to Increase and will have to be filled
by expensive technical assistance.
16.       Domestic financial resources are limited (see para. 13) and the
need for external financing extends beyond investment financing to budget
support. Between 1979 and 1982, the country obtained grant and loan
commitments totalling about US$185 million, representing about US$130 per
capita per year. Net ODA disbursements averaged US$99 per capita per year,
which is very high in comparison to the aid levels received by other
African countries.  Foreign assiLstance is vital for sustaining the
country's present level of economic activity; net flows averaged 33
percent of GDP during 1979-82. Besides IDA which contributed on average 9
percent of total commitments and 13 percent of all loan disbursements, the
main donors have been France, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Abu Dhabi, and several
multilateral institutions, in particular AfDB, BADEA, the Islamic Bank, UN
agencies, and EDF. The United States has so far provided only a small
amount of humanitarian aid, but it has recently indicated its intention to
implement, beginning in 1984, a larger program.
17.       The Government is still facing difficulties in securing local
counterpart funds for development activities. These difficulties stem from
the country's inherent limited resources as well as from institutional
weaknesses in the public sector. A recent reorganization of the
Administration has been completed and has led to considerable improvement
in the Government's ability to meet its employee payroll obligations on
time. More reforms are under way which are expected to have a positive
effect on the Government's cash flow and streamline and clarify its budget
procedures. These include renegotiation of the financial agreement with
France; provision of French technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance
for revision of budgetary procedures; and secured budgetary support from
France. The Public Investment Program has been reduced, projects deferred
and investments programmed with a link to the recurrent budget.
18.       Increased external financing on a concessionary basis will
continue to be required to support the Government's development efforts and
to ensure a continued capacity to service external debt. Given the
Comoros' poverty and current resource constraints, the Association should
continue to contribute to local cost financing.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CONOROS
19.       The Comoros joined the Bank in December 1976 and the Association
in December 1977. To date, Bank Group operations in the Comoros include an
IDA highway credit of US$5.0 million in 1978, a coconut rehabilitation
project for which IDA approved a US$5.2 million credit in 1980, a second
highway maintenance credit of US$6.3 million and a US$6.0 million education
credit, both in 1981, a US$2.3 million line of credit to the Development



- 6 -
Bank of Comoros and a US$2.8 million health and population project, both in
1]983.  To date, IFC has not made any investment in the Comoros.
]:mplementation of ongoing projects is generally satisfactory, although a
substantial input of technical assistance is required for project
maniagement.  Annex II to this report contains the status of Bank Group
Operations in Comoros at December 31, 1983.
20.        The Bank Group's only operation in the agricultural sector to
clate is the coconut rehabilitation and rodent control project. The project
i s designed to increase ccpra production by replanting aging coconut trees
with improved varieties, reducing crop losses through rodent control and
improving copra processing. The replanting programs are proceeding
satisfactorily but the rodent control component has run into some technical
problems, which will be addressed with the arrival of a new rodent control
specialist.  Due to low world prices for copra, litt.  progress has been
rmade on the copra processing component.  The project was appraised before
the CEFADER/CADER system (paras 28-29) was in place, and a review of the
project to examine its functioning within the CEFADER/CADER system took
place in March 1984.
21.        Regarding other on-going Bank operations in the Comoros, the road
mainteniance project has suffered from lack of counterpart funds and
dleficiencies in project management, which have resulted in the poor use of
project equipment. However, a recent supervision mission reported a
noticeable reduction in down time of equipment and in its use for
non-project tasks.  Implementation of the education project has experienced
some delays but is proceeding well; by December 1983 about 250 teachers
were upgraded under the Teacher In-Service Training Program.  The line of
credit to the Development Bank of Comoros was declared effective in
December and Government has already submitted projects for approval. The
health and population project was declared effective on February 16, 1984.
Comoros has been quite effective in using funds made available for project
preparation under the Project Preparation Facility and its performance on
disbursement of credits is generally good. Disbursements under the first
hi,ghway project were virtually the same as the appraisal estimates and were
c4om1pleted in three years.  Disbursements under the Coconut project have
been slow due to delays in construction and in award of contracts and the
poor market for copra.
22.        Future lending to the Comoros will continue to support the
productive sectors, i.e., agriculture and small-scale industries, but
assistance will also be provided for technical assistance and education and
manpower training.  A project completion report on the First Highway
project in Comoros was released on December 30, 1983, Its conclusion was
! hat except for the construction part, the project was only partially
successful due to timing delays in ordering and receiving equipment,
shortage of local funds for payment of brigade crews, and inadequately
qualified local counterparts.



- 7 -
23.       Sector studies have been prepared on health, population and
nutrition and on transportation. An education sector merno is planned for
FY85. A Bank agricultural sector memorandum was prepared and discussed
with Government and is presentLy being finalized for publication in grey
cover. The sector memo identifies key constraints and needs, many of which
are related to overall country constraints -- the shortage of good
agricultural land and the increasing population pressure; Government
difficulties in financing recurrent costs; shortage of skilled manpower;
and need for better donor coordination. The majority of the
recommendations in the sector memorandum can be implemented within the
framework of the CEFADER/CADER system. The main focus of the Government,
IDA and the international aid community should therefore be centered on the
continued strengthening of the CEFADER/CADER network.
III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Geographical Setting
24.       The islands are of volcanic origin, fairly rugged and covered
with lush vegetation, and their uneven relief gives rise to a wide variety
of micro-climates. Due to population pressure, increased cultivation on
steep slopes combined with heavy rainfall and exposure to the trade winds
has caused severe erosion, especially on Anjouan. There are approximately
55,000 farm families. Annual foodcrops and bananas cover about 40,000 ha,
coconuts a further 30,000 ha and export crops about 8,000 ha. Figures on
production and yields for all subsectors are tentative, since there is no
data collection service and no recent agricultural census.
25.       The main export crops are ylang-ylang (a tree whose flowers are
distilled for a perfume base), cloves, vanilla and until recently
coconuts. Coconuts are now mostly consumed locally since exports have
declined due to increasing demand for local consumption and poor world
prices. Tree crops are frequently mixed with foodcrops (cassava, maize,
bananas and pigeon peas). Average yields are low, reflecting simple
cultivation techniques, primitive tools, elimination of fallowing, and the
almost total lack of fertilizer, improved seed or pest control.
Double-cropping is very rarely practiced.
26.       Food production has not kept pace with population growth;  rice
*             imports have increased from 5,900 tons in 1961 to 25,000 tons at present.
Given the land shortage, food production increases must come about through
productivity improvements rather than area expansion. There is
considerable scope over the short term for improvements in productivity
through improved techniques such as row planting, stone removal, simple
terracing and use of better hand tools and seed. While animal husbandry is
secondary to agriculture, most farm families raise a variety of small



- 8 -
animals. Livestock productivity is reduced by genetic degeneration, poor
nourishment, insufficient water and parasitic and other infections.
Livestock productivity could be substantially increased by gradual
introduction of an animal health service to treat common diseases and
organize vaccination campaigns, improvement in forage grasses and
cross-breeding.
27,.      Indigenous forests cover approximately 10.6 percent of the
islands' area. Existing forests are being rapidly degraded as foodcrop
cultivation has spread into forest areas while the exploited forests have
not been renewed. There are no forestry management programs and few
reforestation or replanting programs. If measures to manage forest lands
are not undertaken, the islands' growing population would have to depend
increasingly on imports for its wood and energy needs. Forests were the
subject of concessions during the colonial period; 5,000 ha of the Kartala
forest are still in private ownership, and there are no legal controls over
its use. The State has the right to charge stumpage fees for trees cut in
State forests but these are rarely collected. Revisions in forestry
legislation are included under the project.
Institutions
28.       Following independence there was no national agricultural
extension system in the Comoros. In 1980, aware of the need to educate the
subsistence farming population in techniques to improve productivity, the
Government created the CEFADER/CADER system. The CEFADER is part of the
Ministry of Production and provides technical support and guidance at the
federal level to the CADERs, the regional extension and service centers.
The CEFADER is responsible for conceiving programs and carrying out project
implementation and technical, financial and administrative supervision and
management of CADERs. The existing organization of the CEFADER includes
agronomy, livestock, forestry, rural infrastructure development, economics
and research, home economics, nutrition, and training and extension
divisions. While the CEFADER has only three years' operating experience,
the beginnings of a rural extension service are in place. CEFADER
management is competent and has a strong commitment to rural development.
29.       The functions of the CADERs include responsibility for extension
services to demonstrate techniques to farmers, provision of inputs and
services, collecting informat:ion for monitoring activities, assisting
farmers in obtaining credit from credit institutions, and providing
information on and support to the formation of groups for marketing. At
present there are five CADERs: one covers 15 of the 20 villages on Moheli;
two reach about 40 percent of the population on Anjouan;  and two serve                     4
about 55 percent of Grande Comore.  Each CADER has a director, an assistant
director, an accountant, an average of 10 extension agents and two home
economists and a few hectares of land for crop trials and demonstrations.
Four more CADER buildings, financed by UNCDF, are under construction.



- 9 -
Government has requested IDA to finance the completion of these.  The six
new CADERs, when fully staffed, would extend the geographical coverage of
the CEFADER/CADER system to cover the entire population of the country.
Government Policies
30.       Government  strategy for the development of agricultural
production is being implemented through the CEFADER/CADER system. The
primary objectives are to increase food self-sufficiency and reduce food
imports through productivity improvements, while concurrently increasing
export crop productivity and undertaking land conservation measures.
The need for reorganization, effective use and supervision of staff,
budgetary management, and coherent planning and direction by the CEFADER is
becoming more pressing as its geographical coverage is extended, The major
donors, who cooperate well at field level, are well aware, as is CEFADER
management, of the need to consolidate the disparate activities into a
clear program of action, and to ensure that Government has the budgetary
capacity to continue these activities once the aid projects are complete.
On-going Activities in the Agricultural Sector
31.       From 1979-82, the UNDP was responsible for establishing the
CEFADER structure, equipping the first five CADERs, providing technical
assistance, salaries of UN volunteers and some operating costs.
CEFADER/CADER operating costs are now mostly paid by Government. The
projects carried out in the framework of the CEFADER/CADER network include:
a US$2.3 million UNICEF/EDF/UNDP poultry-raising project; a US$1.6 million
EDF maize project; a US$5.2 million IDA project for coconut rehabilitation
and rodent control; a US$7 million WFP project with food-for-work
involving land terracing and rural works; a US$0.9 million EDF project for
soil protection and erosion control; and a US$0.5 million FAC-financed
research and development project. In addition, AfDB financed a US$7.6
million vanilla/clove project, which is being redesigned. IFAD financed a
project preparation grant of US$300,000, administered by IDA, in November
1982 for preparation of the livestock component of the proposed project.
Problems in the Agricultural Sector
32.       The scarcity of good agricultural land and increasing population
growth are probably the major constraints to increasing agricultural
production in the Comoros. However, there are financial, manpower and aid
coordination problems which impede efficient operations in the sector.
33.       Recurrent Costs.  Donors to the Comoros generally finance not
only foreign and local investment costs but also the majority of local
operating costs, since Comorian management of public finances has been
lacking and the revenue base insufficient to meet the country's recurrent
cost obligations. Rural extension services are presently included in the



- 10 -
development budget, not in tlhe recurrent budget where they belong. As
foreign assistance is withdrawn, there is no clear mechanism for local
costs to be taken over by Government. Appropriate budgetary procedures for
including operating costs in the recurrent budget are essential, and these
woUld be established under tlhe proposed project.
34,        Shortage of Skilled Manpower.  Another constraint to the
development of Comorian rural services is the heavy dependence of the
Comoros upon technical assistance, due to the severe shortage of skilled
manpower at the senior management and middle levels.   Skilled agricultural
staff receive university training in France, but there is no organized
program of initial training for extension-level staff. Thus the quality of
staff varies from those who have received formal training outside the
Comoros to those with little initial training but with long experience.
The EDF is providing some on-the-job training and financing an agronomist
expatriate at the CEFADER. The IDA-financed education project would
address the problem of training middle-level manpower through construction
of an agricultural school on Moheli, scheduled for completion in December
1984.  Government is aware of these constraints to strengthening the rural
development structure in Comoros.  Thirty-seven Comorians are currently
undtergoing higher-level training in rural development abroad; a substantial
proportion of these should return to fill the middle and higher-level
positions.
35,        Donor Coordination.  The CEFADER/CADER system has received a
gre!at deal of aid from several donors. However, better coordination of
this aid at the policy-making level is essential. While there has been
some coordination among donors for specific co-financing operations,
integration of donor activities is necessary so that efforts are not
duplicated and resources may be better utilized. All projects are in
principle within the CEFADER/CADER system; however, a major problem of the
"pro;ject dependent" nature oE activities has been that the CEFADER/CADER
network has not functioned as a coherent, unified extension system.
Dif'ferent staff funded under the various projects have tended to work
exclusively on those activities.
36.        Additionally, there is no uniform salary structure for
agricultural staff. Staff salaries funded by different donors differ
between CADERs or among staff of the same level. Thirdly, the projects are
of uneven quality.  While soine activities, such as maize cultivation, have
benefitted from close supervision through technical assistance and IRAT's
substantial research work, others, such as li-vestock and forestry, have
received little or no sustained technical support.  These issues will be
discussed at the agriculturaL donors' meeting, to be sponsored by the
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) in Paris during
May.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       The proposed project is based on a Government request to the Bank
in December 1981 for assistance in financing a rural services project.
The need for intervention in the livestock sub-sector was originally
identified by IFAD in 1981. The Rural Services project was identified by
IDA in March 1982, and in September 1982, the decision was made during
preparation to combine the two projects in order to coordinate better the
CEFADER/CADER activities. The project was jointly appraised by IDA and
IFAD in June 1983. An advance from the Project Preparation Facility for
US$475,000 was approved in December 1983 to accelerate implementation.
Negotiations were held in Washington on March 9, 1984. The Comorian
delegation was led by H.E. Mr. Ahmed Ali Mohamed, Minister of Production,
Industry and Artisan Activities, and included Mr. Mohamed Ali, CEFADER
Director. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Comoros Rural Services
Project" (No. 4775-COM) dated March 26, 1984 is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. A credit and project summary is
provided at the beginning of this report and supplemental project data are
contained in Annex III of this report. A map, IBRD No. 12893R, is
attached.
Project Objectives and Description
38.       The project would assist the Government in establishing a
national system for rural services which would lead to increased
agricultural production. Specifically, the project would support
government policies and institution-building in the sector with the
following objectives: (i) to improve planning, monitoring and financial
management of activities in the rural development sector; (ii) to improve
training and supervision of staff at all levels; (iii) to extend gradually
rural services to cover animal health and production and forestry and
environment; and (iv) to consolidate the geographical coverage of the
CEFADER/CADER network.
39.       To meet the above objectives, the proposed project includes:  (i)
establishment of a planning and data collection and monitoring unit for the
CEFADER; (ii) expansion of the CEFADER's administrative and financial
management capability; (iii) reorganization of the CEFADER/CADER staff
work programs through the implementation of a regular extension training
and supervision program;  (iv) completion and operation of two new CADERs
in eastern Grande Comore, and operational support to the existing CADERs
and the CADERs under construction through UNCDF financing; (v)
strengthening of the CEFADER/CADER capability in the field of livestock
through extension services in animal health and animal production, and the
improvement and enforcement of sanitation regulations; and (vi)
strengthening of CEFADER/CADER activities in the field of forestry and
environment through improved farm forestry, soil preservation and forest
management.



- 12 -
4CI.      The project would finance:  (i) technical assistance and consul-
tancies at the CEFADER level in monitoring/planning and data collection
(2. man years); financial management (3 man years); training and extension
(2. man years); livestock activities (5 man yiears); and forestry/land
conservation (5 man years); (ii) overseas training for middle and
higher-level staff, local training for newly-recruited lower-level staff,
and in-service training for all local staff; (iii) vehicles and some
equipment; (iv)  minor civil works; and (v)  materials and operating costs.
41.       Detailed features of the project are as follows:
(a) Project Data Collection, Monitoring and Planning Unit
The proposed project would finance the establishment of a small
planning, monitoring and data collection unit within the CEFADER, under the
CEFADER director. With the arrival in February of the technical assistance
finianced under the PPF, the unit has become operational. As a condition of
credit effectiveness, the unit would prepare a preliminary work program for
1935 covering all ongoing activities, satisfactory to IDA and IFAD (Section
7.01(g), draft Development Credit Agreement). The unit's activities would
also include monitoring progress of all CEFADER/CADER projects, providing
assistance in the preparation of progress reports, identifying particular
problems in project implementation and recommending reorientation as
appropriate, and collecting farm data. Unit staff would plan future
projects in coordination witih other CEFADER staff and the Directorate of
Planning, to ensure compatibility of projects with CEFADER resources and
national objectives. The CEFADER would prepare a consolidated work program
and. progress reports (to be prepared by the Data Collection unit) which
would be submitted with the budget (to be prepared by the Administrative
and Financial Unit) two months before the beginning of each fiscal year for
annual review and comment by IDA and IFAD (Section 4.01(d), draft
Development Credit Agreement). Vehicles, equipment, salaries and operating
costs for the unit are also provided.
(b) Assistance in Financial Mlanagement and Adrministration of the CEFADER
The activities of the existing accounting unit, set up under the
Coconut project, would be expanded. Its initial tasks would include: (a)
preparation of statements of expenditure for all CEFADER/CADER activities;
(b) analysis of costs by activity and by source of financing (including the
Government budget and external donors); (c) classification of staff by
source of financing, in collaboration with the training/extension
specialist; and (d) preparation of a consolidated budget for all
CEFADER/CADER activities.  These tasks would be included in the 1985 work
program. Preparation of such a work program is a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 7.01(g), draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Administrative and Financial Unit would prepare detailed and
consolidated annual budgets of all CEFADER/CADER activities to be reviewed
by "DA and IFAD at least two months before the start of the following
fiscal year (Section 4.01 (b)(iii), draft Development Credit Agreement).
The unit would also prepare project accounts, supervise the revolving funds



- 13 -
and materials accounts; and develop simple accounting procedures to
monitor costs. Also included are salaries for two incremental staff,
on-the-job training for local staff, funds for vehicle maintenance and
office equipment.
(c) Training and Supervision Program
The proposed project would establish a program of extension,
training and supervision at all levels. A training/extension specialist
financed under the PPF would inventory existing staff posts and identify
their redeployment potential and training needs. Preparation of an action
plan for staff redeployment and an initial training and visit program for
all extension staff, as part of the unit's initial work program, and a
preliminary extension manual satisfactory to IDA would be conditions of
credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(f)(g), draft Development Credit
Agreement). Other training activities would include preparation of work
programs detailing field visits and training for extension staff and for
all CADER staff as well as initial training for home economists and
accountants. Office and pedagogical equipment and in-service training are
also provided.
(d) Assistance to Establishment and Operation of CADERs
The project would provide for the operation of four new CADERs
(regional extension and service centers) recently constructed with UNCDF
financing, and ensure the gradual build-up of their staff to full
strength (para. 29). It would also provide funding for construction and
equipment of the two existing CADERs not supported by other donors. This
component includes: technical assistance for two man years through U.N.
volunteer agronomists; salaries of all incremental staff; vehicle
replacements and vehicle and equipment maintenance; and incremental
working capital for purchase of inputs which would be sold to farmers for
cash.
(e) Strengthening CEFADER's Livestock Division
The CEFADER Livestock Division would be strengthened to enable it
to carry out the normal duties of a small animal health/production
service. It would initially be directed by an expatriate veterinarian
responsible for development of the activities, training, supervision, and
organization of the work program for all staff within the division.
Preparation of an initial work program for the division would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(g), draft Development
Credit Agreement). The division's activities would include: provision of
animal health services in the field through the CADERs, improvement of
livestock feeding and introduction of livestock production extension
services. Also included are vehicles and lab and poultry equipment, civil
works, purchase of improved stock, and increments to the materials account
for sale of drugs.



- 14 -
(f) Strengthening Forestry, Farm Forestry and Land Conservation Activities
The project would reinforce the Forestry/Land Conservation
Division of the CEFADER/CADER in order to develop farm forestry and land
conservation programs and ensure better management of existing forests.
Preparation of an initial work program for the division would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(g), draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Division's activities would include: tree
planting/land conservation on 750 ha of uncultivated land and 1,000 ha of
cultivated land; a development plan for exploitation and management of the
state forests;  maintenance cif village nurseries; and revision of forest                    a
legislation. Operating costs, consisting of salaries, plant material,
vehicles and office maintenance, would also be included.
Special Features
42.       A key feature of the proposed project would be reorganization of
the activities of existing staff on the one hand, and gradual expansion of
the new CADERs to their full staff strength on the other. Adequately
qua:ified Comorian staff will be available to fill the senior CADER posts;
Government has identified senior staff about to return from training abroad
as CADER directors and assistant directors. Appointments to senior CEFADER
posts would be acceptable to the Association (Section 4.01(e), draft
Development Credit Agreement). Additionally, Government will prepare by
December 31, 1984 a plan to ensure that Comorians who do not return to the
Comoros after benefitting from project-financed training abroad would
reimburse the cost of such training (Section 4.01(g), draft Development
Credit Agreement). Action programs for staff in existing CADERs would
include the full range of extension messages (actual demonstration to a
farmer) from the first year, and trials, studies and farmer feedback should
assist the development of improved techniques over the early years of the
project. Programs for staff in the new CADERs would emphasize a more
limited range of messages, gradually expanding in scope as staff acquire
experience.
43.       The project does not provide for technical assistance in
agronomy, since there are trained agronomists in the Comoros, and
furthermore, technical assistance is already provided under the UNDP and
EDF projects. However, appropriate technical packages and a work program
for agronomy would also be prepared as a condition of credit effectiveness,
and the agronomy division would participate fully in the training and
extension program (Section 7.01(g), draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       Another feature of the project is the amount of technical
assistance, which comprises 40 percent of project costs. Training of
Comorian staff would form a key aspect of the work of the technical
assistance and consultants. A training program would be included in the
annuEal work programs and preparation of an initial training program is a
condition of credit effectiveness (para. 41(c)).  Terms of reference for
technical assistance personnel have been agreed upon with Government.
Technical assistance personnel for the monitoring and planning unit and the
accounting unit began work in early February, the livestock director in



15 -
March, and the training/extension specialist and forestry/environment
director will begin by May and June, respectively. Consultants financed
under the project would have qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association and to Government
(Section 4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement). Expatriate technical
experts would manage technical units while Comorian staff are being
trained.
45.       Proposals for integrating CEFADER/CADER activities into a
coordinated program have been discussed with donors in the field and
received their support. This coordination would be continued during
project supervision. Every effort would be made to ensure that donors have
the opportunity to review the CEFADER/CADER work programs during
implementation and to associate them during the mid-term review.
Project Cost and Financing
46.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at about
US$9.3 million equivalent, of which about 63 percent, or US$5.9 million
equivalent, represents the foreign exchange component. Taxes are
negligible since all items imported by the CEFADER are exempt from taxes
and duties. A detailed cost table is provided in the credit and project
summary. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 4.8 million (US$5.0 million
equivalent) would cover about 54 percent of the total cost, the IFAD loan
about 36 percent, and the Government would contribute the remaining 10
percent, representing about US$930,000. IDA and IFAD would finance all
foreign exchange costs and 73 percent of local costs including operating
costs on a declining basis. Thie Government contribution would finance an
increasing proportion of local operating costs --mostly salaries, vehicle
operation and maintenance. Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to
effectiveness of the IFAD loan is a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
credit (Section 7.01(a), draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       Recurrent cost implications on the Government's budget will
continue to cause concern for some time until the measures described above
in para 17 take effect. In the interim in agriculture, the Government has
agreed to increase the proportion of its budget devoted to agriculture by 1
percent per annum.  Annual operating costs of the CEFADER/CADER system,
including project-related costs once the technical assistance has departed,
would be approximately CF 380 million, which represent about 7 percent of
the Government's recurrent budget of CF 4.7 billion. Assuming that
recurrent revenues remain constant at this level (a pessimistic assumption)
this would imply a gradual increase in the recurrent budget allocation to
agriculture from CF 55 million in 1984 to CF 330 million in 1989, or 85
percent of the Rural Services operating costs. Government would assume an
increasing share of these recurrent costs based on the amounts expected to
be disbursed over the project implementation period. Combined with
continued recurrent cost financing from donors, this should be adequate to
close the gap in agriculture.



- 16 -
48.       Estimates of Goveriament's increasing contribution would be
provided at the time of presentation of the consolidated budget and work
program by the Administrative and Financial Unit.   Government would
incorporate into its 1987 recurrent budget all recurrent costs of the
CEFADER/CAD7R system and all incremental project costs and make a gradually
increasing contribution to CEFADER/CADER operating costs according to a
schedule agreed upon at negotiations (Section 4.01(b)(i)(ii), draft
Development Credit Agreement). As stumpage fees are collected, they would
help finance CEFADER/CADER activities (Section 4.01(c), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
49.       Project cost estimates are based on March 1984 prices.  The
average cost per man-month of long-term techni.cal assistance is estimated
at US$9,800 and for short-term consultants, US$12,500. Salaries are based
on current Government scales and training abroad reflects actual tuition,
travel and subsistence at relevant international academic institutions.
Physical contingencies represent 10 percent of total project costs. Price
contingencies have been calculated at rates declining from 10 to 8 percent
per annum for local supplies and services and from 7.5 to 6 percent per
annum for imported items between 1984 and 1989.
Project Implementation
50.       The project would be implemented over a period of 5 years and is
expected to be completed by September 30, 1989. The CEFADER would be
responsible for overall implementation of the project. Under the
reorganization of the CEFADER, which would be completed by April 30, 1986,
the heads of the four technical divisions (agronomy, livestock, forestry,
and civil works), the Monitoring and Planning Unit, the Administrative and
Financial Unit, and the Training and Supervision Unit would have
responsibility in their areas and report to the CEFADER director (Section
4.0L(f)(i), draft Development Credit Agreement). Each of the four
technical divisions would be responsible for research, development of
teclnical themes, in-service training for its specialized staff in the
CEFAWER/CADER and supervision of extension staff.
51.       The Monitoring and Planning Unit would compile work programs and
budgrets, prepared by the technical divisions, the Administrative and
Financial Unit, and the Training and Supervision Unit and submit them to
the CEFADER director for review and approval. The Administrative and
Financial Unit would cover budgeting and accounting of all project
expenditures, monitor costs in each category and prepare consolidated
budgets for all CEFADER/CADER activities, The Training and Supervision
Unit: would adapt technical themes into easily understandable presentations
and organize training and work schedules around these themes for all
project staff. The CEFADER would furnish to the Association short progress
reports, to be prepared every four months, on project implementation
(Section 4.04(b)(iii), draft Development Credit Agreement). The CEFADER
would submtit a project completion report not later than six months after
the Closing Date (Section 4.04(e), draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
52.       At the regional level, CADER directors would report to the
CEFADER director and supervise all CADER staff and organize work programs
of extension staff. Specialists (veterinary specialists, home economists,
land conservation agents, rodent control experts) would provide technical
advice to general agricultural extension agents but would also work
directly with farmers. All CADER staff would be in frequent contact with
CEFADER technical staff during training sessions and for supervision. In
order for all CEFADER/CADER staff to be fully integrated into the system,
Government would prepare a harmonized salary structure for all staff to
take effect by April 30, 1986 (Section 4.01(f)(ii), draft Development
Credit Agreement). A project mid-term review would be carried out by
Government, with assistance from IDA and IFAD, to assess the institutional,
managerial and technical performance of the project (Section 4.04(d), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Proposed Procurement Methods
(US$ '000)
Procurement Method
Project Element             ICB    LCB    Other   NA         Total
Training & Tech. Asst.                     3,607   761       4,368
Vehicles, Lvst. & Equip.  723                305             1,028
Civil Works                        835                         835
PPF                                          520                520
Total                                                6,751
Operating Costs
Materials                                    673                673
Salaries, in-service
training, 9&M                                  1,879       1,879
Total                                                   2,552
Grand Total                                             9,303
Procurement
53.       Because of the Comoros' geographical isolation and the small size
of the civil works contracts for this project, foreign construction firms
not already in the Comoros are unlikely to bid for works under the
project. Therefore civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding, in accordance with current Government procedures
which were reviewed by a Bank procurem.ent mission in September 1982 and
found to be acceptable. Foreign firms would be considered for supervision



- 18 -
of works. Contracts for vehicles would be spread over a five-year period,
grouping vehicles by year and awarding orders on the basis of ICB. Given
limited maintenance capacity in the Comoros, tender documents must include
adequate guarantees of service and spare parts. Materials and specialized
equipment (improved livestock, laboratory and office equipment, etc.) would
be grouped for limited intetrnational tendering or direct purchase where
necessary. Draft tender documents for all contracts equal to or exceeding
US$50,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval before invitations to bid
were issued and full information on proposed contracts valued at US$10,000
to US$50,000 would be submitted to IDA for review prior to award of the
contract (Section 3.10 and Schedule 3, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursement
5X.       Since a disbursemLent profile for the Comoros does not exist,
disbursements for the agricultural sector in Eastern Africa (eight years on
average) have been taken as a point of comparison and adjusted to reflect
disbursement over six years based on project design and content. The
proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million and the IFAD loan of US$3.3 million
would be disbursed against 100 percent of total expenditures for training,
livestock and equipment, technical assistance, civil works, vehicles and
materials; operating costs and in-service training would be disbursed on a
decreasing percentage during the project period.  Documentation required
for disbursement would be certified statements of expenditure for all
operating costs and for technical assistance, vehicles, livestock and
equipment costing less than, US$10,000. Full documentation would be
required for all civil works expenditures and for other investment
exKpenditures costing more than US$10,000. The documentation for the
statements of expenditure would be retained by the Borrower and made
available for inspection by the Association during project supervision
(Section 4.04(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). The credit Closing
Date would be June 30, 1990.
Revolving Funds
55.       Two revolving funds would be established in an institution
acceptable to the Association under separate accounts. A special account,
witth an initial contribution of US$140,000 by IDA and US$90,000 by IFAD,
would finance project expenditures eligible for reimbursement from IDA and
IF7AD, other than those for which IDA and IFAD would disburse directly
(Section 3.03(a), draft Development Credit Agreement).  IDA and IFAD would
replenish the fund quarterly, upon receipt of withdrawal requests from the
Government. A Government-financed counterpart account, with an initial
deposit of US$20,000 equivalent by Government, would also be opened in the
Treasury. This account would finance Government's share of local operating
costs and would be replenished quarterly; this procedure would continue
until project completion (Section 3.03(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement).



-- 19 -
56.       A separate materials account for revenues from the sale of
inputs, drugs and materials to farmers through the CADERs would also be
opened in an institution acceptable to the Association and used to purchase
materials (Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement). Materials
would be sold on a cash basis at prices which reflect cost plus an adequate
margin and prices would be reviewed annually with IDA. Accounts of the
fund would be prepared quarterly and subject to review by the Association.
The level of this account would not fall below US$25,000 equivalent. The
establishment of the special account, the counterpart account and the
materials account and an initial deposit of US$20,000 by Government into
the counterpart account would be conditions of IDA credit effectiveness
(Section 7.01 (b)(c)(d), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Accounts, Audit and Reporting
57.       Separate accounts for project expenditures would be maintained by
the CEFADER and audits would be required for all accounts, including
statements of expenditure, to be carried out annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association in accordance with satisfactory
auditing procedures. Audited reports would be submitted to the Association
for review within three months following the end of each fiscal year
(Section 5.01, draft Development Credit Agreement). Provision for an audit
of CEFADER/CADER accounts has been made under the PPF and completion of the
audit for fiscal years 1982 and 1983 would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 7.01(e), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
58.       Through improved organization of the rural services institutions,
the project would provide for a more systematic approach to extension,field
trials and development of technical packages, which should lead to
increased fooderop, livestock and fuelwood production and better forestry
management. A considerable amount of the increased foodcrop and livestock
production would be consumed by the rural population; this would have a
beneficial impact, given the poor nutritional level of the rural
population. Through reduction in the growth of food imports, there would
be foreign exchange savings. An unquantifiable benefit would be the
preservation of ecological balance and soil fertility. Finally, donor
coordination would be improved by more effective use of resources through
better planning, work programming and proper budgeting.
59.       The main risks to project implementation and successful
continuation of CEFADER/CADER activities are: (i) limited Comorian skilled
manpower, for which the project would provide substantial training programs
for national staff and ensure that a substantial portion of the technical
assistants' work is devoted to in-service training; (ii) Government lack of
funds for recurrent expenditures, for which the project would establish
proper budgetary procedures and ensure a gradually increasing contribution
by Government to CEFADER/CADER recurrent costs; and (iii) the limited
technical packages available at present, for which the project would
include applied research, variety trials and monitoring of results and
links with international research organizations.



- 20 -
PART V -  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Federal
Islamic Republic of the Comoros and the Association and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the
E:xecutive Directors. Special conditions of credit effectiveness are listed
in Annex III.
61.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of tlhe Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 11, 1984



- 21 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                 Page  1 of 5
COHOROS                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COMOROS                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (W.'EIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
lb          lb  RECENT                 LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1960-        1970    ESTFMATHA          AFRICA S. CF SA AFRIAFRI A S. OP SARA
AREA (TROUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                     2.2          2.2          2.2
AGRICULTURAL                              7.9          1.1          1.1
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        90.0        170.0        320.0                254.6                       1147.9
ENERGY CONSUKPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          22.0          44.0         57.0                 79.8                        724.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-)YAR (THOUSANDS)        204.0         270.0        358.0
URBAN 'OPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)              ..         14.1         20.8                 19.5                         28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                    0.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                      2.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           94.0        124.4         159.9                 29.5                         56.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               226.7        257.1         327.4                 94.i                       131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUJRE (7)
0-14 YRS                             45.0         45.3          43.5                 45.0                         45.9
15-64 YRS                             52.3          52.0         54.3                 52.1                         51.2
65 AND ABOVE                           2.7          2.7           2.2                  2.9                          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                  2.9lj         2.8/        2.6/i                2.8                          2.8
UIRBAN                                   ..           ..          6.1                  6.2                          5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            48.2          46.9         47.2                 47.9                         47. 6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            21.5          19.9         17.5                 19.2                         15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.2          3.1          3.1                  3.2                          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (7 OF MARRIED WOMEN)                                        3.0/c
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                              . .       100.0         99.0                 87.8                         95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          99.0         96.0         102.0/d               88.0                         97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              40.0         39.0          43.07W               51.2                        56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            10.0         10.0          12.0oW,e             18.1                         17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             28.5          21.5         16.2                 25.7                         23.6
HRALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            42.5         44.5         47.5                 47.4                         51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TROUS)          135.3         110.5         90.9                126.5                        117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..           ..                 24.7                         25.4
URBAN                                   ..            ..           ..                 56.8                         70.5
RlURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                 18.3                         12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(7 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..           ..                 28.1
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                 65.7
RU24AL                                   ..           ..           ..                 21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             18550.0      14210.0      10230.0              27420.6                      12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               3100.0|f      900.0        2750.0               3456.2                       2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                500.0        480.0         440.0               1183.2                      1075.4
URBAN                                    ,,       110.0            ,                 380.6                       402.3
RURAL                                    ..      1140.0            ..               3177.5                       3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         17.8
NOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN
RURAL                                   ..            ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..            ..
RURAL                                    . .          . .          ...
ACCESS To ELECT. (7 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..         20.O/,h.
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _ -_ _    _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



- 22 -
ANNEX I
T A B L `  3A                                           Page  2  of  5
TOMOROS                   - SOCIAL -NDICATORS DATA SHEET
COMOROS                                  REFERENCE GROUJPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT                LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960-        1970-  ESTIMATE-          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                       14.0         34.0       103.0                 63.9                         97. 2
VALAE                     23.0          46.0        120.0                 73.6                        103.1
FEMALE                     4.0          21.0         85.0                 51.6                         88.5
SECONDARY: TCTAL                        1.0          3.7         25.0                 12.5                         17.2
MALE                       2.0           5.1         33.0                 16.7                         23.5
FEMALE                     0.2           2.0         17.0                  8.1                         14.2
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECCODARY)                . .         0.0          1.1                  7.3                          5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               41 .0         42.0         46.0                 46.4                         42.9
SECONDARY                             1.7.0         20.0         31.0                 25.1                         23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATF (Z)                    ..         58.4/i          ..                36.5                         37.1
CONSUKP ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP                ..           ..            ..                 3.3                         18.8
RADIC RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              2.5         88.9        109.5                 45.3                         97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                  ..           ..            ..                 2.2                         18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..           ..            ..                 4.7                         18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCEICAPIT4           0.1          0.4            ..                 1.0                          0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)                PO.0         99.0        128.C
FLMALE (PERCENT)                      36.6          35.7         34.9                 34.5                         36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 70.0          67.0         64.0                 76.9                         56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    i9.0          21.0         23.0                  9.8                         17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.3          36.6         35.7                 40.9                         37.0
MALE                                  50.6          47.7         46.9                 53.0                         47.1
FERMALF                               28.4          25.8         24.7                 28.9                         27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.2          1.3          1.3                  1.2                          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCETIT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HEIGEST SC OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..           ..            ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..           ..           ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHIOLDS                ..           ..            ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOL'JTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEl, (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            ..               165.9                        534.2
R'JRAL                                   ..           ..           ..                 87.4                        255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                100.8                        491.5
RURAL                                    ..           .,           ..                 64.6                        188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BEL OW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME. LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            .                 39.5
RURAT                                   ..            ..           ..                 69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The gtoup averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniforn.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970  between 1969 and
1971; and data for Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1982; /d Present Bank estimates indicate lower ratio of supply of calories and proteins; /e 1977; If 1962;
/g Percentage of population; /h 1976; /i 1966; Ij Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than rate of
natural increase.
May 1983



- 23 -                                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONSf OF fOlIAL lINDICATORS
comprabl  becus ao telae  f  cedrdee  dfllloThndeocpldoeabydffrr-rcoorls  s  olet rgthhdc.lhedoa  e,-osch ls,  o                                                               loft
doscibe order  of naooe,Irdicote  treodo, ard ccstefe ertai  eoj- differe-e  bet-eetcurt-e-
oerefcer  Itoops  are(11 th  soe  oor  groap of the sahbjct coorcep asd (2) a coastry gr...p olti o-erobt higher a-crge Inco..e cha  the cocpgrpofte
cci) oc   __astr  leeo,  for "al bit  ..oe".   0  tocrtro -Io  abre  ''Toddle Oscose sorti Afric.abcd Piddlbed hoo' i ho bc-  ibca-o  ofocogtca-lrr
efflo)-O  the coe-ece, group dot  the  .o...g.o are pcolef__   eighted  .etei  scars for cccl                   -.,to  0-0 slOa  coip  -ce  eoctyo  thecosrisidc
g,op ha  daa fota  todic toy   force  Ihe cocerage of cctma_oo  che irdiloototsdeyrds oc lIe aolalbifl fo  of data aodho coto-for, cootion not tbe
AREA (thousand oqJ. _                                                                                Ppoat lo   tPiacIn-Preit doolided hyb                   ce   f    cico
Totl-  oo  safacraree  -oPrisfg lord  lare  atd isl-od Wasters; (idb,                                pistashcoldfo      eoa   cofa   "oorIt, p(tool
saroiclcarao~tetneoeofatrfoclrcr Ioreaasodtesporarolpoepeca ....ly                       eaeedealeoeadootoatec. ~            ,oalttn          cpacla    ure   o
09Th  cd 19f dct.                                                      Polat-   o  per fosla   ed-ccf seas oraetro  Id Pooaco (oal                      .
M--II                                                                    ?'P'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`i-~rbt  erd ocal-iofdped 6' terr etc    oiro   optlhd
fhe P  .CAPIT  (fool - dIP prr cadlicoestimates- orcrrec  moter p 1icr,                              o         -fabcis palfoadpieegeea   r   pclitdbot    adi
fAil, ff77, cod 1911 data.   ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~   e,                                   byat les d t   iefcc    ,thfscucen   -cI Priniplly    s o lot
corarestfoodd.  dabohoeptashear,foaeelh
GNP PER loAPITlhA   P0   aPIT  a -  ooc  -ppce- .     osyc.      oo  coe.tr.ca.1                       med p cla-c.etr   o   etrr  ysofdh ad.. pcylcf la   yandua
priar  eerg  (oa  cd l1cte  pcrom'm,cacra  ft,codhyro,  oclemasfstot, are ,nfcie  tt.  aOrtoferimnococ "                       cooodtfotcr
Ancre,NS                                                                                             fro   hsIt-als dbecided hp the noher of hfds
amoog  oocores  lIO,  ff1, ocf 191pot.                                                    seeg  Oe  of louiclda(ersonapotla hoshold) -.totaf  ora                       diodual
MoaeicPToNec loot C                                                                                  ocaodcosos  fagrTAforioiaooa  hr  loo hacr
Popalatlrg0y5tld -cortppalafcpoc   tc  oecsdo   fied   h                                                     acsas    hoIard...or loge  capy or            _ say   byt ho c _fddi
tofol psoletlor  y oge of seo an  theIr trtolgcyadf fertlf..t.                    him hcoehld fo  statosticf   a'orposesl   al
19 apIt70,ab  198eicl, s   esrlaeepoac   cbies  at 701a                                           doef_(from,  tas de ifocl    loof f tocoloo50p raoftaraes
plaoriog   erforcece. lohtocryO  te  eododde fths  rs                                      fceofcliid.. de igs mIt  eletriot IaIniftind btattr   sptftg
comiloatacro of mocoalfoy ctd fortotityteecds for projechiso poopomme.  of total, orhac, ocd rarol doellftosteapoctftefyI
ccci iorreefoofoorterepldosltsoiceactie    flesttlocar                             ectrilest ofal1970ot ahdpOAem,iosli-prcmtccic oftepeosoo
poaatssoeamt-ae   a   h  bssofomprjctddarco-Trmtem  oo-g  roaacso  sorb- (p toideccfdr   gdhi
d  si",,,  deiT to ppoahio In the-1  yea - 2 f1 cd1b th  roela ofdpclceofyear hoPt-l odjoited dot difheofIb  oths of proer  aoetios; for
fotbtpottrelooet oef. ayocrifflh otott-edtacotbiulmeise   eceefddpetec
poptoio 9sot  il  190, race.J 1981 dodaryd ocoitcisfsdoeoCmaeaaoe acodo
toti  eca   Oif -- 1-7,  o   fifr daf.l                                                            pay--o ocIfefty of  if t .1 yeas ofa g;crccpcdresss
Persa.On.oaroccloociffctd-Cstpuor~     ~      ~~dashneIaeiotmalcdiorah                                eofd
sofy  196, 097 co  191  dao.                                                 Ocetlcef  croioes  (peorocof ccoodrnl-Oc__forf is                           ...oloo
yeaIpoalecion for ffd1-hI,aOfil-TII oeIdi1970-fl.                                                 meepoodic- inoelo
Poealcttoohroathlocefpertat)-irhac-aoooaforoschrotI        of-1ha                       fdothlicedcParclecec-itct                      dioaoeoedaooima
porolac 00cm  for ff11-hi,tbfOhl-71,Jcod 1b70-Of      ,             f.I                     daapceoce  ftao  ad_ait popao dLioni age  1                       ader.rI
pSPolttos; ff10. 1970 1.t  000  doec. r    ....                                                    car  sestfc  less  henel1ir peeath;mIr'ddc oshaesoIoE  hearesIco
bee   -oaf cepIooccon   pe.fI d I  sheai omp-erloco y  frmsmr  ag-spelffolte                   Aldu tecefPers 1ret Rhecdrpocio                  Alrprofccirc  o   ai
fact f fo  raco ahseplfy-floe-poo  segsedo  O   10   f1 -id Odod caststofeterl pahfi  per rhoasdI if poplac lbrl  f odadmc0
ofhic-ooto   dnoeooe  ecpcs  fsa lsl  ail  peofg                                     ontlc  hoiteT   feroitg.                        .
PeOpbPfasrlce-CT          ......er de oforredbemi of-lh pl.erse0eofdMorodd-                          pemrslrhyc   petho..r poylaoo;                _erl ,dcsrthilmd-p ageodoe11
sf1mo tcc   I'lel t.  tese 0-- iroo .                                                        sccIpeoi .r  iteicpchI_dardlcaot  r_ao  tice ausra-go                         d
acoonfpodi, Aisofisf bfo-dhondfacs. Ptiat..eold.o.dad                                          sP.dlf    fitapplear    tfatfureIemo
hated or ate   19or 0f a9e0eg a pr1d80ed prIce ceigloce; 1960-of, 1970,Icmd 1911                                                            ~      Plld
date.                                                                                   tolno1980Pdata
e197c0s,asodchange        dactaod.  mt c  P ae  sf-eermf  ed,sed,c-proO    f0,17  an  091d, doo                                       i-.
athoctf  (tO    091-97171ao                -90  dt.                                                               "I forct,strdd7ea   a coaeo   ra    drfet   90
set tpply  f fod perday.   ct opyy  f tod  Os deffed` s  ebnefPrlclp-di. atg                                prrs   -ttl,rl ,             - cod fsle-aheuioatfoo etd
tu-belroel, f' 19h0l60 196-0 fotsoi   eafelpoeo    hs                                               01d609718 fP   at co   fl  os   T  s  aeh tdo  70spit  ole  sem
stocoard~E ar  isecaooeo    hfaeofttlpcel   o   )gac                                               elc  ogeoae   trc eo   h                   pop ae les cod 000 rOse orrtOd   7
afeci"' proulta   erhaerdof-rtheIold.pbtsprmed-hpyAbdlth                                         scstsocefrtocmoOdol slpsscroec
Thr   srdPd I     Osroe; 16,1970-of,d 19701eda 1910 dae                                         tsoscleedro hod-eso  popoed 1o cyde  0  cd  iSco  oscc
Perei~ spRoteinPe soppi       d f -o Asisol sdecuth -Pretefo  toop  of  fodtidttl  ihe  orc
dccc.                                                                                    IliOft IIOTOIOP_CODh
ht.dl, e  0A  Oot  ee_(e tossd)-fa,oldeth   ercooor   s                                                                  lreaae  fPrnctfooe hohIscahco   uldI-remlt  h dooe 
co..tr ietdo d d.r-fe   ro ie  tahir-s;  ff05, a, 197  cod a 1      ill daea  ibiheooofdc
01011060510011 TIPoOPte OOdUP                                                                                              h-O
pest of oge  er cisosard  ose hfrthtoff61, 0970 ad 0901 d 70c                     dloht  podt  bos    on             l-sthrsase (oly- f h rbom   ic....to
I  isherl ofpepm  cra,id                                                                                                                             P odcoa)    d   eoosiesoesdo oa  ffrabe
craomaulI   ooeos'cadorfcrdmosr  that 00l fecily pla_ie..i ofch cd                                                     ; datm to foehbheueeo,ogo  sohco cre                 -d-
Prol' s ia-hous   omp  a he  occdeed, Tshlgolineaosbetes   fe                                      Istoate   Psulei         , meo   hctt  omo   noeIocI aoc      e
hoas.  O  raaf  reesreoorohieocots cuOd0~rp tht re taseafese      cd recOroceot  f ppultlo  loc asordcorl) os oe 'e0olat
mo  Occud   he colec  bc e roddipoalbothorlltoa  cedmeci,o                                                                  P'-toosorac ande Social ,    T letsIos
1O~ His NUo Ice  ocdaoe-cr   2atr-  rcssetotfraes   i ".ot.ic.                                                                                  na...... r  Pro crasb     Ifernt
peldtc Iso-oloOar i"tIdcetdo,                                                                                                                         lo  190



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
0CHHS  - EXNHIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATI(4L P1lJa IN 1982                                                            AMIAL RATE OF  G(L1H (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.          %                                        1979-82              1982
GNP at Mairet Prices                   131.2          100.0                                        5.4                 3.4
Gross Donestic Irrvestment              36.7           28                                          9.6                -1.0
Gross Domestic Saving                    6.6            5                                         30.0                31.9
Current Accont Balance                 -42.0         -32
Exports of Goods, NFS                   22.3           17                                         38.0                 6.3
ITports of Goods, NFS                   53.8          41                                          13.3                -6.0
CUIPUi IN 1982
Value added
US$ Mln.          %
Agriculture                             54.3            4.4
Industry                                18.6           14.2
Services                                58.3           54.4
Total               131.2          100
Gentral Government
LJS$        % of CGP
1982          1982
(Lirrent Receipt                        14.4           11.0
0irrent Expenditures                    40.0           30.5
Current Delicit                        -25.6           19.5
Capital Expqeliture                     14.6           11.1
External Assistance                     40.2           30.6
MtEY, CFE)rT and PRICS
1979          1980            1981
(Jurne)
(M:illion of CF outstanding end period)
Mty   and (kjasi Mne                  3548           4016
Bark Credit; to the Governrent         174            732
Bank Credit to Private Sector         2254           3234
(Percenta w or Irnex Numers)
Mbney and (uasi Mbney as % of GDP       16.6           16.3
GDP Price Leflator (1979 = 100)        100.0          110.8
Annial percentag  changes in
GDP Price Deflator                      15.1           10.8
Bank Credit to the Government          102            320
Bank Credit to Private Sector            2             43.5
Note: All zonversiore to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
not available
not 3pplicable



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
CXM)RDS - TRADM PAYMENT AND CAPITAL FL0WS
BAIANCE OF PA)MFH1S                                                   MERCHANDISE EXFVRI'S (AVERAGE 1979-82)
1979       1980       1981    1982 e/                                        US$ min.      %
(US$ Mllion)         -
Ylark-Ylang essences                   1.6         13
Vanilla                                6.0         48
Exports of Goods, NFS         19.9       14.1       18.3   20.9       Copra                                    .4          3
Imports of Goods, NFS         31.8       34.3       50.8   48.5       Cloves                                 4.0         33
Resource Gap (deficit -)     -11.9      -20.2      -32.5  -27.6       Otber comodities                         .4         3
12.4        100.0
Interest Payments (net)         .1         .1         .4      .4
Other Factor Payments (net)    .0         -.2        -.4     -.4
Net Transfers                 10.8       11.4       24.3    16.7
Balance on Current Accoumt    -1.0       -8.9       -8.2  -10.9
MENAUL DEBT, DE(XBMER 31, 1982
Net MLT Borrowing             10.3       22.1       15.2    8.7
Disbursements                 10.3       22.1       17.2   12.5
A.rtization                     -          -         2.0     3.8
Others 1,                    -11.7      -16.4       -1.1     7.5      PublicDebt, incl. guaranteed
Change in Reserves            -2.4       +3.2       -3.9    -5.3      Non - Guaranteed Private Debt
increase)                                                        Total Outstanding & Disbursed         74.9
DEMT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982 2/
Memo item
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          3.0
Imports of Petroleam Products     1.9        6.2        5.9  5.7      Non - Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed          3.0
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (December 31, 1983) (US$ Mlm.)
IBRD          _
OuXtstanding & Disbursed                .           9.45
RATE OF EXCHANGE        1979       1980       1981      1982         lUdisbursed                               .          18.15
0utstanding  i1. Undisbursed            .          27.60
US$1.00 = CF           212.72     211.30     271.72     328.62
CF    1 = US$            0.0047     0.0047     0.0037     0.0030
e/ Estimates
l/ Including errors and missions
2/ Ratio of Debt Service Payments to Exports of
Goods and Non-Factor Services
not available
not applicable



- 26 -
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE COMOROS
A. St:atement of IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1983)
Credit:
Number        Year       Borrower          Purpose             IDA      Undisbursed
--- US$ million ---
852-COM1I/   1979       Comoros           Highway I           5.0   Fully disbursed
1035-COM      1981       Comoros          Agriculture          5.2         3.35
1188-COM      1982       Comoros          Highway II           6.3         4.54
1195-COM      1982       Comoros           Education           6.0         5.11
1378-COM      1983       Comoros          DBC                  2.3         2.30
1408-COM      1984       Comoros          Health &
Population        2.8          2.85
TOTAL                                           27.6         18.15
of which has been repaid                        -           -
TOTAL now outstanding                           27.6         18.15
Amount sold                       -
of which has been repaid        -
TOTAL now held by IDA 2/               27.6        _
TOTAL Undisbursed                       18.15       18.15
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1983)
none
1/ The IDA credit was complemented by an EEC Special Action Credit of
US$0.7 million.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments



-27-
ANNEX III
COMOROS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare project                      7 months
Preparation mission                               November 1982
Appraisal mission                                 June 1983
Negotiations                                      March 1984
Planned date of effectiveness                     August 1984
Section II: Special Implementation Action
None
Section III: Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a) Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to effectiveness under the
IFAD loan (para. 46);
(b) Preparation and submission to IDA and IFAD of draft annual work
programs for the (i) agronomy, (ii) livestock, (iii) farm forestry
technical divisions; (iv) the Data Collection and Monitoring Unit;
(v) the Training and Supervision Unit; and (vi) the Administrative
and Financial Unit (paras 41(a)(b)(c)(e)(f) and 43);
(c) Completion of an audit for all CEFADER/CADER activities for fiscal
years 1982 and 1983 (para 57);
(d) Opening of the special account in an institution acceptable to the
Association (para 55);
(e) Opening of the counterpart account in the Treasury with an initial
contribution of US$20,000 equivalent by Government (para 55);
(f) Opening of a materials account in an institution acceptable to the
Association for deposit of payments received from farmers through the
CADERs from the sale of inputs, drugs and materials (para 56).






40 3O44                                                                                                                                                     4150
Mitsamiouli -                                                                                                         COMOROS
t_ iChezani
Ivembeni            GRANDE COMORE
Hahaia        It                                                                                                  {       CAPITAL  CITY
,_   . 1                                                                                           0        OTHER  TOWNS
EXISTING  ROADS
f / ~~Kou~mbani
Kou'mbi                                                                                           -          ROADS  UNDER  CONSTRUCTION
MORONI                                                                                                                          PORTS
Iconi _        s     Qi9Bandamadiji                                                                                +         AIRPORTS
-Foumbouni
Dembeni
0             20            40             60
KILOMETERS L                 I             I              I
MILES I                       II 
-120                                                                                                                               0          10          20         30          40               120
This map has been prepared by
MU uSAM                                                            The World Banr's staff exclusively
MUTSAMUDU            W                                                 for the convenience of the
MOHELI                                                 s                 lBambao                                               readers and is exclusively for the
.Hoani 4$                                                                                                          internal use of The World Bank
0     FOMBONI                                                                                                      and the hntemational Finance
Miringoni o    $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l%%:~~~~~~~.~~~ ~Corporation. The denorminations
Miringoni ,0    +   ~i-. .                                          Moya   b'Remani                                            used and the boundaries shown
O- _    Wanani                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on the
Nioumachoua                                             ANJOUAN                                                             part of The World Bank and the
ANJOUAN                                                             International Finance Corporation,
CANZONI       OUENEFOUIS.                                                                                                      any judgment on the legal status
of any territory or any
endorsement or acceptance of
430                                                                                                                                                                      such boundaries.
,/-*-  International Boundaries
k TANZANIA lA                                                                                                                                 MAYOTTE
N  <              S            SEYCHELLES                                                                                                         (Fr.)      
M'Zambor6,
A A   , ?  COMOROS                                                                                                                                                            D
A                               ~~~~~~~~MAURITIUS                                                                                          Cign
iY                                                                                                                                  DZAOU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DZI
I,                                                                                                                           Boueni Bay          Bande* le1 60ue  X an
Reunion Is.                  _130
*                         (~~~       ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~~FR.)0
INDIAN  OCEAN                      440                                                                          450



