 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14772

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/01/2015

               Country: Pakistan
             Project ID: P114508                                                   Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Pakistan: Third              Project Costs (US$M):                      92.65                  283.3
                         Partnership For Polio
                         Eradication Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      74.68                 142.72
      Sector Board:      Health, Nutrition and        Cofinancing (US$M):                       7.95                 140.58
                         Population
          Cofinanciers: Japan International           Board Approval Date :                                   06/18/2009
                        Cooperation Agency                   Closing Date:               12/31/2011           06/30/2014
                        Islamic Development
                        Bank
         Sector(s):     Health (100%)
         Theme(s):      Child health (100%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 5), the project’s objective was “to assist Pakistan’s efforts
    to eradicate polio through procurement, timely supply and effective use of the oral polio vaccine (OPV) for the
    country’s Supplementary Immunization Activities (SIAs) during 2009 -11”.

    According to the Financing Agreement of July 3, 2009 (p. 5), the objective of the project was "to assist the
    Recipient in its efforts under its Polio Eradication Initiative (PEI) to eradicate polio from its territory."

    The objective of the Financing Agreement will be used for this validation.

    This is the third project that the Bank has financed under the Global Polio Eradication Initiative since 2003.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    Pakistan's Polio Eradication Initiative consisted of three components. This project financed Component 1:

    Component 1: Procurement, timely supply, and effective use of Oral Polio Vaccine (OPV) (appraisal estimate
    US$ 92.65 million [US$ 74.68 million by IDA], actual US$ 283.3 million[US$ 142.72 million by IDA]): This
    component was to finance the procurement, purchase, timely supply, and effective use of approximately 551
    million doses of OPV for supplementary immunization activities during several rounds of national immunization
    and sub-national immunization days.
   Component 2: Supplemental immunization activities (appraisal estimate US $ 45.95 million [no IDA financing
   was allocated], no actual cost provided ): These activities included: i) cold chain maintenance, ii) social mobilizati
   on, iii) training, and iv) national immunization and sub-national immunization days activities.

   Component 3: Surveillance (appraisal estimate US $ 4.91 million [no IDA financing was allocate d], no actual
   cost provided): This component included laboratory and epidemiological surveillance activities.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: The estimated cost at appraisal from IDA was US$ 92.65 million. Actual project cost was US$
   283.3 million.

   Financing: The project was financed by an IDA Credit using a buy down lending mechanism. This mechanism
   included a special provision for third party donor funding to pay service and commitment charges of the credit
   during project implementation and buy the net present value of the IDA credit once the project had been
   completed successfully. The buy down mechanism of the IDA credit was to be triggered if targets for timely
   delivery of vaccines at district stores of the department of health and coverage rates for OPV were achieved. The
   targets were to be set by an independent performance audit. If the targets were not met, the Borrower would be
   responsible for all payments of the credit.

   Original Financing: The project was to be financed as follows:
    A US$ 74.68 million IDA credit, which was fully disbursed in US Dollars. Exchange rate gains were
   cancelled.
    A US$ 7.95 million loan by the Japan International Cooperation Agency.
   Additional Financing :
     First Additional Financing: A US$ 41 million IDA credit, which was fully disbursed.
     Second Additional Financing: A US$ 24 million IDA credit, which was fully disbursed.
     A US$ 110.58 million loan by the Islamic Development Bank (used to finance campaign and communication
       costs through the World Health Organization (WHO) and UNICEF).
     A US$ 22.05 million loan by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).

   Borrower Contribution : The Government of Pakistan was to contribute US$ 10.02 million for the procurement of
   OPVs.

   Dates: The project was restructured five times:

        On April 21, 2011 the following changes to the project were approved: i) Additional financing of US$ 41
         million was provided by IDA to support a financing gap for the period between July 2011 and August 2012.
         The financing gap was a result of floods in 2010, which led to an increase in polio cases and the requirement
         to scale up project activities. Also, new recommendations by the WHO required additional shots per child
         and a new type of vaccine; ii) The closing date was extended by one year to December 31, 2012; iii) An
         intermediate outcome indicator “total number of children immunized for polio during the project period” was
         added to the Results Framework to fulfill the Bank’s core sector indicator mandate; iv) The PAD PDO was
         adapted to be aligned with the language of the PDO stated in the Financing Agreement; v) Time parameters
         of indicators were adapted to reflect the new closing date; and vi) Targets were updated.
        On October 2, 2012 the following changes to the project were approved: i) A second additional financing of
         US$ 24 million from IDA to support a financing gap for the period between February and June 2013. The
         financing gap resulted from increasing costs for purchasing vaccines to implement the National Emergency
         Action Plan 2012 for Polio Eradication; and ii) The closing date was extended by six months to June
         30,2013.
        On April 6, 2013 the project closing date was extended by one year to June 30, 2014. Changes in
         vaccination modalities, violence against polio workers, and therefore fewer polio campaigns left a credit
         balance. This balance was used for financing the procurement of vaccines for the period between July and
         October 2013 and supplementary immunization activities in the next fiscal year.
        On September 11, 2013 the second additional financing was amended to incorporate a partial buy down
         agreement. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation committed US$ 10 million to a debt servicing trust fund.
         This trust fund was to be used to pay the credit’s commitment, service and interest charges. Any remaining
         balance was to be used to pay the net present value on the principal amount of the credit.
        On December 23, 2013 the project was restructured to cancel the undisbursed amount under the original
         and first additional financing credits, close the credits, estimate the final amortization amounts for the buy
         down, and initiate the buy down process.
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High: Pakistan’s intermediate health outcomes had been improving prior to 2008. Through the Expanded
   Program on Immunization, 5.1 million children were vaccinated every year, resulting in lower morbidity and
   mortality due to vaccine-preventable diseases. During the early and mid-2000s, vaccination rates exceeded 97%,
   and new confirmed polio cases decreased from 1,147 in 1997 to 32 in 2007. However, in 2008, Pakistan started
   to experience an increase in polio cases. The government of Pakistan decided to address this increase by
   intensifying its supplementary immunization activities and requested the Bank’s assistance for a third partnership
   for polio eradication. The project was in line with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (FY 2006-2009), which
   aimed to reduce poverty through improving health status and increasing productivity levels. The objective was
   also in line with the Bank’s current Country Assistance Strategy (FY 2015-2019), which specifically focuses under
   its results area “service delivery” on “improving coverage of immunization services to address recurrent
   outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases in children, including polio.” This project is part of the Global Polio
   Eradication Initiative and the third project supported by the Bank in Pakistan since 2003.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial: The project design was simple; it included only one component to finance the procurement,
   purchase, timely supply, and effective use of approximately 551 million doses of OPV.

   The project design took advantage of already existing structures and management systems to receive and deliver
   OPV to district stores and obtain estimations for amounts of OPV necessary for the implementation of
   supplementary immunization activities. The strategy for the supplementary immunization activities was to be
   coordinated with international and domestic partners by an Inter-Agency Coordination Committee. Coordination
   committees at the district levels were to be responsible for coordinating district health management teams and all
   line departments. Since these structures were already in place, the project design allowed for a quick
   implementation start. Also, the use of IDA’s buy-down mechanism was appropriate; it had been applied
   successfully in two previous buy-down initiative in Pakistan. The project used UNICEF’s procurement and
   financial management procedures. However, a minor shortcoming was that the project design did not take into
   account and mitigate weaknesses in inventory management for vaccines.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Assist the Recipient in its efforts under its Polio Eradication Initiative (PEI) to eradicate polio from its territory :
   Modest

   Outputs:

        95% of OPV coverage was verified by finger marking in the targeted accessible populations (children under
         five) in all high-risk districts during the project period at supplementary immunization activities, surpassing
         the target of 90%.
        32,060,840 children were immunized for polio during the project period, surpassing the target of 32 million
         and reaching a 99% coverage rate.
        The coverage of vitamin A supplementation was at 95% in the provinces, surpassing the target of 90%.
        96% of OPV arrived on time at the district stores of the department of health in all districts at least three
         working days before the scheduled dates of the supplementary immunization activity, almost achieving the
         target of 100%.
        The procurement and delivery of UNICEF-certified OPV arrived 15 days before each supplementary
         immunization activity round in Islamabad, not achieving an arrival of 21 days before the start of another
         round to provide sufficient time for planning.

   Outcomes:

        By the date the project closed (June 30, 2014), 100 new polio cases were confirmed for 2014, not achieving
         the target of fewer than 25 cases.
        Overall, Pakistan experienced an increase in polio cases from 58 cases in 2012 to 306 cases in 2014. The
         306 cases in 2014 were all in the FATA, KP and Sindh districts, where support by the project could not be
         provided due to the prevailing security situation.
5. Efficiency:


    Modest: Neither the PAD nor the ICR conducted a traditional economic efficiency analysis. The PAD (p. 12)
    stated that a normal cost-benefit analysis cannot easily be applied to disease eradication, but that controlling an
    infectious disease is a public good with high positive externalities. Also, the PAD refers to a WHO study which
    estimated that the foregone treatment and rehabilitation costs once polio has been eradicated globally could
    exceed US$1 billion per year.

    The ICR (p. 16) refers to a study by Duinter Tebbens RJ. (2011) which found that, between the start of the Global
    Polio Eradication Initiative in 1988 and the completion of post-eradication policies (assumed to be in 2035), over
    8 million paralytic polio cases in children will have been prevented. Assuming that the wild polio virus would be
    eradicated by 2012 or briefly thereafter, this would result in estimated economic benefits of around US$ 40 to
    US$ 50 billion. Low-income countries will benefit in particular from the eradication of polio, since they carry the
    largest burden. The study states that additional benefits through the supply of Vitamin A and other interventions
    included in the Global Polio Eradication Initiative would add additional benefits between US$ 17 and US$ 90
    billion.

    Several extensions of closing dates to complete project implementation were not necessarily indicative of an
    inefficient use of project resources, since they were caused by external factors such as floods and a worsening
    security situation. However, shortcomings in inventory management for vaccines led to several inefficiencies,
    including manual maintenance of inventory records, lack of regular inventory reconciliation, delays in supplying
    stores with OPVs, and delays in developing an OPV mapping document as requested by UNICEF to procure
    vaccines. Taking these shortcomings and the lack of a project-level economic efficiency analysis into account,
    efficiency is rated Modest.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Relevance of objectives was high due to the increase of polio cases in Pakistan since 2008. Relevance of design
    was substantial, as project design took advantage of existing systems and used IDA’s buy-down mechanism.
    The objective to assist the government in implementation of the PEI to eradicate polio was modestly achieved.
    Efficiency is rated modest due to challenges with inventory management. Taken together, these ratings are
    indicative of significant shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome
    rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The eradication of polio will continue to be challenging in Pakistan, as it will require the mobilization of sufficient
    financing, reaching target populations in areas with security concerns, and addressing the changing epidemiology
    of the disease. Pakistan and its international partners will need to continue their efforts to move the eradication
    agenda forward. Therefore, the risk to development outcome is rated Significant.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:
a. Quality at entry:

   During project preparation, the Bank consulted with staff from previous polio eradication efforts and
   collaborated with other development partners such as WHO and UNICEF to take lessons learned into
   account and to assess the government’s polio eradication strategy. The Bank used an innovative buy-down
   lending tool that gave the government the opportunity to have access to financial resources at a lower cost
   when the IDA credit is paid off or converted to a grant. Project design took advantage of existing M&E
   arrangements.

   While the Bank identified relevant risk factors such as limited access to targeted populations in areas with
   security concerns, mitigation efforts were not sufficient.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team experienced a high turnover of Task Team Leaders throughout project implementation.
   However, the ICR (p. 18) states that there were no indications that this had a negative impact on the
   supervision of project implementation. The Bank team conducted regular joint supervision missions with other
   development partners. Also, the Bank team was responsive to the requests by the government and
   restructured the project five times to adapt the project to changing circumstances. The Bank team identified
   shortcomings in the inventory management, prompting the government, in cooperation with UNICEF, to
   initiate a review. According to the ICR (p. 11), M&E data were used to inform decision-making.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Several ministries of the government were responsible for the implementation of the project, impacting
   implementation effectiveness. Between 2009 and 2011, the Expanding Program on Immunization Cell within
   the Ministry of Health was responsible for implementation. The 18th Amendment to the Constitution of
   Pakistan on July 1, 2011 moved this responsibility to the Ministry of Interprovincial Coordination. The
   government and UNICEF signed a special procurement agreement that allowed the Ministry of Interprovincial
   Coordination to decide the type and the amount of vaccines for each supplementary immunization activity
   round. Also in 2011, a Polio Monitoring Cell was established at the Prime Minister’s Office and took over
   responsibility for oversight and technical guidance for the national polio eradication campaign. This resulted in
   a stronger focus on the polio program and improved political and administrative commitment to the program.
   However, this also led to coordination challenges between the polio eradication initiative and routine
   immunization activities. In 2013, the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination was
   established and became responsible for the federal functions of the expanded program for immunization, the
   polio eradication initiative, and other health activities. Having all immunization activities under one ministry
   helped to improve coordination.

   In 2011, the government developed the National Emergency Action Plan 2011 for the eradication of polio to
   address the increase in polio cases due to population movements following the flood in 2010 and the limited
   implementation of vaccination campaigns in conflict areas. However, according to the ICR (p. 5), poor
   implementation of strategies in critical areas resulted in an increase in polio cases. The government tried to
   address this issue by developing an intensified National Emergency Action Plan for 2012 and continued to
   develop these plans on an annual basis. However, the ICR (p. 13) states that weak accountability did not
   allow for effective management of supplementary immunization activities and OPV use.

  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The project was implemented by the Government. Therefore, there is no separate rating for an implementing
    agency.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Not Applicable

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The Results Framework in the PAD (p. 22) included three PDO indicators and two intermediate outcome
   indicators. The objective of the project was clearly specified and reflected by the indicators. The indicators were
   measurable in terms of numbers and timing.

   The project used existing M&E arrangements that had been established under previous projects. A group of
   national and international experts reviewed and provided advice on the Polio Eradication Initiative on an annual
   basis. The unit responsible for the Expanded Program for Immunization provided the baseline data for the
   selected indicators.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Coverage data on supplementary immunization activities was reported on a regular basis. Data on indicators was
   collected on the district level by semi-independent teams including national and district staff and WHO/UNICEF
   consultants. However, a 2012 UNICEF report found that there were several shortcomings in the data collection
   process. The report found that there was not sufficient time at the end of each campaign day for developing
   reports, which led to errors. Also, in two supplementary immunization activities, data was collected verbally or via
   mobile text, and lacked paper records. Therefore, the reliability of the collected data is questionable. The ICR
   does not comment on how the government or the Bank addressed these issues.


c. M&E Utilization:

   M&E data was used to target geographical areas and population groups and plan supplementary immunization
   activities. Also, based on M&E data, the Bank suggested a revision of the current technical and implementation
   strategy.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   According to the PAD (p. 15), the project did not trigger any safeguard policies.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management

   UNICEF was responsible for the financial management of the project. UNICEF had to submit semi-annual
   financial reports to the government of Pakistan, which then had to report to the Bank. UNICEF’s financial reports
   were submitted late throughout the entire implementation period. The ICR (p. 11) comments that UNICEF’s weak
   contract management and different financial year periods might have contributed to these delays.
    Procurement

    UNICEF was also responsible for the procurement of OPV. UNICEF had to provide information to the
    government, with a copy to the Bank, on an semiannual basis regarding: i) purchase orders placed by UNICEF,
    ii) actual quantities of OPV delivered to the National Institute of Health, and iii) expenditure from the OPV
    procurement account during the reporting period.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (p. 20) identifies valuable lessons, including the following:

         Using already existing program management systems allows for a much faster implementation start. In
          this project, implementation structures from previous projects were utilized, and a project-specific
          implementing agency was not set up, which saved time and money since skilled staff were already
          available and paid out of the government’s budget. This made the sustainability of project outcomes after
          project closing more likely.
         Polio eradication efforts can be integrated into routine immunization strengthening, not diverting resources
          from Pakistan’s Expanded Program on Immunization.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is well written and provides a good overview of project preparation and implementation. The ICR is
    concise and internally consistent. However, the ICR does not provide a project-specific economic efficiency
    analysis and could have provided more details when discussing challenges or weaknesses such as in the
    government’s implementation of the National Emergency Plan.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
