THE WORL) BANK                                     Islamabad Office          Telephone: (92 51) 2279641-6
< " I NATIONAL 14NK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND )EVELOPI ENT  20-A, Shahrah-e-Jamhuriat, G-5/1  Facsimile: (92 51) 2279648-9
IN VRNATIONAL I)EVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION              Islamabad, Pakistan       Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1025
September 13, 2013
Ms. Nargis Sethi
Secretary
Economic Affairs Divisiori                 f n
Government of Pakistan                         OFFICIAL
Islamabad
IslaabadDOCUMENTS
Mr. Imtiaz Inayat Elahi
Secretary
Ministry of National Health Servi .es
Regulation and Coordination
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad
C -- Excellencies,
PAKISTAN:: Amen Iment of the Second Additional Financing for the
-.                        Thircd P,rtne rship for Polio Eradication Project
ID, A Financing Cr. 5169-PK
I refer to the Finan.cir g Agreement dated October 24, 2012 between the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan (the Recipie at) and the International Development Association (the
Association), for the financing of the Second Additional Financing for the Third
Partnership for Polio EradicEtion Project (the Project), Credit 5169-PK (the Financing
Agreement). I also refer to the discussions and communications between the Recipient
L I    and the Associatioa during the c)urse of Project preparation about the possibility of a
buy-down of the Credit.
I am pleased to inforr yoi that the Association is now in a position to provide for
the possibility of a partial buy-doN m of the Credit.
oi
U                   For this purpose, he As, ociation hereby amends the Financing Agreement as
follows:
1. A new Sectior 2.09 is added in Article II of the Financing Agreement as
follows:
"2.09.    The Associ ition shall:
(a) as administrator of the GPEP Trust Fund and on behalf of the
Recipielat, pay the Commitment Charge, the Service Charge and the
]nterest Charge, as they fall due under this Agreement, up to the earlier
of: (i) the Partial Buy-Down Deadline Date; or ii) the Partial Buy- -  0
,               Down Complel ion Date;                    00
L  Tel( phonE  (92 51) 2279641-6  FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿PNkistan: Cr. 5169-PK                -2-                      September 13, 2013
Second Additional F nancinE fco the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
(b) upon the a,-hie /ement of the Assignment Trigger, and pursuant to the
terms ol' te Prtial Assignment and Release Agreement substantially
in the for. set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement: (i) acting in its
capacity as lender, assign its rights, title and interest in the Partial Buy-
Down Det t to the Association as administrator of the GPEP Trust
Fund u-on receipt of the Charges Subsidy Amount and the Partial
Repayaieni An ount; and (ii) as administrator of the GPEP Trust Fund,
release and di charge the Recipient from its payment obligations in
relation to he Partial Buy-Down Debt and cancel such indebtedness;
(c) followir.g the Partial Buy-Down Completion Date, acting in its
capacity as len ler, waive its right, title and interest to the payment of
any Servic,- Charge and Interest Charge by the Recipient under this
Agreeme.nt, w th respect to any amount of the Credit remaining
outstanding af er the Partial Buy-Down; provided always that the
Associai:ion, a,.ting in its capacity as lender, shall be entitled to
paymeni. of Se rvice Charge and Interest Charge in respect of any
principE I anou -t of the Credit remaining outstanding after the Partial
Buy-Down tha is not repaid on due date as provided by the terms of
this Agi eement;
(d) acting ia its capacity as lender, notify the Recipient of the revised
iepaymont sch(dule for the principal amount of the Credit remaining
outstanding aft, er the Partial Buy-Down;
(e) acting i:i it; capacity as lender, be entitled to retain the full amount of
any Chzirge s St bsidy Amount that it receives in respect of any portion
of the Cr ,dit that is subsequently prepaid by the Recipient in
accordaice wit 1 the terms of this Agreement."
2. A new Schedule 4 to he Financing Agreement, Form of Partial Assignment
and Release Ag reemen t, is added as follows:
"SCHEDULE 4
Form of Paitial Assignment and Release Agreement
Partial Assignment and Release Agreement
AGREEMENT, da.ed      _                   , between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN (the Reciplent) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Asscciation acting in its capacity as lender and as administrator of
th.- Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Fund.
WHEREAS: (A) the Reci ient has been determined to be eligible for assistance
from the Global Program to Era(.icate Poliomyelitis Trust Fund (the Trust Fund) upon
U Telephone (92 51) 2279641-6 I FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿Pakistan: Cr. 5169-PK                 -3-                      September 13, 2013
Second Additional Financing fo- the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
successful completion of he Sec )nd Additional Financing for the Third Partnership for
Polio Eradication Project (the Iroject) as described in Schedule 1 to the Financing
Agreement between the R:.cipieni and the Association dated
(the Financing Ag-eemenl), .hro igh the transfer of the Partial Buy-Down Debt to the
Association as administratOr (of th, Trust Fund;
(B)    the Assockitioa h- s received a performance audit report from an entity
selected by the Association, sating that the Project has been successfully carried out; and
(C)    upon paymimt of t te Charges Subsidy Amount and the Partial Repayment
Amount, the Association in its capacity as lender is prepared to transfer its claim for
payment of the Partial Buy-Down Debt to the Association as administrator of the Trust
Fund, following which thc Assoc lation, as administrator of the Trust Fund, shall cancel
such claims and release ard discharge the Recipient from such debt to the extent of such
payment.
NOW THEREFOR E t ae p irties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.0'. Unle:;s the c :ntext otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Financing Agreemeni, i i tl e Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have th,- respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Partial Assignment
Section 2.01. In co:isideral ion of the payment of the Charges Subsidy Amount of
United   States
Dollars   (US$_   _    __9      and   the   Partial  Repayment     Amount    of
_ __ U iited States Dollars (US$            ), receipt of
wNhich is hereby aclnowledged, the- Association in its capacity as lender hereby transfers,
assigns and sets over the Partial Bi ty-Down Debt and all the Association's rights, title and
irlerest therein to the Asscciation as administrator of the Trust Fund, and its successors
and assigns.
Section 2.02. Notwithstan ling the transfer and assignment of the Partial Buy-
Down Debt to the Association is administrator of the Trust Fund, the Association
a(:.<nowledges and agrees hal the Association as administrator of the Trust Fund, does
not assume and shall not be resp nsible for any of the liabilities or obligations of the
Association in its capacity is lender under, or in respect of, the Financing Agreement.
L relephone: (92 51) 2279641-6 Q FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿Fakistan: Cr. 5169-PK                -4-                      September 13, 2013
Second Additional Financinj for the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
ARTICLE III
Repr sentations and Warranties
Section 3.0 [. The Associa ion hereby represents and warrants that:
(a)   it is the sole bene icial owner of the Partial Buy-Down Debt with good
and marketable title thereto free and clear of any liens, mortgages, security interests,
charges, encumbrances oi rights of others (except for the rights of the Association as
administrator of the Trusi: Fund under this Agreement) and is exclusively entitled to
possess and dispose of the Paitial Buy-Down Debt in accordance with this Agreement;
(b)   it has all n!ce,,sar3 power and authority to enter into, execute and deliver
this Agreement and to cart y out it; obligations hereunder;
(c)   the execution -nd (elivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the
transactions evidenced an(" contei mplated hereby or hereunder have been duly authorized
by all necessary acl ion on its part;
(d)   this Agreement constitutes its valid and binding agreement and obligation
enforceable and effective in a,cor lance with its terms; and
(e)   the perform ance ol its obligations under this Agreement does not and will
not conflict with: (i) any appl icab e law or regulation or any judicial order in effect at the
date hereof; (ii) its constitutive do:-uments; or (iii) any agreement or document to which it
is a party or which is binding on i-.
Section 3.02. For the pui pose of this Agreement, the Recipient represents and
warrants that:
(a)   it is obligated to make payments to the Association in its capacity as
lender with respect to th.,- Farti,.l Buy-Down Debt under the terms of the Financing
Agreement;
(b)   its liabilities in re. pect of the Partial Buy-Down Debt are not subject to
reduction or diminution in any m inner whatsoever including, without limitation, by way
of set-off, compensation, c ouiiterc laim, defense, damages or otherwise; and
(c)   it hereby irrevocab [y consents to the transfer and assignment of the Partial
Buy-Down Debt to the A!!sociation, as administrator of the Trust Fund, pursuant to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Partial Release
LI Telfphone: (92 51) 2279641-6 I FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿Pakistan: Cr. 5169-PK                -5-                      September 13, 2013
Second Additional Financing for the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
Section 4.01. Save is frovided in Section 4.02 below, the Association, as
administrator of the Trust FLnd, having become the owner under this Agreement of the
Partial Buy-Down Debt, hereby irrevocably and unconditionally releases and forever
cscharges the Recipient from  any and all liabilities and payment obligations of
xwhatsoever nature, whether Frese at or future, arising in relation to the Partial Buy-Down
Debt, which are hereby irrevc cab y cancelled.
Section 4.02. Notwithstan ling the provisions of Section 4.01 above, the liabilities
and payment obligations of the R -cipient with respect to any portion of the Credit which
is not comprised in the Pirtial Bity-Down Debt, including without limitation all Service
Charge and Interest Charge that may accrue on any portion of the Withdrawn Credit
Balance that is not repaid on dLe date in accordance with the terms of the Financing
Agreement, shall not be affec :ed 1by the execution of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Enforcealbility of Ag reeimnent; Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 5.01. The rights and obligations of the Recipient and the Association
under this Agreement sh,ll be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms
notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary.
Neither the Recipient nor the As: ociation shall be entitled in any proceeding under this
Article to assert any claim that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or
unenforceable because of any pro -ision of the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
Section 5.02. No d;elay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or
remedy accruing tc either party u ader this Agreement upon any default shall impair any
such right, power or remedy or b construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in
such default. No action of su-h party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it
in any default, shall affect or imp air any right, power or remedy of such party in respect
of any other or subsequent de'ault
Section 5.03. (a) Any coni roversy between the parties to this Agreement, and any
claim by either suc'I party agz.inst the other party arising under this Agreement which has
not been settled by agreement cf the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by an
Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter pr )vided.
(b)   The parties to ,uch arbitration shall be the Association and the Recipient.
(c) The Arbitral TribL nal shall consist of three (3) arbitrators appointed as
follows: one arbitrator shall be ap oointed by the Association, a second arbitrator shall be
appointed by the Recipie:rt, and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called the
U npire) shall be appointed by ag -eement of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the
President of the In1ernatioaal Cot rt of Justice or, failing appointment by said President,
by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either of the parties shall fail to
a:point an arbitrator, such arbitiator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any
W Telephone (92 51) 2279641-6 Q FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿Pakistan: Cr. 5169-PK                    -6-                       September 13, 2013
Second Additional Financing fo- the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
arbitrator appointed in acc orc anc, with this Section shall resign, die or become unable to
act, a successor arbitrator shall bc appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for
the appointment of the original z rbitrator, and such successor shall have all the powers
and duties of such original arbitra or.
(d)    An arbitrati on proc eeding may be instituted under this Section upon notice
by the party instituting siich pro,.eeding to the other party. Such notice shall contain a
statement setting forth tie natt re of the controversy or claim to be submitted to
aibitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the
party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty (30) days after such notice, the other
party shall notify to the paity i istituting such proceeding the name of the arbitrator
appointed by such other party.
(e)    If within ;ix1y (60) days after the notice instituting the arbitration
proceeding, the pa-ties shill not iave agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request
the appointment of an Um -)ire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f) The Arbitral Tribi nal shall convene at such time and place as shall be
fixed by the Umpire. Thereaf:er, 'he Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when it
shall sit.
(g) The Arbitr.l Tribu mal shall decide all questions relating to its competence
and shall, subject to the provistons of this Section and except as the parties shall
otherwise agree, determin. it3 procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be
by majority vote.
(h)    The Arbitral Tribi nal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and shall
render its award in writing. S ich iward may be rendered by default. An award signed by
a majority of the Arbitral 'Fri :un.1 shall constitute the award of such Tribunal. A signed
counterpart of the award s hall be transmitted to each party. Any such award rendered in
accordance with th. provi:ions ol this Section shall be final and binding upon the parties
to this Agreement. Each rarty shill abide by and comply with any such award rendered
by the Arbitral Tribunal in accord ince with the provisions of this Section.
(i)    The parties shall fi,, the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators and
such other persons as shalt be re( uired for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings. If
the parties shall no' agree on 3ucl amount before the Arbitral Tribunal shall convene, the
Arbitral Tribunal shall fix su-h a mount as shall be reasonable under the circumstances.
Each party shall each defraLy its o vn expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of
the Arbitral Tribunal shall b- di vided between and borne equally by the parties. Any
question concerning the divis on of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for
payment of such costs shall be del rmined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)    The provisi :ns of   rbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu of any
other procedure for the set tlenent of controversies between the parties to this Agreement
or of any claim by either party ag, inst the other party arising hereunder.
L  Tele phone (92 51) 2279641-6 W  FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿Pakistan: Cr. 5169-PK                 -7-                     September 13, 2013
S-cond Additional Financing for the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
(k)   The Association shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the
Recipient upon the award, to enf >rce the award against the Recipient by execution or to
pursue any other remedy against the Recipient for the enforcement of the award, except
as such procedure :may be availat le against the Recipient otherwise than by reason of the
provisions of this Section. If wit ain thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award shall
have been delivered to the paities, the award shall not be complied with by the
Association, the Recipieni. r ay take any such action for the enforcement of the award
against the Association.
(1)   Service of my not ce or process in connection with any proceeding under
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered pursuant
to this Section shall be made in t ie manner provided in Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
The parties to this Agreerr eni wa  ve any and all other requirements for the service of any
su[ch notice or process.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in wril ing. Sich notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be c elivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to wh ch it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafte: specil ied or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the par ly giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Recipient:
The Secretary lo th: Government of Pakistan
Economic Afflirs Division
Islariabad, )akistai
Cable address:            Telex:             Facsimile:
ECCNOMIC                  ECDIV-05-634       92 51 9205971
Islamabad                                    92 51 9218976
For the Association:
International De-vel )pment Association
1818 H Street, N.1A.
Wasaington, D,C. '0433
United States of Ar ierica
L Telehone (92 51) 2279641-6 L FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿Pakistan: Cr. 5169-PK               -8-                     September 13, 2013
'econd Additional Financing fo the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
Cable address:           Telex:             Facsimile:
INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI) or    (202) 477-6391
Washingtor, LD.C.        64145 (MCI)
Section 6.02. This Agreem 3ent may be executed in several counterparts, each of
Vhich shall be an original.
Section 6.0.3. This Agreei rient shall become effective upon its execution by the
parties.
IN WITNESS WH. R-OF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC I,EPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Rep esentative
Name:       MUHAMM       A$IF
Additional Becretary
Cconomic Affairs Division
Title:     Onverment of fPkistan
Islamabad
INT>10(NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(actiiig n it! capacities as lender and as Administrator of the
Global 3rog ram to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Fu d)
By
Authorized Representative
Name:        Rachid Benmessaoud
Title: Country Director - Pakistan
3. Section 3.01 of Article II[ of the Financing Agreement is amended as follows:
"The Recipient dichres ts commitment to the objectives of the Project and the
Program. To this end, t he Recipient shall carry out the Project through the
Expanded Program :)n Immunization Unit of the MoNHSRC, in accordance
LA  eleF hone: :92 51) 2279641-6 U  FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿Pakistan: Cr. 5169-PK                -9-                      September 13, 2013
Second Additional Financing fcr the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
with the provision, of Article IV of the General Conditions and the Program
Implementation Plan."
4. Section I of the Append ix to the Financing Agreement is amended as follows:
"APPENDIX
Section I.   Definition;
1.    "Anti-Corruption Guidel ines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud imd Co ruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.
2.    "Assignment Trigger" mc ans the receipt by the Association of the Performance
Audit Report, satisf'aciory to the Association.
3.    "Category" means the catogory set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
4.    "Charges S-.bsidy Amoun t" means an amount (as reasonably determined by the
Association using pr.vai ing exchange and interest rates) to be paid to the
Association under Section 2.09(b) of this Agreement, being the Dollar equivalent
of the net present value of the Service Charge and the Interest Charge payable by
the Recipient to the Asoc ation on the Credit for its full maturity under the terms
of this Agreement.
5.    "Departments of H.alth" means each Department of Health within a district of the
Recipient's territory, or an./ successor thereto.
6     "District Ccordination Co:nmittees" means the committees set up in each of the
Districts of the Recipient pursuant to the national emergency action plan for
poliomyelitis, under th. ch fir of the District Coordination Officers.
7.    "Expanded Program    on Immunization Unit" means the unit within the
MoNHSRC entrust.:d with the implementation of the PEI and the coordination of
the SIA (as hereiafter lefined), as notified pursuant to Economic Affairs
Division's letter Nc. 3(109/2011 -Japan-II, dated August 16, 2012.
8.    "First Additional Finaicin D Agreement" means the financing agreement for the
first additional finanici -g f )r the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project,
between the Recipi:nt and the Association dated June 2, 2011 (Credit No. 4927-
PK).
9.    "General Conditions" mcans the "International Development Association's
General Co aditionm. for Credits and Grants", dated July 31, 2010 with the
modifications set forth in Se-ction II of this Appendix.
U re el hone: (92 51) 2279641-6 U FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿ikistan: Cr. 5169-PK                -10-                     September 13, 2013
Second Additional Financing fo- the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
10.   "Global Program to Erad:cate Poliomyelitis Trust Fund" or "GPEP Trust Fund"
means the :rust fund con,isting of funds contributed to or to be contributed by
donors, including 1 he Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the United Nations
Foundation and administ red by the Association, for the purpose of reducing the
cost to borrowers of cret its provided by the Association for polio eradication
purposes.
1'.   "MoNHSRC" means the Recipient's Ministry of National Health Services,
Regulation and Coord nati )n, and/or any successor thereto.
12.   "National Immuni2:ation E ays" and the acronym "NIDs" mean the dates selected
under the PEl for the Recipient's nationwide administration of OPV.
13.   "National Task Force" me ins the committee established pursuant to Annexure 3-
A of the Recipient's natior al emergency plan of action for polio eradication under
the chair of the Re;-ip ent's Prime Minister, responsible, inter alia, for providing
inter-provin.-ial and in :er-s actoral coordination for the Polio Eradication Initiative.
14.   "OPV" means the oral polio vaccine.
15.    "OPV Procuremer t Agre(ment" means the agreement entered into between the
Recipient's governme -t a id UNICEF, for the procurement of OPV under the
Project, and to be a nendec pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
16.   "Original Financing Agre.-ment" means the financing agreement for a Third
Partnership for P:)lio E adication Project between the Recipient and the
Association, dated July 3, .009 (Credit No. 4616-PK).
17.   "Original Project" mean, the Project described in the Original Financing
Agreement.
18.   "Partial Ass gnment and R,-lease Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 2.09 of this Agreenent, to be entered into between the Recipient and the
Association (in its capacity as lender and as administrator of the Trust Fund) upon
the successffl completion ( fthe Project.
19. "Partial Buy-Down" mean! the transfer to the Association as administrator of the
Trust Fund tinder auid in ac:,ordance with this Agreement of the Partial Buy-Down
Debt as set cut in the Parti I Assignment and Release Agreement.
20,   "Partial Buy-Down Ccmpl tion Date" means the date on which the Partial Buy-
Down becomes effective as provided in the Partial Assignment and Release
Agreement, which date sl all be no later than the Partial Buy-Down Deadline
Date.
I ele  hone: 92 51) 2279641-6 LJ FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿Pakistan: Cr. 5169-PK                -11-                     September 13, 2013
Second Additional Financin; fcr the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
21.   "Partial Buy-Dow  Dead ine Date" means the date falling six (6) months after the
Closing Date (or sict lat r date as the Association shall establish by notice to the
Recipient).
22. "Partial Buy-DownI Debt' means an amount (as reasonably determined by the
Associatior) equal to the aggregate of: (i) the Service Charge and the Interest
Charge payable by the F ecipient to the Association on the Credit for its full
maturity under thi:: Agreement; and (ii) a portion of the principal amount of the
Credit.
23.   "Partial Repayment Amot nt" means an amount (as reasonably determined by the
Association using pr.vai ing exchange and interest rates) to be paid to the
Association under Sectior 2.09(b) being the Dollar equivalent of the net present
value of a portion of the principal amount of the Credit as at the Partial Buy-
Down Com.letion Da:e.
2/..  "Performance Auc it Rep )rt" means the report to be furnished by an entity
selected by the Asoc atio r stating that the Project has been successfully carried
out based upon th.- result3 of its independent performance audit on the agreed
indicators set out iii parag -aph 1 (b)(i) and 1 (b)(ii) of Section II. A of Schedule 2
to this Agre,ment.
25.   "Polio Eradication Ir itial ve" and the acronym  "PEI" mean the Recipient's
initiative to eradicate polic myelitis, which consists of: (i) the procurement, supply
and use of OPV; (ii) tf e SIAs; and (iii) the implementation of a disease
surveillance system to dete ct poliomyelitis cases or outbreaks, and the monitoring
and evaluation of S EAs.
26.   "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting S:rvic es under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borroviers" d, ted January 2011.
27.   "Program Inplementa.ion Plan" means the program implementation plan dated
January 14, 2011, a; armenled to the date of this Agreement, setting out the details
of the implementation arr ngements for the PEl and the Project for the period
2011 to 2013, as the same may be amended and/or extended from time to time
with the agreement of the I ssociation.
28    "Provincial Steering C:)mmittees" means collectively the committees established
pursuant to Annextire 3-C of the Recipient's national emergency plan of action
for polio eradication nd(r the chair of the respective Chief Ministers/Chief
Secretary, of the provinces and territories of the Recipient, responsible, inter alia,
for reviewing and no.iitofing the progress made in the implementation of the
Polio Eradication Initiative in their respective jurisdictions.
L  elep,one  92 51) 2279641-6 U  FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿Fakistan: Cr. 5169-PK                -12-                     September 13, 2013
Second Additional Financing for the Third Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
29.   "Sub-National Immunizat on Days" and the acronym "SNID" mean the dates
selected under the PEI for the Recipient's administration of OPV in selected
(targeted) areas.
30.   "Supplemental Immunizat .on Activities" and the acronym "SIA/SIAs" mean the
Recipient's immu:-lizatior activities which are supplementary to its routine
immunization activities, c nsisting of, inter alia, maintenance of the cold chain
for the OPV, social tr obil [zation, training, NIDs, SNIDs and mop-up operations
conducted under th;- P -I.
31.   "Technical Advisory Group" means an independent group called by the Regional
Director of WHO, compr.sed of global experts (national and international) on
poliomyelitis eradi;:ation and child health immunization, responsible inter alia,
for reviewing the progres, towards interrupting the poliovirus transmission, and
more precisely, overseeinl; the performance of the PEl and providing technical
advice and strategic planni ig for the PEI.
32.   "UNICEF" means the Ur ited Nations Children's Fund, an international inter-
governmental orgalizatior established by the General Assembly of the United
Nations by Resolution No. 57(1) of December 11, 1946.
33.   "WHO" means thc World Health Organization, a United Nations specialized
agency, established pursuant to its constitution adopted by the International
Health Conference he d ir New York on June 19-22, 1946, and in force since
April 7, 1943."
All terms and condition; of the Financing Agreement that have not been amended
hereby shall remain unchar ged and in full force and effect.
Please confirnm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the
coIfirmation on the enclosed cop, of this Amendment to the Financing Agreement and
returning it to the A3sociation.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPM T ASSOCIATION
-.--  ,achid Benmessao d
Cou ntry Director, Pakistan
South Asia Region
L) Telephone: 92 51) 2279641-6 L FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿Fakistan: Cr. 5169-PK                  -13-                     September 13, 2013
Second Additional F nancing for the rhird Partnership for Polio Eradication Project
AGREED AND CONFIRMEID:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC      F PAKIS FAN
N,une-
TitleAdditioinal Secret mry
Title     contombic A  -LAIW]
Government of faki'star
Date            hkunabaid
- elepione: 92 51) 2279641-6 U  FAX (92 51) 2279648-9


﻿No.3(2)WB-III/10
Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
* *** *
From:    Section Off icer (WB-III)
Ph:      9202061                             Islamabad, 9th October, 2013
Fax:     9103821
SUBJECT:     Third Partnership for Polio Eradication PRoject Implerientation
Support Mision - October 8-10, 2013
Dear Sir,
Kind ty refei to the World Bank's letter dated 13th September, 2013
on the above subject.
.           The amendmen: let er in respect of the subject project duly signed by the
c ompet' at authority (in orig ina .) is iereby forwarded for further necessary action please.
With regard s,
Sincerely,
W(Muhammad Saleh)
Mr. Rachid Benmes ;aoid
Country Director,
World Bank.
Islamabad.


