Docume  of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICL4L USE ONLY
Report No. 5890-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRA ZI L
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 26, 1986
Urban Projects Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   1
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984                   February 28. 1986
Currency Unit - Cruzeiro (Cr$) Currency Unit - Cruzado(Cz$)
US51 - CR$1,952                 US$1 - CzS}3.87
Cr$1 - US$.000512               Cz$l - US$.072464
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNB             -   Banco do Nordeste
(Northeast Development Bank)
BNUDES          -   Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(National Bank for Economic and Social Development)
BNH             -   Banco Nacional da Habitacao
(National Housing Bank)
CIA             -   Centro Industrial de Aracu
(Aratu Industrial Center)
CNDU            -   Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Urban Development Council)
GONDER          -   Companhia de Desenvolvimento da Regiao Metropolitana
(Salvador Metropolitan Development Agency)
COPEC           -   Complexo Petroquimico de Camacari
(Camacari Petro-Chemical Complex)
DESENBANCO      -   Banco de Desenvolvimento do Esrado da Bahia
(Bahia State Development Bank)
EMBASA          -   Empresa Bahiana de Aguas e Saneamento
(Bahia State Water Company)
FEREM           -   Fundo Especial de Equipamento da Regiao Metropolicana
de Salvador
(Salvador Metropolitan Development Fund)
HAMESA          -   Habitacao e Melhoramento, S.A.
(Behia State Housing Improvement Company)
ICM             -   Imposto sobre a Circulacao de Hercadoria
(Value Added Sales Tax)
IPTU            -   Imposto Predial e Territorial Urbano
(Urban Property Tax)
ISS             -   Imposto Sobre Servicos
(Services Tax)
MDU             -   Ministerio de Desenvolvicento Urbano e Meio Ambiente
(Ministry of Urban Development and the Environment)
SDU             -   Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(Secretariat of Urban Development of MDU)
SEPLAN          -   Secretaria de Planejasento da Presidencla da Republica
(Presidential Planning Secretariat)
SEPLANTEC       -   Secretaria de Planejamento. Ciencia e Tecnologia do
Estado da Bahia
(Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology of the
State of Bahia)
SUDENE          -   Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Norcheast Development Superintendency)
URBIS           -   Habitacao e Urbanizacao, S.A.
(Bahia State Housing and Urban Development Company)



BRAZIL           FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..... ........................ 0.. iii-v
I.   THE SECTOR   .     ................................................. 
Sector Developmentand Organization ..... ................         I
Subsector Constraints ..     ...................................   2
The State of Bahia and the Metropolitan Region of Salvador ..   2
Government Strategy and the Bank's Role .....................   4
II. THE PROJECT . ................................................   5
Project Objectives ........   ........................            5
Project Description ......     ...................................    5
Project Implementation   ......................................   7
Project Cost, Financing and Cost Recovery Plan ..............     8
Procurement and Disbursement       ................................  12
Benefits and Risks ..........................................   14
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....     ................  15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Brazil in July 1985. The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes.
P. Midgley (mission leader), S. Whitehead, A. Zuniga, LCPUR: D. Williams,
WUD; C. Crabbe, LC2; J. Brakarz, R. Gilbert, J. Hicks and H. Ryon (CONS).
Mmes. A. Francois and A. Gonzalez assisted in the production of the report.
This document ha a retriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Table of Contents (con't)
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX l: Tables
Table 1: Project Costs by Component
Table 2: Project Costs and Contingencies Calculations
Table 3: Investment Schedule by Major Component
Table 4:  Project Financing Plan
Table 5: Implementation and Cost Recovery Arrangements
Table 6: Implementation Schedule
Table 7: Key Indicators
Table 8: Loan Disbursement Schedule
Table 9: Economic and Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEX 2: Project Components
ANNEX 3: Institutional Development
ANNEX 4: Financial Analysis
ANNEX 5:  Selected Reference Documents and Data Available  in  the
Project File
MAP
IBRD Map 19298R: Brazil - Salvador Metropolitan Development Project



-iii-
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Project Executing
Agency:             Planning Secretariat of the State of Bahia (SEPLANTEC)
Salvador  Metropolitan  Development  Agency  (CONDER)
Ministry of Urban Development and the Environment
(MDU)
Amount:             US$55 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries:      The project would mainly benefit the nine municipali-
ties comprising the Salvador Metropolitan Region (SMR)
which has 2.0 million people.  About 65% of the popula-
tion falls below the poverty line, earning less than
three minimum salaries.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would make US$500,000 available to its
Ministry of Urban Development and the Environment for
management studies.    It would also make  available
US$54.5 million to the State of Bahia on the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan.  The State of Bahia
would assume the foreign exchange risk. It would lend
US$15 million to the Salvador Metropolitan Development
Fund (FEREM) on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan. The remaining US$39.5 million would be made
available to FEREM on a grant basis. FEREK would on-
lend US$39.4 million to the SMR municipalities and
US$8.4 million to CONDER for 10-18 years including up
to three years of grace at 6% interest. The remaining
US$6.7 million would be made available to CONDER as
grants to finance technical assistance.
Project
Description:        The proposed project would provide a line of credit
(subloans) to the municipalities of the Salvador Metro-
politan Region (SMR) to finance priority investments in
its Development Plan.  Previously, FEREN financing to
the municipalities was provided on a grant basis.  It



- iv -
would also provide technical assistance to the Borrow-
er's MDU to help develop management programs for other
metropolitan areas and to CONDER to strengthen manage-
ment of the SMR. The subloans would be complemented by
loans from the Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BHN) and by
grant funding from the Federal Government and the State
of Bahia.   The subloans would finance the following
investments: upgrading of low-income communities (site
development,   drainage,   pre-fabricated   staircases,
community facilities and basic sanitation); infrastruc-
ture (access roads between industrial and residential
areas); municipal services (solid waste collection and
disposal facilities, a maintenance program including
depots and equipment, for drainage and roads, and 11
markets for perishable goods); productive activities
(site preparation, construction and equipment). FEREM
would provide grant financing for: community training
in basic maintenance (to complement investments in up-
grading); training in production techniques and manage-
ment (to complement investments in productive activi-
ties); and i.-stitutional development (fiscal and finan-
cial management, updating cadastres, tax collection and
enforcement, historic preservation and metropolitan
planning, policies and management). The project would
focus on strengthening the capabilities of the SMR to
plan, finance and execute priority projects on the
basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank. It would imr-
prove the management of municipal finances by strength-
ening revenue generating mechanisms including cost
recovery. It would also introduce the use of subloans
to finance municipal services in Brazil's Northeast, an
area that has traditionally relied on federal and state
grants.
Risks:              Timely execution of the project would depend upon the
collaboration and coordination of the various entities
participating in the project: MDU, CONDER, BNH, the
municipalities and State agencies.  This risk is con-
sibered to be small in view of the Bank's experience
with these entities in other projects and would be
further mitigated by the strengthening of municipal
management and CONDER under the project. The positive
impact of the project on municipal finances would be
reduced if fiscal reforms were not implemented or if
subloans from the FEREM were not paid in a timely way.
This risk is offset by the State's commitment to
improve municipal finances and by the withholding of
municipal tax revenues by the State as collateral.



pRr ~ ~ ~~~s cssr S
- - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  -l
US$ mflllrn
EstUated Cost by Corpneint                               Local  Foreiga  Total
A. Upgradirg                                              22.0      9.6      31.6
B. ILfrastructure                                         12.0      8.4     20.4
C. Minicpal Services                                      18.5    15.0      33.5
D. Prodicti'ie Activities                                  3.7      1.5      5.2
E. Institionsl Development                                 6.2      2.2      8.4
F. Technical Assistane                                    0.3      0.2       0.5
G. Mkagmient of Metropolitan Areas                        0.4      0.2       0.6
H. Adlanistration                                          1.5     0.5       2.0
Base Cost                                                64.6    37.6    102.2
Pbysical  onnricies                                      8.5     4.8       13.3
Price Contingencies                                     22.3    13.2      35.5
Contirgencies                                             30.8    18.0      48.8
TUMAL PRIECr oDSr                                         95.4    55.6    151.0
H E~~~                      ~                                -
Back                                                  -       55.0     55.0
Federal Qoveroment                                   29.8      0.2     30.0
State of Bahia                                       65.6     0.4      66.0
EstimatedDi      ents
Bank Fiscal Year
1986    1987    1988   1989    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  1995
Anrual        4.4a/   3.0     5.7    7.7      8.7    8.7      7.7    5.7    3.0    0.4
Qmulative   4.4      7.4    13.1   20.8   29.5   38.2   45.9   51.6   54.6   55.0
Rate of Return 16Zb/
a/ Including initial deposit of US$3.0 million into the Special Accomnt.
bl Weigbted average caloulated for comspnents totalling 84% of total project costs.



PART I - THE SECTOR
Sector Development and Organization
1.01       In the past thirty years Brazil has shifted from an agrarian,
rural society to an industrialized, urban one.  During this period, its
cities absorbed waves of migration from rural areas.  While the national
population doubled from 52 million in 1950 to 119 million in 1980, the ur-
ban population quadrupled from 19 million to 80 million. Most of the urban
growth has been in Brazil's central west and southern cities (Brasilia,
Belo Horizonte, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro) where economic opportunities
are more available and as a result both rural and urban migrants have
gravitated toward them in search of employment.
1.02        The rapid urbanization of Brazilian society created heavy de-
mands for additional housing, social services and infrastructure.  State
and local authorities, traditionally responsible for meeting ths'se needs,
became increasingly unable to meet their growing financial obligations. In
1964 the Government took measures to centralize housing finance by creating
the Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH), the national housing bank.  BNH
administers and controls the housing finance system which provides financ-
ing for a broad range of shelter-related services, within the framework of
the national low-income housing plan (PLANHAB), the national  sites and
services program to provide shelter to the poor (PROFILURB), and the
national sanitation plan  (PLANASA).   Both  the housing and  sanitation
programs were aided at the local level by establishing State-owned housing
companies (COHABS), and state water companies in 22 of Brazil's states. In
order to resolve urban transport problems in Brazilian cities, the Empresa
Brasileira de Transporte Urbano (EBTU) was established in 1976 to coordi-
nate, plan and provide financing for urban transport investments. To co-
ordinate urban planning, the Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbana
(CNDU) was established in 1979.  Recently, in March 1985, the Ministry of
Urban Development and Environment (MDU) was established and CNDU became
part of it. The creation of MDU should further enhance urban development
planning and policy formulation at the national level.
1.03        Over the past decade Brazil has expanded its housing, infra-
structure and social services with the support of these sector organiza-
tions. Most of its efforts have been directed toward the large metropoli-
tan areas of the south and center west where population increases have been
greatest. It has also taken measures to influence the heavy migration from
rural to urban areas through a policy of developing the interior (interior-
izacao), providing basic needs to small farmers, upgrading conditions in
medium-sized towns to encourage residents to stay and providing for settle-
ment of agriculturally productive but less populated areas such as Amazonia
and the Northwest. To some extent these measures mny have been successful
as evidenced by the decline in migration to large centers like Sao Paulo
and Rio de Janeiro.



-2-
Subsector Constraints
1.04      Increases in the scale of urban poverty have placed heavy demands
on the sector institutions at the national level which have not been able
to meet basic needs in all areas of Brazil.  Thus, while the 1960s and
1970s witnessed great strides in the provision of housing and services,
some regions and cities, notably in the Northeast and small towns, benefit-
ed less than others. A second major constraint is that sector institutions
at the local level are for the most part weak and do not coordinate their
activities. There is a lack of adequate planning, programming and budget-
ing, analysis of revenues, tax assessment, collection and cost recovery,
reliable information systems and trained technical staff.   As a result,
investments have tended to be politically motivated rather than selected on
least cost criteria and little attention has been given to effective
resource allocation. The third major constraint is that urban improvements
have traditionally been financed almost entirely by federal and state
grants, particularly in the Northeast, where local authorities have not
been encouraged to improve their fiscal resource base, thus placing a heavy
drain on Government revenues. The recently uneven and unreliable flow of
grant funds to local governments has also made it difficult for them to
plan or undertake investment programs, to set priorities and allocate
resources in an efficient way.   This situation has worsened since 1980,
because scarce Federal Government resources were concentrated on supporting
agricultural and industrial investments, while resources for urban and
social  investment programs were reduced.   There is an urgent need to
strengthen municipal finance throughout Brazil and especially in the North-
east region in order to reduce the reliance on federal and state transfers
and to strengthen the capacity of local authorities to plan, select and
finance priority investments from local resources and execute them effec-
tively.
The State of Bahia and the Metropolitan Region of Salvador
1.05        The State of Bahia is the largest state in Brazil's poorest
region, the Northeast.   Like the rest of the Northeast its per capita
income is low, representing only 40% of the national average and over half
the State suffers from chronic droughts which make agricultural production
unreliable.
1.06        Over the past 30 years, Bahia's population, like the rest of
Brazil's, has shifted from rural to urban areas. While the State's popula-
tion doubled from 4.9 million in 1950 to 9.6 million in 1980, the urban
population more than tripled from 1.3 million in 1950 to 4.7 million in
1980. The Salvador Metropolitan Region (SMR), comprising the Municipality
of Salvador and eight other municipalitiesl/ witnessed a similar popula-
tion growth from about 417,000 in 1950 to 1.8 million in 1980. Today, with
1/   The nine municipalities comprising the SMR are:  Salvador, Camapari,
Candeias, Dias D'Avila, Itaparica, Lauro de Freitas, San Francisco do
Conde, Simo s Filho and Vera Cruz.



- 3 -
a population of 2 million,  it is the fifth largest metropolitan region in
Brazil and second largest in the Northeast. Its population is forecast to
increase to 2.7 million by 1990 and 3.9 million in the year 2000, placing
heavy demands on local agencies responsible for urban services, especially
on the Municipality of Salvador which provides services to 85% of the SMR's
population. The SMR is comprised of a network of valleys and steep hill-
sides extending southward from Bahia's mainland into the Bay of All Saints
on the west and the Atlantic Ocean on the south and east (Map IBRD
19298R). The majority of low-income neighborhoods in the SMR are favelas
located on the hillsides, constantly threatened by landslides during heavy
rains. Because of the difficult terrain, the cost of providing infrastruc-
ture in the SMR, and upgrading these favelas, is great because of the
extensive drainage and stabilization works required.
1.07        Since colonial times, Bahia has been an important agricultural
state despite its affliction from droughts. Today it produces 92% of the
country's cacao, 60% of its sisal and 47% of its castor beaas, exports
which largely pass through the Port of Salvador.  But beginning in  the
1940s the importance of agricultural crops to Bahia's economy declined, and
was replaced by oil refining and other industries including metals. Petro-
leos Brasileiros, S.A. (PETROBRAS) was among the first to invest in the
area, followed by the establishment of the petrochemical complex (COPEC) in
the Municipality of Caxnaaari, the Aratu Industrial Center (CIA) in the
Municipality of Simoes Filho and the expansion of port facilities in the
Municipality of Salvador. The growth of the industrial and service sectors
has contributed to the shift of commercial and administrative activities
away from the historic center. In 1982, Bahia's foreign exchange earnings
from petrochemicals (including metals) and tourism, amounted to US$750 miLl-
lion and US$45 million, respectively.   It is not surprising that while
agriculture employed 70% of the State's working population in 1970, a
decade later it employed only 50%.
1.08      As in the rest of Brazil, federal agencies such as BNH, CNDU and
EBTU provide services, advice and funding for urban programs in the SMR.
The Salvador Metropolitan Development Agency (CONDER) established in 1967
under the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLANTEC), has primary responsibility
for coordinating, planning, supervising and executing metropolitan develop-
ment programs in the SMR. (Annex 3, Paras. 2 and 3). The Salvador Metropol-
itan Development Fund (FEREM), established in 1073 to finance metropolitan
investments, is administered by CONDER. Up until now FEREM has only chan-
neled federal and state grant funds to local authorities (Annex 4, Para.
11). An important feature of the proposed project is that FEREM would make
subloans to the municipalities in the SMR for the first time.
1.09       Other agencies which provide urban services in the SMR are the
Bahia State Water Company (EMBASA), Housing and Urban Development Company
(URBIS) and Housing Improvement Company (HAMESA).  State agencies such as
these provide water supply and sanitation services (except solid waste col-
lection and disposal which is a municipal function), low-income housing and



- 4 -
community facilities, basic health, education, power and telecommunica-
tions (in association with federal agencies), and transportation.  Other
agencies which are active in the SMR, but do not limit their support to ur-
ban development investments, are the Superintendency for the Development of
the Northeast (SUDENE) and the Northeast Development Bank (BNB) and the
National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES). These agencies
have been particularly active in establishing modern industries and revi-
talizing traditional ones.  The municipalities of the SMR are responsible
for social services, urban cleaning services as well as for providing
feeder roads and streets and for the maintenance of the city's infrastruc-
ture as a whole. The main source of municipal revenues for these activi-
ties is the Imposto sobre Circulagao de Mercadorias (ICM) a value added tax
on agriculture, industry and commerce, the Imposto Predial e Territorial
Urbano (IPTU), an urban property tax, and the Imposto Sobre Servigos (ISS),
a services tax (Annex 4, Para. 22).
Government Strategy and the Bank's Role
1.10      Brazil has made great strides in expanding housing and urban ser-
vices through BNH, EBTU and CNDU.  Bank support in the sector has been
provided through eight urban development projects totalling US$685.5 mil-
lion. One of these, for the Preparation of Metropolitan Development Pro-
grams for Fortaleza and Salvador (Loan 2-93-BR of August 13, 1982 for
US$8.9 million) helped finance the preparation of the SMIR Development Plan,
1985-2000, which forms the basis for the proposed project.  Another loan,
the Recife Metropolitan Region Development Project (Loan 2170-BR of June
28, 1982 for US$123.9 million) represented the first Bank-supported effort
to tackle development issues in a large metropolitan area in Brazil. This
project is proceeding satisfactorily but it differs from the one proposed
as it placed less emphasis on strengthening municipal and metropolitan
finance. Two of the eight projects have been completed, albeit with delays
and some cost overruns, and are considered to have achieved their objec-
tive.   None of the projects have been so far audited by the Operations
Evaluation Department.  In addition to upgrading and expanding low-income
housing, shelter and services, the Bank-supported projects have also con-
tributed to the preparation of investment plans, training and strengthening
of municipal staff, standardizing the COHAB's procedures and, decentral-
izing BNH's preparation and supervision activities to regional offices.
The Bank's role has helped to improve planning and coordination of urban
investments by supporting the creation of CNDU, and of urban transport
investments by supporting the development and strengthening of EBTU.  The
Bank was also instrumental in promoting an Urban Development Seminar in
Brasilia in November 1984. The seminar has laid the foundation for reshap-
ing urban policy to support macroeconomic objectives, and permit economic
growth, while achieving social objectives.  The Government is now turning
its attention to projects such as this which reinforce this new strategy.



- 5 -
PART II - THE PROJECT
2.01       In 1982 the Government asked the Bank to assist It in preparing
investment programs for the important Northeast metropolitan areas of
Salvador and Fortaleza. The project which resulted (Loan 2193-BR), financ-
ed the Development Plan which forms the cornerstone of the project. The
project was identified in December 1984 and appraised in July 1985. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington in December 1985.  The Brazilian dele-
gation was led by Dr. Ricardo Guimaraes Pinho, Presidential Planning Secre-
tariat.
Project Objectives
2.02        The objectives of the project are to strengthen the financial
capacity of metropolitan and municipal agencies, support increased economic
productivity of the metropolitan region, improve resource allocation, and
reduce the demand for federal and state transfers.   In doing this, the
project would also contribute to the decentralization of urban administra-
tion and financial management.   The investments included in the project
form part of the SMR's Development Plan and are supported by financial
plans aimed at limiting investment and increasing revenues through user
charges and taxes. The investments support economic productivity in one of
Brazil's largest metropolitan areas and important Northeast centers of
production. At the same time, they would address social needs by upgrading
low-income areas, by improving municipal services, strengthening metropoli-
tan management and helping preserve the SMR's rapidly deteriorating his-
toric center.   The Bank and ENH are providing subloans to finance the
investments which would be complemented by grant financing provided pari
passu by the State and Federal Governments. Grant funding would be allo-
cated for the first time on explicit economic considerations. The invest-
ments proposed are expected to reflect least-cost solutions, high priori-
ties and generate important benefits. This is the first time that a metro-
politan program which contains a strong financial management program and
funding through subloans rather than grants, has been undertaken in a
Northeast state. It is hoped that over time, metropolitan areas and munic-
ipalities in the Northeast states, will adopt similar programs which will
reduce reliance on grant funding.
Project Description
2.03         The proposed project would finance investments in the SMR
(US$150.1 million or 99Z of the project cost including contingencies) and
technical assistance for MDU (US$900,000 or 1% of the project cost).  A
sumaary description of these components and their costs, including continr-
gencies, is presented below (Annex 2 provides further details).  In addi-
tion to Federal and State funding, the Bank would finance (a) (iii), (b) -
(g); and BNH would finance (a) (i) and (ii). The State would finance all
of (h). The detailed financing plan is presented in Annex 1, Table 4.



- 6 -
(a)  Urban Upgrading.  (US$48.6 million or 32% of the total pro-
ject cost):   (i) upgrading of 23  low-income communities
including drainage, road paving and community facilities in
the Municipalities of Camac,ari and Salvador benefitting
about 25,000 and 147,000 inhabitants, respectively; (ii)
introduction of basic sanitation in eleven low-income
conimunities in Salvador with a combined population of
198,000; and, (iii) community participation programs to
improve maintenance of neighborhood facilities (drainage,
sanitation canals and footpaths);
(b)  Infrastructure.  (US$31.1 million or 21%):  construction of
about 13 km of primary roads in Salvador linking the eastern
industrialized sector with the administrative center and
providing transport access to low-income residential areas
where none exists;
(c)  Municipal Services.   (US$47.6 million or 31X):   (i) con-
struction and improvement of solid waste facilities
(including four new landfills, collection and disposal
equipment) to improve health conditions, reduce operating
and maintenance costs (as wastes dumped in open sewers and
drainage canals are expensive to dredge) and increase
service from 65% to about 90% of households in the SMR by
1990; (ii) civil works and equipment to improve maintenance
services for municipal infrastructure in Salvador (roads,
sidewalks and drainage), expand such services in CamaFari
and introduce services in the remaining seven municipalities
for the first time; and, (iii) rehabilitation and construc-
tion of seven municipal markets in Salvador, the expansion
of the central market and construction of four municipal
markets in Camacari and one in Candeias; and technical
assistance to improve accounting, hygiene and marketing of
produce;
(d) Support for Productive Activities. (US$7.4 million or 5%):
Ci) site  upgrading (including drainage, access roads and
utilities) for one commercial center (300 sites); (ii) site
upgrading for one industrial center (about 130 sites) in
Salvador, and construction and equipment for one production
plant and expansion and equipment for two production plants
in Camagari which produce basic building materials for comr-
munity upgrading programs in low-income areas; and, (iii)
training in equipment use and building materials production
techniques in Cawajari and business training, including
accounting, for small-scale enterprises throughout the SMR;



- 7 -
(e)  Institutional Development.    (US$12 million or 8%):   (i)
technical assistance, equipment and training to CONDER in
management of metropolitan services and in supervision
techniques, financial, economic and technical analysis and
in providing assistance to the nine municipalities of the
SMR in financial and administrative management (Annex 3,
paras. 5 to 11); and (ii) technical assistance, equipment
and  training  to  the  Municipality  of Salvador,  through
CONDER, in restructuring and updating the cadastre, improv-
ing tax assessment and collection and investment programming
and budgeting (Annex 3, paras. 12 to 15);
(f)  Technical Assistance.   (US$590,000 or 0.4%):  Feasibility
studies of the rehabilitation of the historic center of
Salvador;
(g)  Metropolitan  Areas.    (US$860,000  or 0.6%):    Technical
assistance to MDU to study the management of up to elght
other  metropolitan  areas  and  make  recommendations  for
improvement; and,
(h)  Administration.   (US$2.9 million or 2%):  Staff resources,
equipment and office facilities for CONDER to administer and
supervise the proposed project.
Project Implementation
2.04       The Faderative Republic of Brazil would be the Borrower and the
State of Bahia through CONDER, would be responsible for administering the
project components in the SMR. MDU, through its Secretariat of Urban Dev-
elopment (SDU), would be responsible for preparing the metropolitan areas
component and recommending ways to strengthen municipal finance in other
metropolitan areas.  MDU/SDU would submit the terms of reference for the
metropolitan management consultants to the Bank for review and comment.
The Borrower would establish a project account (for MDU/SDU) in the Banco
do Brasil as a condition of effectiveness.  MDU/SDU would also monitor and
supervise CONDER's management of the project in the SMR. As a condition of
effectiveness MDU would enter into an agreement (convenio) with the State
setting forth the mechanisms satisfactory to the Bank for transferring loan
proceeds and the arrangemen';s for supervision.
2.05      The infrastructure, municipal services and productive activities
components, designed by CONDER and the Municipalities would be executed by
contractors.  The institutional development and technical assistance com-
ponents were designed and would be executed by CONDER. CONDER would super-
vise and exercise quality control over all components.   CONDER and the
Municipalities of Salvador and Cama;ari successfully completed works under
Loan 2193-BR.  Under the proposed loan, their management, financial and
administrative capabilities would be further strengthened through the
institutional development component (Annex 3, paras. 5 to 11).



- 8 -
2.06      In order to undertake works included in the infrastructure, muni-
cipal service and productive activities' components, each municiality would
enter into a Participation Agreement satisfactory to the Bank with the
State, through ODNDER, setting forth the procedures for executing the com-
ponents in accordance with a Manual of Lending Policies and Procedures.
The Manual, agreed to during negotiations, would include financial. techni-
cal and procurement procedures including disbursement, accounting, auditing
and repayment of the subloans. Each execating agency would also enter into
a FEREM Subloan Agreement with CONDER, as administrator of FEREM, setting
forth the subloan terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (including
withholding the municipalities' ICM as collateral for the subloans).
Signature of the Participation Agreements and the FEREM Subloan Agreements
would be conditions of disbursement.
2.07        CONDER, as administrator of FEREM, and DESENBANCO would enter
into an Operating Agreement for assisting FEREM in loan portfolio manage-
ment (disbursement, repayment and accounting).   The Operating Agreement
would be a condition of effectiveness and provide for DESENBANCO's finan-
cial management training of CONDER's staff.  During negotiations, CONDER
agreed to establish two project accounts in FEREM: one for making subloans
and the second for providing grants for technical assistance.   FEREM's
auditing and budgeting procedures are in accordance with State standards
and are acceptable to the Bank. A plan for progress reporting, monitoring
indicators (Annex 1, Table 7), and interim and final project evaluation
were agreed to during negotiations. Annual audits by auditors acceptable
to the Bank of FEREM's two project accounts, MDU/SDU's project account and
the Special Account established in the Borrower's Banco Central for the
project were also agreed to.
2.08      The upgrading and sanitation works to be financed by BNH would be
undertaken by the Bahia State agencies, EMBASA, URBIS and HAMESA.   All
three agencies have participated in other Bank-supported water supply,
sewerage and urban projects and their performance was satisfactory.
Although the State agencies have their own supervisory staff, CONDER would
coordinate and provide advice on works as needed. BNH would enter into a
convenio with the State (EMBASA, URBIS and RAMESA) and the Municipality of
Camagari for the upgrading component.  Bank approval of the BNH convenio
with the State would be a condition of loan effectiveness and Bank approval
of the BNH convenio with Camafari would be a condition of disbursement.
Both convenios would follow a standard format setting forth selection,
design, financial criteria and cost recovery mechanisms.
Project Cost, Financing and Cost Recovery Plan
2.09       Project costs are detailed in Annex 1, Table 1, 2 and 3 and are
summarized below in Table 2.1.



- 9 -
TABLE 2.1: Project Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
% of
Total
Base
Estimated Costs by Component                Local   Foreign  Total    Costs
A.  Upgrading                               22.0      9.6     31.6      30.9%
B.  Infrastructure                          12.0      8.4     20.4      19.9%
C.  Municipal services                      18.5    15.0      33.5      32.8%
D.  Productive activities                    3.7      1.5      5.2       5.1%
E.  Institutional development                6.2      2.2      8.4       8.2%
F.  Technical assistance                     0.3      0.2      0.5       0.5%
G.  Management of metropolitan areas         0.4      0.2      0.6       0.6%
H.  Administration                            1.5     0.5       2.0      2.0%
Base cost                               64.6    37.6    102.2    100.0%
Physical contingencies                   8.5      4.8     13.3      13.0%
Price contingencies                     22.3    13.2      35.5      34.7%
Contingencies                               30.8    18.0      48.8      47.7%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          95.4    55.6    151.0    147.7%
The total cost of the project including contingencies, but excluding inter-
est during construction and taxes, is estimated at US$151 million equiva-
lent.  The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$55.6 million or
37% of the project cost. Costs are based on July 1985 prices (updated to
January 1986) and include physical contingencies of 13%. Price contingen-
cies of US$35.5 million or 35% of project costs are based on international
inflation of 7% in 1986 and 1987, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7% in 1989, 7.6% in 1990
and 4.5% in 1991 and thereafter. This assumes that the cruzeiro would be
devalued to reflect domestic and international inflation.   Construction
costs are based on unit costs provided by CONDER for equivalent civil
works. Equipment costs are based on the procurement of similar items in
Brazil.   Technical assistance and consultants' costs are based on Bank
experience with similar internationally and locally recruited experts in
Brazil.
2.10      The Bank loan of US$55 million, representing 36% of total eligi-
ble project costs, would finance 100% of eligible foreign costs. The Fed-
erative Republic of Brazil, the Borrower, would as a condition of effec-
tiveness through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement onlend US$54.5 million of the
loan to the State of Bahia for investments in the SMR and the remaining
US$500,000 of the Bank loan would be made available to MDU/SDU for the



- 10 -
management studies. The Borrower and the State have agreed to finance the
balance of US$30 million and US$66 million, respectively. The State would
finance US$32.3 million from its own budgetary resources and US$33.7
million from internal borrowings from BNH.
2.11      The financing arrangements for investments in the SMR have sever-
al important features. The project financing plan is detailed in Annex 1,
Table 4, and is summarized below as Table 2.2:
TA1. 2.2: Project Fin        Plan
(US$ ml71S)
Ezseoiting             Bank         Fed. Babia   M             lut
Agency          Grants Loans Total  Ovt. State  Loan   Grants Loans Total
MDU/SDU         0.5    -     0.5    0.4  -      -       0.9    -     0.9
(100l)   (0m
State Acies    -      -     -       8.0  2.7   31.9  10.7   31.9 42.6
(25Z)   (75Z)
iSixiicij.1ities    -  39.4 39.4   11.1 15.6    1.8  26.7   41.2 67.9
(39Z)  (61%)
-XNER           6.7   8.4  15.1   10.5 14.0    -       31.2    8.4  39.6
(79%)  (21%)
TOTAL        7.2  47.8  55.0   30.0 32.3   33.7  69.5   81.5 151.0
(46%)   (54%)
6.7  47.8  54.5   21.3 26.5    -       54.5   47.8 102.3
(53Z)  (47%)
The first is that the Bank loan, together with the loans from BNH, would be
onlent as subloans by the State to the municipalities and CONDER for the
first time.   Previously, SMR investments have been grant financed.   A
detailed analysis of the municipalities' finances indicates that they will
be able to repay the subloans if they adhere to the measures included in
their financial plans of action (paras. 2.15 - 2.16).
2.12       A second important feature is that the Bank loan would be chan-
neJ!d to municipalities and CONDER by the State through FEREt in such a way
as to enable FEREM to be capitalized. The State would onlend US$15 million
of the Bank loan of US$54.5 million to FEREM and would make the remaining
US$39.5 million available on a grant basis.  FEREM would onlend US$47.8
million to the SMR municipalities (principally Salvador and Camacari) and
CONDER, and would make the remaining US$6.7 million available on a grant
basis to CONDER to finance technical assistance.



- 11 -
2.13       The total amount of the Bank loan of US$47.8 million onlent by
FEREM to the municipalities and CONDER would be repaid at 6% interest, 10
years repayment for equipment and 18 years for civil works, including three
years of grace. FEREM on the other hand, would repay the State only US$15
million of the Bank loan (interest at the Bank's variable rate, for 15
years  including  3  years  of  grace).   The  difference  between  subloan
repayments to FEREM (US$47.8 million) and FEREM's repayment to the State
(US$15.0 million) represents a total capitalization of US$32.8 million
which would be onlent for future municipal works. To insure that the funds
resulting from the capitalization are relent as subloans and not passed on
as grants, it was agreed during negotiations to alter FEREM's regulations
accordingly before the loan becomes effective.   The BNH loan of US$33.7
million would be lent to the State implementing agencies EMBASA, URBIS and
HANSA and to the Municipality of Camacari.  BNH offers standard terms that
are acceptable to the Bank (5.5% interest, 22 years repayment including two
years of grace).
2.14       The municipalities would achieve 100% cost recovery of the pro-
posed investments financed by the Bank from the measures included in their
financial plans of action.   The municipalities would cover debt service,
operations and maintenrance by increases in existing revenues directly
attributable to the project and the reforms included in the municipalities'
financial plans (user charges, IPTU, ISS, paras. 2.15-2.16) as follows:
- Infrastructure:   Primary Roads - About 3% from increased IPTU
made possible by extending the primary road network and the
remainder from increases in general revenues.
- Municipal Services. Solid waste collection and disposal services
- One hundred percent of collection and disposal in industrial
and commercial areas would be recovered directly from increased
user charges; one hundred percent of services to residential
beneficiaries would be recovered indirectly from improvements in
IPTU and ISS; maintenance services - One hundred percent indi-
rectly from increased IPTU and ISS; market improvements - One
hundred percent directly  through user charges  (rental  fees).
Setting rents at levels sufficient to recover costs by the Munic-
ipalities of Salvador, Camagari and Candeias  would be a condi-
tion of disbursement for this component.
- Productive Activities.   Commercial and Industrial Sites - One
hundred percent  directly  through  land  sales.    Setring  sales
prices at levels sufficient to recover costs by the Municipality
of Salvador would be a condition of disbursement for this compo-
nent.
The level of cost recovery for investments not financed by the Bank (urban
upgrading in low-income communities) would be lower because of the social



- 12 -
nature of these works. Upgrading would be recovered directly through land
legalization fees. Road paving and comnnunity facilities would be recovered
indirectly through increases in IPTU. Sanitation works would be recovered
directly through user charges. Cost recovery arrangements are presented in
Annex 1, Table 5.
2.15       With 87% of municipal investments under the project located in
the Municipality of Salvador, municipal financial conditions there are of
major concern (Annex 4, paras. 23-25). The Municipality has taken steps to
reduce its investment program and recurrent expenditures. It has prepared
a Financial Plan of Action, which would be reviewed annually by CONDER, to
inL;ease its annual own-source revenues, and limit long-terms borrowings,
beginning in 1986. The plan was agreed to during negotiations, and its im-
plementation would be a condition of disbursement.   It includes the intro-
duction of full cost recovery through user charges for solid waste collec-
tion and disposal services to industrial and commercial premises which
would provide US$2 million equivalent per year by 1991, a 133% increase
over total 1984 user charge revenues.  CONDER would also recover landfill
costs through such charges.  Putting the charges into effect would be a
condition of disbursement for the component.   The plan of action also
includes administrative reforms to the municipal cadastre (improved collec-
tion efficiency and coverage) which would provide about US$4.0 million
equivalent additional IPTU revenues by 1991, a 88% increase over 1984 IPTU
revenues.  These administrative reforms also would provide about US$2.0
million equivalent additional ISS revenues by 1991, a 28% increase over the
1984 level.  The combined effect of the local revenue recovery measures
included in Salvador's plan of action would provide annual revenues of
about US$8.0 million equivalent in 1991, representing a 60% increase over
1984 total municipal own-source revenues. In addition, the Municipality of
Salvador would be able to begin to revalue the updated cadastre properties
in 1988, which could further increase IPTU revenues in 1991 by about US$2.5
million equivalent (Annex 4, paras. 33-37).
2.16         Only 7% of municipal investments under the project would be
located in the Municipality of Camapari. During negotiations, a Financial
Plan of Action for Camacari, which would be reviewed annually by CONDER,
was agreed to. Its implementation would be a condition of disbursement.
The plan focusses on budgetary management and expenditure control (Annex 4,
para. 38).  In the other seven SMR municipalities, where 6% of municipal
investments are located, CONDER would assist in the preparation of finan-
cial plans of action for each manicipality acceptable to the Bank by Sep-
tember 1986. These are expected to focus on improved revenues administra-
tion and the programming of capital improvements (Annex 4, para. 27).
Procurement and Disbursement
2.17       Procurement under the project would be carried out in accordance
with bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.  Civil works contracts
over US$4.0 million with a total cost of US$27.8 million or 18% of project
costs, and equipment contracts over US$500,000 with a total cost of US$26.5
million or 18Z of project costs, would be procured through ICB. Computing



- 13 -
equipment with a total cost of US$700,000 or 0.5% of total project costs
would be procured under reserved procurement procedures and has therefore
been excluded from Bank financing. It also has been excluded from project
costs in determining the loan size. The remaining contracts would be pro-
cured through LCB in which foreign contractors are eligible to partici-
pate.   Local procurement procedures ensure adequate competition and are
consistent with Bank procurement guidelines. For contracts for works and
equipment of US$50,000 and less, up to an aggregate of US$3.0 million,
price quotations from not less than three qualified contractors or sup-
pliers would be required.  Technical assistance and professional services
amounting to US$25.9 million or 17% of project costs, would be procured
following the Bank's  Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.   Bidding
documents for all contracts over US$500,000 would be reviewed, ex ante, by
the Bank. The remaining documents would be reviewed by CONDER, which would
report to MDU/SDU, and would be reviewed by the Bank, ex post, on a sample
basis.
2.18      Project costs by procurement method are presented below in Table
2.3.
TABLE 2.3: Project Cost by Procurement Methoda/
(in US$ million)
Project Component                Procurement Method                Total
ICB     LCB      Other     N.A.         Cost
Civil Works              27.8      53.4     3.0        --           84.2
(17.0)    (8.5)   (0.0)       ---)        (25.5)
Equipment                26.5       6.2      0.7       --           33.4
(16.2)    (3.4)   (0.0)      (--)         (19.6)
Technical services        0.7      23.7      --       1.5           25.9
(0.2)    (9.7)      --)    (0.0)          (9.9)
Land                      --        --        --      4.6            4.6
C--)     C--)      C--)    (0.0)          (0.0)
Project Administration   --         --       --       2.9            2.9
(-)      (-)       (---)    (0.0)         (0.0)
Total                    55.0      83.3      3.7      9.0          151.0
(33.4)   (21.6)   (0.0)    (0.0)          (55.0)
NOTE:  I'igures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank Loan.



- 14 -
A Special Account in the amount of US$3.0 million (estimated three months'
disbursements) would be established in the Central Bank.  The Bank would
disburse at a rate of 61% for civil works, materials and equipment to be
executed by CONDER and the municipalities in the SMR and financed by sub-
loans from the FEREM. The Bank would not disburse against the procurement
of computers, project administration and components funded by BNH.   The
Bank would disburse at a rate of 34% for expenditures for technical assist-
ance, training and equipment to be executed by CONDER and at a rate of 55Z
for such expenditures to be executed by MDU/SDU.  Disbursements would be
made against standard documentation and, for items under US$50,000 in
value, against certified statements of expenditures.  CONDER would retain
detailed documentation for expenditures and make it available for review by
the Bank during supervision.
2.19       Retroactive financing in an amount equivalent to US$1.0 million
for technical assistance, civil works and equipment executed since August
1, 1985 would be provided.  The State has budgeted for the 1985 and 1986
investments and the corresponding designs have been completed.   CONDER
intends to implement the program in seven years, however, an implementation
schedule of eight and a half years (Annex 1, Table 6) and a disbursement
profile of nine years has been used reflecting experience with urban pro-
jects in the region. This profile implies that disbursements would be com-
pleted by the Closing Date of December 31, 1994 (Annex 1, Table 8).
Benefits and Risks
2.20      The major benefits of the proposed project are financial, insti-
tutional and technical improvements which cannot be quantified.  The pro-
ject is expected to strengthen the financial capability of the SMR by
increasing revenue raising capacity through the use of improved cost
recovery arrangements, user charges and real estate taxes which form the
financial basis for making subloans. The project is affordable as a result
of the measures to improve local revenue performance in the Municipality of
Salvador, budgetary control in the Municipality of Camacari and more
disciplined revenue administration and financial programming in the other
seven municipalities.  The process of preparing the SMR Development Plan,
which will be financed for the first time by subloans instead of entirely
by grants, has encouraged the municipalities and CONDER to adopt least-cost
solutions and focus on a rational system of resource allocation. Through
the capitalization of FEREM and the linking of grant funds to complement
subloans, the burden of federal and state grant funding would be reduced
and allocation of resources improved.    The shift away from grant funding
of metropolitan investments has important ramifications for the rest of
Brazil, but especially for the Northeast where this concept is being tried
for the first time.
2.21      The weighted average economic return for components with economic
benefits totalling 84% of total project costs is 16%.  Individual returns
for these components range from 13% to 25% (Annex 1, Table 9). About 39%
of the SMR's population, with incomes below the poverty threshold of three



- 15 -
minimum salaries, will benefit from about 30% of project investments and
will indirectly benefit from a further 50% of project investments.
2.22      Default or delays in payment of subloans by the municipalities to
FEREM would reduce the impact of the project in providing a source of loan
financing in the future.   This risk is mitigated by the State's strong
support of the project, by the revenue strengthening reforms included in
the project and by the withholding of municipal tax revenue (ICM) by the
State as collateral. The timely execution of the project depends upon the
availability of counterpart funds. Given the broad-based political support
for the project this risk should be minimal.
PART III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)   Signature of Participation Agreements by the State and each muni-
cipality setting forth the procedures for executing components in
accordance with the Manual of Lending Policies and Procedures
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement to
each municipality (para 2.06);
(b)   Signature  of FEREM  subloan agreements  by  the State and each
executing agency (each municipality and CONDER) setting forth a
description of the component to be financed by the subloan, re-
payment terms (including collateral), and cost recovery arrange-
ments acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement
for each component (para. 2.06);
(c)   Progress  reporting,  monitoring  indicators,  interim  and  final
project evaluations would to be satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2.07);
(d)   FEREM's Project Accounts, MDU's project accounts and the Special
Account would be audited annually by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank (para. 2.07);
(e) Signature of a BNH-Camac,ari Convenio would be a condition of
disbursement for the components in CamaFari (para. 2.08);
(f)   Salvador setting prices for industrial and commercial lots, and
Salvador, Cama,cari and Candeias setting rents for market stalls,
at levels satisfactory to the Bank to allow recovery of capital
investment cost, would be conditions of disbursement (para.
2.14);
(g)   Salvador putting into effect a schedule of charges to cover solid
waste collection to industrial and commercial users, and CONDER
putting into effect charges to fully recover landfill costs



- 16 -
would be conditions of disbursement for the solid waste component
(para. 2.15);
(h)   Municipalities of Salvador and Camac,ari would implement multi-
year financial plans which would be reviewed by CONDER annually
and which would include annual financial targets for debt service
coverage, contributions to capital outlays, annual increases in
revenues from IPTU, ISS and solid waste collection charges
(para. 2.15 and 2.16);
(i)   CONDER  would  complete  its  evaluation  and  provide  technical
assistance to define action programs satisfactory to the Bank to
strengthen finances of municipalities other than Salvador and
Camacari by end September 1986 (para. 2.16); and
(j)   Ex-ante review of bidding documpnts and procurement would be
undertaken by the Bank of contracts over US$500,000 with a selec-
tive ex-post review of other contracts (para. 2.17).
3.02      Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)   Borrower would establish a project account in the Banco do Brasil
on behalf of its Ministry of Urban Development and the Environ-
ment to finance the metropolitan areas' component and CONDER
would establish two project accounts in FEREM:   one for the
purposes of making subloans, and the second for providing grants
for technical assistance (paras. 2.04 and 2.07);
(b)   Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank
to transfer the proceeds of the Loan to the State of Bahia and of
a Convenio between MDU/SDU and the State setting forth the ar-
rangements for supervising and monitoring the project (para.
2.04);
(c)   Signature of a BNH Convenio between the State and BNH, and an
Operating Agreement by CONDER and DESENBANCO setting forth the
conditions for administering FEREM satisfactory to the Bank
including loan portfolio management and training of CONDER staff
by DESENBANCO (paras. 2.07 and 2.08); and
(d)   Amendment of FEREM's Regulations by the State to include finan-
cial criteria satisfactory to the Bank for operating FEREM and
managing its assets (para. 2.13).
3.03      With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$55 million to be repaid over 15
years, which includes three years of grace.



-17-                           ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annex 1: Tables
Table of Contents
Page No.
Table 1:  Project Costs by Component          8............................  i
Table 2:  Project Costs and Contingencies Calculations ..........       19
Table 3:  Investment Schedule by Major Component        ................    20
Table 3 (con't):  Investment Schedule by Major Component ... .....    21
Table 4:  Project Financing Plan          .................................    22
Table 5:  Implementation and Cost Recovery Arrangements ..........    23
Table 6:  Implementation Schedule         .............................  24
Table 7:  Key Indicators ....... ..... .................. ..a.........    25
Table 8:  Loan Disbursement Sclhedule ............ .. ..............    26
Table 9:  Economic and Sensitivity Analysis          ....................    27



- 18 -
Thbl- I
SILUM IEThWIL  KNU~  'XI
1       I30  3    reOjCt CEmts by Ce_JCt
.me 159 on064 ist,r  11*1
.... ..._._._._.__........_....__..... __ ______.......................... -___._____   --------                -----     --- ---
...c. Prwctn a
Esasast  Camst aiv Emffuht                                                                                  Loal ;rvet.  lerel   I    0_e tests
......    ..... .. . . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. . ... . . .. . . .. . . ... .. . . . .... .   _.,.__.___._._._._            .... __ -- - - -- - - --
OWNING                 S~~~. tqi.iq                   Qi Vel t Us Cev pp.                         AM*   2330   49         1ff1   1.41
__-                      . Ieale                                   11;7   mm   11*13       :12  13.r.
'C- Cas                                    112*    03I      137: 2ID      3.31
Z. ICAt   1aala "          ma* OCa  ca                                in:   1111   3174        .r   :.1z
---------....        -      1  ---t   | horlc              r            an c   51 1 01:  tol   -.I" 'n 2.
.c. Cajenrate  an Fene  WroosE              V 0           1;3 32      t   :.nT
1. Ernest. 'wtt        m t     atlw m  ' rllassI m1 heir OaRu.UStts       I397 "    in3   33       4V.   2.11
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .... .. ..... .... .. .....
S DtraI A                              11:31   06,1  llX        s3t  !30.9
E. tI r5u 3Cj .*.e r. Rmes.                                       a- SAM.:'.                                5001   4114  :OD3        *:t   9.2
.....----- .:  Je_stet                                                4010   *2' :0217         41   3 I-.t
.... .. ....  .. ....    ....... .....
Satatai I                             11910   0114   2023*      411  P.O.
%l(Ep3N    SiIlS        :       . Salt  -alto                 1m  C*o.aL  me SIc 5'wcl.cu is EC .s  30            IX l 23         1D  0.21.
----                -.---------..  -----------  '3  vta   s-t   Pag e's:.                    313    1II    26       'Al   0.1 1
:eIne.'                                38    '23*   NM          337   t.t
-E  (macw                                   22*    '13    3'       30    3 .31
-9 .aw                                    -A1     113   17.       Itt11 2
:.5 gut rE174 40*31  3371                                           I 301 3.51
ci sere                     'a' Sal.dr           *CtlD-1 24    .                        P 7634    '71   7.31
*8 C-a-asri0wl2    1                                      7       47    0. 71
se- t 40.  *0Icesml,t,n                     *00    Sr:   330        471   3.31
-- 0rins               a- S~~~~~~.1alar  *Cmnrsscttsm'           Q':    433   1334       33     1.4?
ssSakes.' ImhaeALe:ttmam                  203    13*    301    3i1   0.31
sit 7metre                                  1        7?     201     331   L.21
101 Erie Reeepu.lt Teeheqi                  flI      33    21,    201 0.31
S-.Itel.: C                           3342  "197  ;3512         431   Q.B?
3. riEIW  eCTeI'IoES              1. Cc_tc.al                   'la  SeI.m   3JAQerIDi                       [me1     2    3492      2111    .51
Z.  t4too'1 -as SeAine   mbnpO                                             5-      2T117    '2     3l  0.0
''''-----                   '13I Cacri 'llssll  ett r,all               240    l1      401      41   3.40
3. Suel Sa.le Eetrrmees   'a-  ou 't   mit mli33 !'11                              660   23'       2l1   2.31
SatuteS  D                             3747   349    3240       Wa    S.11
E. DtETrOftl. 3                   t. E Ptrawltes   _aut            lam 35iK                                  AM    1*i3   *37'       2n3   1.41
.. _ ~~~~~~-.- - _ - - - - - ............ .. _- - ..- - -- -----
FeeegaLul '3m.mo    :       lam 5eI.e4                                  3b    Se    3022        331   L.22
Sate?., E                              *3I"    220    819       231   1.21
F. TEDfy   . S3IST  I             1. feaseile. Sti s              e 0:sttszc Cost' f SaleMdO                  333    141    411 I     31   3.31
Sdtated  F                              1133    1tl    u        25t  0.31
6. KtWfIlUN  Wes                  1. Oaensuotrm  Oeaapueft    la! tlstlti, me 14        Iusa ,lutw2t 32    223    O1                 3t  4.61
Sdttel t                                412     223      31        0.61
N. etmawun                        3.  eJect  s let   trattem t %l W mu                                       1303    S03   20        2n   2.0
Setmal N                               313    '03   2004        233  l2.0
US  MiT                                      6Slt  31*51 302220        37?10.01
*emcal CatiqoZ.  303                             7 4 0 3  m2           .01
rsec  Itealetcw                       211P  3311   mU           mi   un
SatOteI Catesqm:a              380   3334  4019 31 1          47.1?
TM7g PUIC  MR1S                              9 1  33*,61 331010        371 147.71



- 19 -
AM= I
Table 2
Tae2 Project Costs ad1 cototie@i ciu   alculations
,ie III) M0 of Jasan aflU
MOE    PHSr.          POLE.                  'II.
Esti.atoc Costs Uv Comeamm.t                                                                                   MST   CUNT.   1.   CUNT.                      n1S'r    -
A. IPUI0M                          I. Wsgraea.                     Al VA!e ao tauragloe                        259    2:q       Ut1  435*      3            laO?_       0?
----- - --         ... . ....                  lkhi lsanT                                  :iz    isn        in   52314     as.         innr       :2?-
(ci Casaari                                 157*    no*    Ii.   ICE         2*?            2i1      it
2.Basic Sanitation             tat lana   calta                             31174    117     10t   449      14t           3641       3?
---------           la) Parct Perifericas                        2354    235      lo 10? 11!     W4           421d       It
civ  Cajazeiras and Faunat Irasdie          212      I99     25%   47        !l           :87*       A1
3. Comasitw  Pwrtciaatie,   iiitramoinq La lasic 1azotemfance               2393    10       1in   1001     42?           175       2?
Saitotai A                              1323    421       I'll 12773     401         43397      32?
S. 1355TUCT11E                     2. Prier, loan                  a  Sacweirs                                lIC      1131     IszI?Q79        39x         25397    1in
----------- - -     ------------ilo  Jaquaihe                                              20272i  iSa:      15%  19*9      RI          isoll      tot
Subtotal 3                             2013*    13M      III  766B       im          :120731    :21
C. NI4RCIPA. SERVICES              1. Solid Haste                 Ia'Cabind  ad San Francisco on Comme   22              2!     lii.   7?       N4            330       01
IIh  VeraCrsa agotao aca                     25s      27      III    *0      21            IC7       at
ICISslndsw                                  1Q31    33        101 2423       301         2:302       7%
Itt Casawal                                  s0       E3      Iu    on1      241           no1       ox
elp go                                     1771   1223       10   1223      271         1*1211    III
2. Halnetoasce                 [at SalInts                                  7*34   1245      15?  23*0       M 17?       113v       C
Ill' Cnamacm                                 763    213       131   ?*       37n          1114       it
[El Otter IhzmLCIuaiatlts                   1143    172       13?   429      37?          178*       It
3. Parkets                     tat Saints  CMitmructaoem                    139*    239      10?   493      1*?          202        iI
--   - -IIk  SMalar Isa,abiitatiml                                        W07     56      :31    37      Ci            3I"       1%
Int taideas                                  95       95     tCl    73        01          tilk       I
IldtCmacarc                                  209      21     lOt    *4       I1I?          294       0?
emP Parist Rasaqeset Training                2n      13      i2n    T1      27%           370       0%
Subtotal C                             3331    392       12 1 013'       30?         4737       31?
D. PSUETCISE KTIVCTIES             I. Ca.ercaai                   III Salidor iaqwarils                        149      149     IC    2*9      13?           1911       It
2. indutri Al                  Iii Salsadar 10INUR3                          712      73     10n   22       29?           2034       2?
[IM  CamKartcuiINing1m  faterials?           a0l      AO     :41   122       10?           364       0x
WISml Scale Eteteprases   [at toaqemes  and Skill Training                25*4    234       10?   "I2    39?            Nl         1?
Subtotal D                              1240    324      10?  1*06       31?          7110       3?
E. IESTIHTIIgnL KVELEJPNEN         I. Netrnmolituo  Ramqent   [ml ClMMR                                        b37    936       24?  223'      414          9747       4?
2. kfulcipal laqepmat          la! S&alvso                                  112      247     341   to        Iin          225        It
Subtotal E                              3399   I1I4       141  2419      291         12002       ox
F. TECIEIIL ASSISTOM               1. Feasialitty Studiss         Sal Historic Caster of Sl2ndor                101      72     IS?    39        at           592       DI
SetotaiL F                               431      72     Iii    39        C.            92       02
S. SETFOYdTM  AREA                 2. NRtromolatas Rkaimgeat   (a  Saistsry of LOrla 3e'lueet                   *311    93      131   112      17n            W*       11
SubtoaUL 9                               451      9      131   i12       Iii           go0       13
s. M OU1uSSslN                     I. Project damOistratiN    (at COIER                                        2004    230      lO    747      371           PR3       21
Subtotai N                              2004    20       101   747       37?          293        21
Tilt  9uJEC7 M1573                            2O222  1=          131  =330        1        13101    1i01



AM= I
Table 3
-'IL
SDLVANE IETIRUPLITN EEVELPEUIT MIECT
Tablml lavtmt Schbo  by lJar CEapit
(090 0f Jaury 106
TOTAL    in5  19a6  I17   19o     t9o9   i"i           I00    192   I13   1it4
C_qwt                                  VWlONl
A. UIMI
1. UpgradIng
as  Cst                         2173t       0      76    621   2071   302   464   460    3775   ID    110
Physical CEticin u             304        0     11      80    255    25    672   6U5    52    2U1           23
Price Csmtinguins              0940       0      4      70    -    1240   2001   2412   2251   1237    113
Total Cnt                     34707       0     99    730   2773   56U    7327   7840   683    3345    300
2.  antc Saiuitamin
as  Cot                          7397       0    *52   1754   1334   1142    974    725    301         14      0
Ihysical Cetiqsln               Du        O     U      186    195    127    110      32      35      2       0
Price Cutinpscin               1927       0     31    212    373    340    406    369    174         9       0
TOt  cat                      10131       0    751   2153   2407   1610   1400   1171    510        25       0
3. Coumnity Participtin
as uost                          2390       0      23    179    331    432    460    432    331    179        23
Physical Cotisncin              360       0      3      27     50     65      70     AS      50     27      3
Price CE ting.cin              l00        0       1     23     12    13V    202    227   I        121      27
Total C.t                      370        o     20   2n       453     U6   740    7m         n     m        44
Subtotal A                      48597       0    369   3161   53    7022   0556   0740   7675   3607    344
1.  .llSREI
I. Priry las
as  Cot                         20          0    232   1631   2372   432   5253   4015   2407           0      0
Pbysical Cotimciis            3053       0     35    24      431    725    789    602    224        0       0
Price Contingencies            7668       0     14    207    63    1552   2267   210    WU           0       0
subtotal 1                      31078       0    230   2205   303   7100   8314   6723   2600           0      0
C. uurCwm SEPICES
1. s.11 kat
las  cot                        20355    153   2749   360   4300   4312   3633   220          775       0      0
Physical CEtispociss           2156      15    177    377    447    452    377    233        77      0       0
Price Cstiao nss 5315                     0     78    437    00   1322   1497  *151    430           0       0
Total Cst                     2326   I6    200    4454   5637   606   5507   3673   222             0       8
2. aintunac
almscnt                            54a      0       0    5"0   1022   2273   2366   1306    673         0      0
Physical Cati.gncins           1432       0      0      90    273    342    3       271    101       0       0
Price CEtingucin               3575       0      0      32    397    730   1020    948    30         0       0
Ttal Cest                     24549       0      0    769   2492   3350   3741   3025   1174         0       0
3. Iarkets
gm  Cst                           3115      0    523    739    254    903    677    113         0       0      0
Physical CctiEgcis            333       0     56      37     30     el      6J      11      0      0       0
Price Cotingocin                744       0     25      C5     55    243    276      55       0      0       0
TOtal Cot                      4192       0    609    910    340   1132   1021    179         0       0      0
Subtotal C                      47567    169   2611   613   3469  10561  10269   6812   2465            0      0



- 21 -
Ann  I
Tabls 3 (cont.)
SUULWI ETIWOILITU INO    PDEIT
l edt3    I Cotiee   1    lu cntut the        Wis hb fajw  Copest
IUSIW0    J jam"  19g06
fTtL   2905   ITU    IT17   111     3   393 1   39 1    3" 9    3l 992   1T9   3994
L. PRIWTICE WTIIVITIB
1. Cmrcial
gmecet                            1493       0    212    371    465    329        46       0       0      0       0
ftyuicela ntinqciu               149       0      n      D7      46      33      5       0      0       0       0
PiClCe. tIauquCLn                219       0      12     45      9 6            11       0       0      0       0
TaUl  Ent                       1911       0    322    453    607    460         9       0      0       0       0
2. Isstrinl
kwstet                            1314       0       0    317    249    54       244      26       0      0       0
PI,slula Catiq caie              II       0      0      12      a       55     21       3       0      0       0
Price CMti    Wlm n              346       0      0      14      54    17       n       13       0      0       0
Total  ut                       IE         0      0   1433 S21    70    367             42      0       0       I
1.  ull kale Eetwrpon
ameot                             ZMI        0     23    2135    4S2    43       40    434    332    10          23
Pntcaul citaaenn                 256       0      2      21      45      43     47      43     33      10       2
Price Caitleeei                  "1       a       1     21      94    133    194    210    391    3l6         1t
Ttal Cost                         i1t     i      27    26        92    U11    711    696    5         314     42
ntotel  3                         7370       0    39              5 2m7    39   1147    73  5 56    314          t2
E. IESTZTOTIU. fEWLENT
1. letrop te  R&a pmaut
e  Cat                             577    1I3    071   715        1l      M     1017    915    AN       36       47
Physical Cutaqacun               93       19     91      9      125    147    15S    137    133        5        7
Prce Cattmecn                   2Z31       0     31      U      332    315    439    41    413    250          35
Total  et                       9741    201    939       02    15O   144    16        1533   125    674       9
2. taupal   m. .et
Senot                             ICz        0    630   30i       174       0      0       0      0       0       0
hysical Cuntinesmcin             247       0     f5    131       24       0      0       0      0       0       0
Pncrte   .t:n cisn               115       0     30    122       33       0      0       0      0       0       0
Tatl cost                       2Z         0    745   1279    230         0      0       0      0       0       0
tttal C                          12002    201   1605   210   1330   1445   1609   1533   1205    614            9
F. TENUL ASKISTNE
1. HlNic bnte r
gm  Ent                            481       0    241    241        0       0      0       0       0      0       0
Phylcnltrtiaguns                  12       3     36      36       0       0      0       0      0       0       0
Prtic    mtw ipeczn               39       0     12      27       0       0      0       0       0      0       0
Tlt ICt                          592       0    2       304       0       0      0       0      0       0       0
Stbtal F                           592       0     S      304       0       0      0       0       0      0       0
L IETRIPLITU MS
1. htw1ita  _ut
gm scat               *             51    0        n23023                          0    0    0    0    0
Pyical Cttetucn                   90       0     34      35      35      14      0       S      0       0       0
Pir cetinucin                    332       0      5      29      4      29       0       0      0       0       0
Toal Cat                         06        0    114    m        314    239       0       0      0       0       0
S btatull C6N                                0    114    293    314    139         0       0      0       0       0
1. Projct  emnistretim
genbst                            2004       0    236    26    2J    236    236    236    236    23             110
Pysi   Cltiaoman                 2X        0     24      24      24     24      24      2      24      24      12
Price  tutqucin                  747       0      9      21       9     12      97    119    136    154       00
Satal F                           2952       0    21    217    330    331    357    31          3       413    213
T O ST MI .C110 mo1  Vo  MO s3 2am                                             2s  3D1Z2 29 144906 SM   MR



-22-
-IL
Baa LISSutE UMCE? PINT
aleS, M on1so ftuocIq Pie
Wamssuaq F.m  Po  w       I FO ms               Ia IS   a Wea    Mln  Low.             :   Ia a Ilmean, of Cannt FaMn                     I tol r MAL6       I IS
IuT.lt1              Ia     VIal        1?UNEuTattui,T     l          itI sstfta  VatSTS.1F,tas let 11.O lIsat TiilVt I.t         VaIItaMMilTs     VLs I $diS         is,lo
(stialete Casts It Cgs                     WIT tmau               a Lies  Ft. baesi  Fie 1aS  FlasWlls I Lass Ft. Erato Fin I           Ft-.MM  a rat  FINs trt  Fie Lam.  Ft. CaDET hsi   PIi t CUSL  Fla  Flo
l.SsaIsq                              .              a~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ,                                                                             --a-a---                            n.. . ......
1at WIi. ao Enqag                     1461    YtZIiIbinDf                                                                                          29i1  li113   ft 191   M2  1869NM 168 .7lifs I669  lIt   '1-1
,ci Casts                              711   311MCa.KWt                                                                                     -     3    123i  Il M   1  3371          I ntm l Nt.   3.11:331Mb  1.21
Z.  sac asotatlw                                                  I                                a      aI                                                                                          
I1 Eats. Ulau.                         1961  tLCltI           -I    39112   1391   3312 SL   O   331 lEt.  6.X31.4911K JIM Le
.34 sa,1a pvaIm"cl                     4214  3tEtLiS                                                                                        -      LIZM315   211  31  311  BR1  4216 ista  4.6?,  4134 131.  I.E
lid Caaau.se   ad 1.1854  tubd         I12   IL'nIShIifl                                               -                                         293  M2      9   St 131  M         IV1921 1661.3 11 3913, 16U1   1.31
L cant,ed  pilsoptsm                               I              a                                a      a                                a      a
la)331l5.2                         86197  12111  tsi     a    6 n1  3339:6 3        3139 I     INt.  Was1  6U  M12I  3 13    NU1   t      ilt.31    9. a  11t 3963         ox22.961: 2 111 a 9.21:% 36 1 IUu 12.31
le i ai: I3                         31M1  2111 stoft,  I             Ml  a   0*3     [Ki [NU 1661  3.    O  lit    6  O  15120W    17. t1, 3311  212  sa2I M           0 t   62:23386.  12.1. tISM  lOr., 3.131
C. SMICI't SEKIaiS.                                               .a                                      a,                                      aa                                                 t
li teCsi.sas    So. Frncs   at Comin  133   s901t:uaS C alt 2 bitt  339 391   IN lISM   6.31.   1  bit II                  a   20:  3113 0.61a   39  '.I1   36  In        6  St  129 19L. 6.11.  11I [L. 1.11
to, van  era am Itarica                 34  CtSWJItu  a  212  bit  133 391  161 [NU1  Lit.   212  alt    61  C   212  S1ib   0.al I 311it                         M IS     n4 32   3  it   6.11    267 1S, 3.21
Id  blaarw                             urn   fttfl1daht.       Z mW"  blit ad         11a   a ILN U     119A"  AllI 6          W" 3696  3:2.12.01.  3 12 lI   234I        a  Il. an  NU9.8. . 1I1I2 5461  1.31
.ai, Camste,,                           112   itlIltase:a    486  alt  Ml1 391  Inl IO6U  LIZ.  86  SIU                4   M1   846112.  1.11:   11 2112  136  IB         2  At  MI it   O.M1   121 USt 6.31
WI. So                                1312  llt:iilnI             UN2  SI  77114:       isizi  aM  15.11    =          I  A1 635  1223.22.   =          II lit  32    221         MI 4: Ut. Lilbt st    MLV. 10.11
2. istimalca ,                                                                                     a      a                                a      I                                           a     a
-4, blaSe                             11639  RtSld.SWr   aI  bam   3 4329 M 29           31 29K    lH.Ia  116331       I  1166s531. Itt          21 2  21 'D 43122i     3  VI 91   it   4.11, 1:633  1Kb  T.11
ch clCassa                             1364  ltt:4IUCasea    a  7106bit  418  M   116441611.1I.b   71011n              6  41   710312. 1.21:   3B  J3   43111n            4  a   616  it   1,21e  l23816. 6.611
1C- hsir 1131.99isalta                 :1e3b tt 1LDIUIh        a 2633  bait M      91  1713 labLt  1 11*lS   i         I al     sO x  11  bib   1.6.,  33  21  b4e  212   0  It  II  lIt   6.12:  1465 lOM   1.S
'*1 b2Cw  Ictrtas lrsin                 2       tU                I=3  31   M6  MU  23WIOU  LII.  1339  aR    I1  1339N  Kb  L2                   422   1  UNt 3 191     6  A   166  '6  1.1L1la  203  low   1.31
ail sacW  frbllhst:ata                  356    mImic *r  231 bll   M   391  391  aM                 t.i  336111l       I     13311161. 61.6.   11231   16  1[M           0  5    :22 391.  6.21.   M96IK    8.21
Idcabu                                  138  lliIUCan ta   a        5 31   31I%  431:Mlift 62.  1.11.  32  sItl    I  41  6313301.  1.3.  2M211    99In [i                I        ' 3119D10.6..  19113K 6W .11
tIVCastas                               291t131fll.ecrs  . Il9441  1102Mt2941Kb6.3t.  179331l    @611179 3:2Lab.22    32123M3:11                                              I 6A112i6L1.  l9dInSA6.21
a:le ss iAmspnmr   Traing              3711  ILtt 11m             I  I   351St S 361K    6.4b              S  Mt  12B  341  lbi  ]6.   21.   1I] 3la   113  I1           0  A   218  MU2  L313  310 IN    6.21
-  -I*-----------                            - - -----a-- -- - - --- ---f-- -_ ---  ---   ---- --                                                  a- - - -_--  --
liatse C                           4333  311 ISO 153  C  a 3712 3111S 2M flU 8242373K[UbL    V=3.2    MI   13b  t 2134  SI. 49..13  326 11 IMII3 21                  0 6    2tIR   421. 3.91. 476127K   31.3JI
:. ca.murttal                                      .                                                      I                                t      aa                                                2t
lus ks   c   OJpw.m.                   :911  IlluMO  *w ICC                -I 6   an  It1 lOM   1.91. [M6  21          I  41  1012  3121  1.1    US2 Iff 13 3M            6  =      0  496  LEa  6.1.211 IOb  3.31
21Soet.baa                                         a              a                                       I                                a      I                                           a     a
Ws &dier wIshm                         1666      flI   Ic         356  22 49  4313I611Kb  LI.13   396  Tt    I  A1  396  lIl   1.31.  M21                t 1  M1a63       I 6      M 56431   0.31   1666 lMU  4I.1
031 Castes 1l1516mg Sidwanls           3U4   U:CI ECer            313 &t   Ml  86   SP36WU  Lab   333  AR1    4   5   333  6K.  6.61.   Its 211  ILIM 1                   6  9    M2  lIt   6.21    %31KO   6.61
1 . hal  is.. ltI a.,                                             a                                as     a                                a      a                                           a     a
la) aespasie  ad naill 1r.Se           31111  R31:10CU         a    6       ]tMI NU   MI:  aM   3.11:         ItR  123 I    1293  361  . L.IM 132            HAt 1111 Ut      K   2311  MU  2.31., 3111K I      2.31S
-                 a* - ----------a-  -a----------- -t ---a  ---.---.--- -- -..a--._a--.--a.-
nsotila                            133   St i   Tail  I  I933  DX SW2  741  M3I INS  7It.  1933 231                f   126:1 233   66,  MU.6.    22?Mt 23066  39       6     411811  131  4.31,  1310IKb  4.91
*  1                     a      ,                                ~~~~~~~                                                        ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  a  I  t  *
Sal cow                                9781  31 liUMCS              a       " a    91MR  9167 lab  9.1:    6a  Jo 3        M6  SW286   2I 3.52. 3113  31   M 29    n II    6  41433   &CI 6.6   914  1Kb  3.
2. iSumcpul 6m.pust                                               I a                                     a                                a      t                                           a      aI
Ws 1*1w                                224   a1iIT                C   91-0NUI    [NU56lit   2.3t    6   It  13336    133  361.  1.81.  112  21   373  SU                0  It  18H66 32.  35.  332  lit   3.IZ
lifsti C                           am66   IC la  TOWl 1  a    a   C. :232 1=   I2        amt 1K :1.712.    I K  3261 211'3   3It  1.6.  4361             UN 231  Ut       M61636   Sb   6.31  12M   2Kbt  I.T
W a) 1w33 CAWe iS sic                   312  111 13D           a    C   C2  19I=    392  a    6.31.    6   It  21 141 C 2141.M  6.6.   212  331   170 331                6  At  3162Mb  6.6.:  391 1           6.61t
bItoUi F                            391  LMMISaIF  r    6   A.  19215    921M    6.D3L.    I   It  li1 341  3i  1.  0.41.  231  6it                        78 urn  a           M 262:1 6.41.  5911Kb  LIt
I. .       ItTO  &us                                                                                      at                                      a                                                        
l.  9.q.lltam qmat                                 I              a                                a      a                                                                                          I  
Iat11.strynof "MbaIaput                  M    JI1M=.a    3  K1  M1  2    '1   33D11.46.6     W1431                                                             6 I A              3111 5.h  L46.   W611K    LIX
statoilI                             SW   IL' MlsTsI.  6 i                                                   It  412n        673  2.  6.6.   331  43          0 fl    6   A     9  AMi    6.6.   M   IUD  LA
L peojKt welmovatime               I             I~~~~~~                           t      aI                                                                                 a      Ia
I  a                              a     a~~~~~~~~                                                                                        ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :  I     
am  PEW   am                MM~~~~~~ ama             t       aI    i       UIM S tLU                   Z a                    t      aSUI.r                                      ,     , M  Z   M 211%  MSLU M   MA
CaIWant   .5igC  mI andi.               as.IM    aM: ins     ii  a 417O   521 3693  3230     OM1U.U, 6717  41161                      332,f   1 2 .99.1.  21  2931123336  21    6  A  41111 t 41  SD93:06   aM  41.
CuIa.                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I lI lIiuI a                                                           a      I                                           I      II
aLlC.IhiLiL3W       fta3.Iw2L         396    91      S c . 3539 I      hat flI   MU M  tOh 3.11  S               1 a M   1 U 239  lIt. 34.11. 1863VI tItU         =I    0  5336    ab 26.6. 193K   39.61
a6ItaC1IIs2maC3ma  .2        4333311~e              a363  61168              26322   Lt.133   41             I   1  33   i    36. 11  61    1   11:71   3131   31.2.1J                    66J  3  I.3
aLWS111M  mar L.1.                       2313   21313 CabIns  aM                                                                                           M I    9   9   24    b 12.1331 6611361    .. 21   339 U lIt    6  5  4291 Mta  Wall 122  Ia     Ln
AC1 L        .aauiC34.                     M        m ~          a21   2          l  9         61 Min.333  31   6n 1131  7  321   L.1    W6   at  73                  t D I 6       E   391. 6..a s         a W   it



- 23 -
WAM                                                                'r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~abla S
Tale   a isiaattm  a  Eat  ecant, frrmSouc  fFsoiCtRco 
Sr.S itaca     Sa    er
heap.       E.mxtcw         : m a        Urn.: SATE    IN m      :      ,             isa
A. sF5115                    I. kiqrsedaa               to) Vale at Cau"pa                 IBIVNS,      MINIMUEM               311     2Wl       n: 6   liZ  iaimwsnam: 151s    Crni'iPw 
-----                    -----                  It?  aStl.                          tiSned       iS)aaaLhIin   :          :     Itex      s: *   xx:  tsisgaapmaj:f  ISam. cs.,ni[w plnu
IC Caiorn                          (MacSEt   imE               :      i:       ta:        : a    ml:mmn:                 (4 qilPti
tuLsce Smactatcau       la: ma. Lwcata                       sigNma      mSiss           :       11:    Lax:      lx: a   mc: tuim.'cumwL: glib. diapsaIRmtPla
-------------    EID lrs,G Pun ries,cc               iSiflM        lassea        :       U:      ill:      i: a   Ng: 4iganrn,cnSaYv: clam..r ineRViO   IPIIJ110
teIrn C.jAc...a  F..a ..a,  &rap   canaa        taimnaimm    :          i      mS:       Si: a    W Ut:  SiIaflitP:  lilt.. CwinelcItiIPiV
* 1. islSltIKliM       I~~~. P.maatrantleads       a, Trammla.. lscNmuc               trsac.uc    racEms          :                       3u:  : a:  Rxi*m.m             :WAil
* ---- -- -----                                        It'l Jagnam.                        irNItLm      cairns           e AKt   m:2:           a:    : K   twasap            :  Mirlt
C. uEiCIP.L  nitES           I. WSel  east.            We Ctelma.as     S. Franca. ao taUSeism          csliimm~: I   AT%:             211:     iS        It  cRiuMEWacITll   152Pm
*  ~~~~~~~~~~~------III VW& Era ama Itanana                                          rushw        caarnnnims: e   U:             zii:     OR:       at: .imiMtuITlEB:  MIflPt
Ira Sal-a's                        lsigma       liaiUl,wmw: I   itt:           211:     1St       31  MajEM           :  11iilla
141 Earni                          raisER       cui      ImcMai:      All:    zii:      Onx:      OR: m acmi          :maip
liis*                              amasw         cairn         : e      :      In:      lat:      ix: cairnuu,cm:  in:iPm
*                      ~~~~~~~~~~2. Raitetesaesa labia9..d                            ISIS~    csalRmicmEa  e   HI:               i       31:       ax:miur              : isi~iahiPbatiU
-- - ------      fo Eserni                           5si55        climmimso : a   jU:             2x:     si:       111t: m     tVA     : chltu,L5
sec Otts  ttuanaialtses            uslarn       caamm oiitnm: a   ax:;          i:      sa:       ix: cainaiEiptiTiES: imiPlunEs
*                      ~~~~~~~~~~1. cinhts        cam leSAIna  litastrectam'          ragtag      aaicoaiu,msmv: *   itt:        zin:      Mx:      ax: tmagWa           :Masst
*                   ------                 c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lb) hiLtSw  cASmlatataolrci  cairn  cSaNMtItnimSI: a   bin:    inz:     jti:      at:  aiNSaIMs          tRiftet
IC) Ceemln                        tsirm        caitadltCa: a   ii::           211:     nix:      411:  cMUii         :  aibe,
iii CSCAwNiS                      #sara         cSiUflaEna : a   a::1    zin:           In:       ix:  M aMCIA        :n t
a) anbte RNegattraceceg            iisSa        clsS~          :     Sat       la:      sax:     Ix:        eWA                  WA
1. PiOfCIVil   SCTNVITIBI    I. E cra.!tl lapI,ad.o cjeensiO                              Imaths   IHiSILaC             a   in:       211:     itt:      Ix:  Mawam~         :      m ca al ses
*                      2.~~~~~~~~~~ laaccstral    (a) seas.. 411.53                   canaLSM   Ongitam           : a   ii:      21x:     in:       11a:  nIaSawIm          MLfiaa See
to) Eaaanai flea lIceo satw.lsa    cairfinlI  aIMDAsM           :0 a    it:    211:     it       ix:  Maiini             ltiRatartad lat
*                      1.~~~~~~~~~~ fall Scal Etctwrcaa    Wa Wasaipeqet adt Still Temcie  ISISm   usaS           :     3ff:    SAx:      sat:      ix:        aWs       :ea
E. itiiitia. MhtiSRIf   1. fttrmIiLae RmAgaaa   14a; 13S11                                 asii         isic            :      f:       i:      x1t:      01x:       as                  giag
*                      ~~~~~~~~~~2. Roce.al P"esqeact  1.3 Sla d.                     [iSIS       (!ISI           :      a:       u:      ax:        all       lug                  Ilar
F. imuEDaC ASIaTUM           i. Fs,5niIt, Stance        1ai iftatoraecowt. of lss.         isiSm         cair                 l ax:    3D:       mi:      1111       Ws                  viat
L KeM us 'M                  1. fitirutpiataseeaqaapn   la) Pac5str of an. Rwanx.a         ITOIO        cFram                 ml:      in:       at:      01:        WAt      :WA
iN. Iminii wiSti             1. fraect feaecesstratces    Lea SO                            ISiSc     ISca n                   ax:      ax:    Ila:       oil        Wsc      :WeA
MMS    iSa *Stat. hhad.,o        tEN       Eapus S*hcsmp~d a1ige  a Soawet
SaNOW  * sa,ta..e mBinat.  SI
tUllS  *  alitecau a rteeauera 51
tF3 * meal Aiqeas.    rS        Cailex.t,, a hgasinea a a  a hiao Ieaeeta
IDo * hicaaiitiaa
a Lappe,



uuulluu~    ULLULUIU-.                                                      I"   I.Abft~ ~S  I                                          U            U
2  2 ~~~~~~~~uuua.                                                2                               2 ULU
*  2                          2               2~~~~~~~~~~~~wlngi                                                       ok-   &Pq    sswlanvum-
......... ....... .......... ..................  ........  .........  ........................... ...................................................
2              2.....  ....... ....... .......................................  ..........  .....................................................
2   2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~311
2W112flU1fl32132 UUUflUIUIWAJ~~~UUI ~g2UUWWIkWJWUUflhIflflUUflflflUL 
2  2       2                                       inrna~~~~~~~~:LLLLLu,.m                   -
2  2      ~                     ~                     ~                                                                am  P   SM24 245WS442  1 ~~~~~~~~~~IE2kUS 1~~l
22ZMIUIWI U21U*UIU4IIWUAUI2UIUZW*I 2112112112U.IUIUZWIMUIIfl             *        b~~~~~~~~ 225424                    PS  .24d244  P4 1224 ~~~~1
................  ...............   .......  .......  .......   ....................................................................
s                                  :32MM3=~llltllTh2Un.   PSP                                                                                         P~ 
....................   .............   ..........................  ......   .....u....................                                                                                                                          ......
.M3nM3n3: - :MMZDZn:MZM0333:ZDMMZ02121?lflS                                                                     2hU 3M &.3.r=                                                           EIJ~b
*  .        a2J1UJJJJl 2MUUZJZI 122121131U1 ~~W2L ua~uanzu.a2u...                                                        .            b~             ~     S*U.d M
-Ps ar
TnyrnyrrrL ~     ~           ~          ~          ~          n,  -
.3333nuSSa .....                       Im .......                                                 .             . ... . 4 .............. ...........  .......   .  ..2.....                                    ::'
m32  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                              - ~            ~ ~             -M--  .                          M1 -
:113TITTT 31211
-  -   m .:                                                                                        C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PU.. M
EL- Ir33=                              Zcz2 3= 333=zz=:
IdSM              I2 I               e              salI             Ie          Z    Im M  el a 2O   gUI   2283                I CM
- 9!"I  -M



-25-
RIL                                                                                              ASILO
Tale 7 C RIm lkcatra for Intwrasg Prflht EnotsIl
taalacatwr           Vsar          SEA     :      v till        tin                 IVPO  t 1t6i     :363  ItI"     t'ia
witleashatana         mac    :2        2       I       2:2I
a. ppaotg      a.iayahac                    aaavatma~~~~~~~~o tAnIpp               9ccemt1tac                                                                    I   1                                  to
----- ------                                           ulEa, t               Iagaosa~tac                                   :                                              14011    I   'fo ?iul       li:
lei Cacaca                            BCtumatas                                              I 2    2       3           12          122
2. astc Santano              gal Baca& Lcansa                       eCauLa                       :                         so0 : 1 10 2540  25H          nu2  : = 056    5
(bIIteraPFrtcraucct                  fttehltnm a Km                                           LOt    20      20:    SO!    Ii!       6       too:
IclluzCoair ad Fawan."wlvf            11ttmerit.mear                             2.     3      51      I     iso     IS:    29:
LCnrsatt,P.rtaclatan.   Cal TraacaaqLu &ChRAac taa.tcs              ICa.mautacstraaaaf                        I :     2      2:      3      4        :     1       22:    24       26      2
.    ......----- --                      - --             [am Jqcmrum.                           Lacew tKg                                                                     1.0     3.2    lA:   9.9:
C. aMCIPS. ShVItiS             1. swtan cast.               is comanan anm SW FranticO sn Ccactqapage I                         :                         tt    a        im      Su?     711    290
[i VW& DCu adlttawrca                 Ecuuet1                      :          in.   1sr    a:    an    in:   ii:  rn:
[C) sa.aor                            Emollient Ilt 1n                                  t   202    25       In:   it    Am1    E?   its?
1I1Caoawra                             4.prtIin                                       tsr   =a       a      in:   Su:    a:    ton
2. Nuaetc.ance        Is~al Saoaa                            IcectsEorb.et I             :              I                21301 Am i     tun :a  in1        on    l IK
Cal Lama.8                            E1lupatslticipcert I         :                       le?        f   timl  :21100?      a      on     I
cd Othecr imamcapalatans              IWetEemp.ene  I                                            : im er in    listin
3. RwrIts                    lal Saluair iCscstractiaai             Uwtartuict:al thi :s                     I                          Olins  tIlan    21151 :inont
-----                   Iii satmwar I4osatmiltatuonl           UrhetsflCanl marks I         :       0l*251 :til   211? :312b?2
ECl C4ndent                          IcarheOtaln   warkt         : ole  0/44? :n Sifl? lUI
Ill Coecana                           NkhegitsfAvz  mors I                                                Oln116  :i :/4?Ilitn
Rol Rgkan augct     lrlacw c          URtat Satis t'ascad         :            o:t0           1 1 :  2I 0    110 :  2  : 4 Sa  :al
LPOL?M  CVIVITiES              1. Ca.uctau                   Rol Satwadar lJcanmwie                 Haftes                                    2: 4s        6       10    17?:   Z50:    ii
2. iadeattnat                Eat SatNealr ltinitl                   Ha1tes                                      :                   to      o:    'A:   tin:   tLt
gl  Casecara  lastldg-  Wlatalsa     Sits                                        ..:                                 2:      3:
3. ScatL Set. Entrmrses   Iil Rsaq..at am  Skitl aTe:60o            Us-t.rmruses  rsvad          1         50 : 50     136    M tH 12500   1750 :  ON:
E.L1TrUfrS. KEEUNIFT           1. rttaat:ta   R         I.~   tal   m                               It". ct,w                   :natnauenw:Cmu  'ti,t :%sl. sput              mOa :  :t q.maal :snas :         KONtcM,:
2.  naScipd tKapmaut         [l. SalvWdar                           Cadatt  I                    :201   401 : u            on U   :ism        :       :
F.lWEntML auITMI               1. Fwuashtity Stalin          lea mactwrt C-atr of St-NW             It". campleted              %risam myc eta     lint prctea                :. 
L. CUNWtTU  MMS                1. Wetrectitso Rwamct   [l Rlacist,, el lUS.. Olcstec                [tIwo cmsila                !rc"esvamseacr:rcwce pctiry :rtsimacti.: attic.:              :       :



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 8: LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Calendar Year            Bank Fiscal Year                Disbursements
Semester Ending         Year      Semester          Semester   Cumulative
June      1986          FY86      Second              4.4          4.4a/
December  1986          FY87      First               1.1           5.5
June      1987          FY87      Second              1.9           7.4
December  1987          FY88      First               2.6          10.0
June      1988          FY88      Second              3.1          13.1
December  1988          FY89      First               3.6          16.7
June      1989          FY89      Second              4.1         20.8
December  1989          FY90      First               4.3          25.1
June      1990          FY90      Second              4.4         29.5
December  1990          FY91      First               4.4          33.9
June      1991          FY91      Second              4.3         38.2
December  1991          FY92      First               4.0         42.2
June      1992          FY92      Second              3.7         45.9
December 1992           FY93      First               3.1         49.0
June      1993          FY93      Second              2.6         51.6
December  1993          FY94      First               1.9          53.5
June      1994          FY94      Second              1.1b/       54.6
December  1994          FY95      First               0.4_/        55.0
a/  Includes US$3.0 million deposited into the Special Account upon loan
effectiveness and US$1.0 million retroactive financing.
b/ Rate of disbursement reduced to recover advance made to the Special
Account.



- 27 -                                   ANNEX I
BRAZ IL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9: Economic and Sensitavity Analysis
ERR           ERR                   ES
Ccponent                                                    Costs I 20l           7 yr. Impt.
A. UPGRADING                                      1l2           I12                    171
I.Upgrading                                    162           121                    17?
(a) Vale do Caburuqipe                         17:           132                   172
'1I Miolo                                      151           III                   Ibl
(cl Camacari                                   141           III                   141
2.Uasic Sanitation        .                    17?            14?                   192
3.Comeunity Participation                      NIA           N/A                   N/A
B. INFRASTRUCTURE                                 171            13?                  IOI
I.Primary Roads                                1.1           13:                   19?
C. MUNICIPAL SERVICES                             13? 112                              1
I.So'.d Haste                                  131           III                   13I
2.Naintenance                                  162            132                  162
3.Narkets                                      2'2           20?                   25?
D. PRODUt'IVE ACTIVITIES                          I19            14?                   18l
I.Commercial                                   tbt           12:                   ifi
2.1ndustrial                                   2-1?          161                   21?
(a) Salvador (DINURBI                         222            17?                   22?
(hI  Camacari (Building Haterialsi             19:           14?                   IOI
3.SmaIl Scale Enterprises                      MIA           N/A                   N/A
-E. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPNENT                     NIP            N/A                   N/A
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                          Nir             NlA                   N/A
S. METROPOLITAFI MANAGEMENT                       N/A            N/A                   N/A
il. ADMINISTRATION                                N/A           rn/A                  N/A
TOTAL                                  16?            132                   171



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annex 2: Project Components
Table of Contents
Page No.
A.  Upgrading  ***e***************.........................*.........                   1
Upgrading of Lou-Income Communities ........................                      1
Basic Sanitation Programs ...  ...... .......................                     1
Training in Basic Maintenance .. ....................  ........                   2
B.    Infrastructure ..........................                  .      .......*.       2
Primary Roads . ........................ 0.00-  ...............                   2
C.   Municipal Services ..........................................                      2
Solid Waste .................. . ...........             ..............           2
Maintenance ................................ . ................                   2
Markets ...............................................................           3
D.   Productive Activities .................. . ....................                    3
Commercial and Industrial Development .......................                     3
Small-Scale Enterprises ..... .............. .................                    3
E.    Institutional Development ....................  . ..                    ....      4
Metropolitan Management ........................... .........                     4
Municipal Management ........................................                     4
F.    Technical Assistance .......... . . ................. .. .........                4
Historic center of Salvador   ................................                    4
G.   Metropolitan Areas ...........................................        ........     4
Policies for the Management of Metropolitan Areas ...........                     4
H.   Administration   ......... a .........                          ...........        4
Project Adainistration ......................................                     4



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Components
A. Upgrading
1.        Upgrading of Low-Income Communities:  Building on the pilot site
development upgrading projects successfully completed under the engineering
loan, this program would expand these pilot projects to eleven low-income
communities comprising 147,000 inhabitants within the municipality of
Salvador and to twelve low-income communities comprising 25,000 inhabitants
within the municipality of Camagari.  The site development and upgrading
programs are estimated to cost US$34.7 million and are tailored to the
specific needs of each community and comprise inter-alia the legalization
of land tenure, provision of pre-fabricated modular staircases and drainage
channels (which help stabilize the valley sides where low-income groups
have settled in precarious conditions), simplified road paving for access
roadways (to provide access for public transport, solid waste collection
and other basic services), community facilities (creches, clothes washing
facilities, shops etc.), these programs have proven to be very cost-
effective and to have had positive impacts on urban poverty alleviation.
In most cases, residents have responded to these initiatives by improving
their dwelling units themselves and paying the increased property taxes
that have been levied to recover investment costs. Each community would be
encouraged to participate not only in the design and allocation of improve-
ment facilities, but also in the implementation process either through
self-help programs or with contributions to such programs.
2.        Basic Sanitation Programs:  These programs would comprise eleven
interventions in the municipality of Salvador and are estimated to cost
US$10.1 million.   They would:   (a) extend the already existing sewerage
network to serve some 60,000 low-income residents of Bacia do Lucaia; (b)
extend the existing network to serve some 90,000 low-income residents of
peripheral communities in the Vale of Camurugipe and in the Miolo (with the
aim of not only improving levels of health of the population but also maxi-
mizing the use of the pre3ent sewerage system and ensuring the economic
return on the investment already made); and (c) provide basic treatment
facilities (stabilization ponds) for sewerage being discharged from the
Cajazeiras and Fazenda Grande low-income settlements, which have a combined
population of 48,000 inhabitants (expected to reach 100,000 by 1990), and
which is currently polluting the Rio Jaguaribe and a series of beaches
(where it discharges into the sea) which are of prime tourist development
potential.
3.        Training in Basic Maintenance.  This program is estimated to cost
US$3.8 million and would provide technical services and equipment to train
residents of low-income communities (which would benefit from the upgrading



-30--                       ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
programs financed under the project) in the operation, maintenance and re-
pair of drainage and sanitary facilities within each community.   Lack of
basic maintenance by the community has caused severe problems in the opera-
tion of such facilities in the past and has, in some cases, required costly
repairs.   This program would aim  to preserve  the quality of services
provided under the project by community participation and awareness.
B. Infrastructure
4.        Primary Roads:  These programs are designed to provide improved
transportation access to the metropolitan area as a whole by completing
missing links between the eastern industrialized sector of the SMR and the
western  residential  and administrative sector.   More importantly,  they
would provide transportation access to the isolated but rapidly developing
central sector of the SMR, the Miolo, which already contains 470,000
medium- to low-income residents (27% of the total population) and which is
planned to accommodat~e about 50% of the housing demand between now and the
year 2000. Two primary roads are programmed to cross the Miolo area, Via
Saboeiro (3.0 km) and Via Jaguaribe (9.8 km) and are estimated to cost
US$31.1 million.  They would comprise the construction of dual 10 meter
wide carriageways, a central drainage canal, in the case of the Via
Saboeiro, a tunnel 220 meters long.
C. Municipal Services
5.        Solid Waste.   Although many municipal services require improve-
ment within the SMR, the lack of adequate solid waste collection and
disposal is not only becoming a health issue but also beginning to cause
problems to the storm water drainage network and the road network. Only
69% of households are presently served within the SMR and only 4Z of solid
waste collected is being adequately disposed of in the municipality of
Camagari.   The proposed solid waste collection and disposal program is
estimated to cost US$28.9 million and would address these issues through
increasing service to 90X of households by 1990, by providing adequate
facilities for the disposal of 100% of solid waste collected and by reduc-
ing and recovering the costs of collection and disposal (through improved
management of services) and by the introduction of adequate collection
charges to industrial, commercial and benefeciaries of the service.
6.       Maintenance.  Although routine and preventive maintenance services
are provided by the two major municipalities of Salvador and Camagari, the
standards of maintenance are not keeping pace with demands on urban road
and  drainage  infrastructure.    The  six  other peripheral  municipalities
provide little to no maintenance service.   The project would finance the
provision of maintenance, equipment and the construction of sixteen mater-
ials storage depots in Salvador, one maintenance depot in Camacari and one
maintenance depot in each of the three most populated peripheral munici-
palities (Candeias, Simoes Filho and Sao Fransisco do Conde). In addition,



- 31 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
the project would finance equipment for training maintenance staff in im-
proved maintenance procedures and management. This program is estimated to
cost US$14.5 million and is expected to reduce emergency repair costs by
75% and to reduce routine maintenance costs by 40%.
7.        Markets.  Municipal markets provide for the retailing of perish-
able goods (essentially fish, fruit and vegetables) to low-income groups
and have inadequate food storage facilities, especially for fish (a staple
food).  The program is estimated to cost US$3.8 million and would finance
the rehabilitation of three markets and the construction of three neighbor-
hood markets in Salvador, the construction of four neighborhood markets in
Camacari and the construction of a market in Candeias.  Seperate training
programs  associated  with  the municipal market improvement programs  in
Salvador, Camacari and Candeias would be provided by CONDER for stall
holders to improve accounting procedures, hygiene and marketing of
produce. These programs are estimated to cost US$0.4 million.
D. Productive Activities
8.         Commercial and Industrial Development.   In order to demonstrate
the viability of directing limited public sector investments (as against
the massive scale of public sector investments in the past) toward the
stimulation of GDP growth, the project would provide financing for two
pilot infrastructure investment components in Salvador.   The  two pilot
infrastructure components are estimated to cost US$3.0 million and are
located along the axis of the BR 324 federal highway, which has become the
principal industrial and commercial corridor in the SMR (outside of COPEC,
the CIA and the commercial center of Salvador). The first component would
demonstrate thu: stimulation of commercial activity through the provision of
sites and services for the development by the private sector of some 300
shops and service industries estimated to generate some 5,000 new jobs
within a commercial center in the Jaguaribe area (population 500,000).
The second component parallels the first but in the industrial sector with
special emphasis on promoting the relocation and expansion of labor inten-
sive medium- to small-scale industry from the downtown area.   Some 130
sites would be provided with the potential for generating 6,000 new jobs.
9.          The project would provide financing for the construction and
equipment needs of one production plant and the expansion and equipment
needs of two existing production plants in Camacari which, under municipal
control and ownership, produce basic building materials (soil cement
blocks, clay tiles and window frames and doors) for self-help upgrading
programs in low-income communities.   This program is estimated to cost
US$550,000. The project would also provide financing for training programs
(organized by CONDER) in the production of basic building materials.  These
programs are estimated to cost US$15,000.
10.      Small-Scale Enterprises.  This program is estimated to cost US$3.8
million and would provide technical services, training and equipment to
improve:  (a) management and financial accounting practices of some 8,300



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
small-scale industrial and commercial companies over four years; and (b)
the work skills of some 1,600 semi-skilled low-income service sector
employees.
E. Institutional Development
11.         Metropolitan Management.   This component is estimated to cost
US$9.7 million and would provide technical services, training, civil works
and equipment to strengthen the capacity of CONDER in metropolitan manage-
ment.  The operational capacity of CONDER would be improved through:  (a)
the strengthening of procedures for the management of metropolitan services
and the introduction of systematic analysis procedures of sectoral invest-
ments proposed by federal, state and municipal authorities in the SMR; (b)
the development of a metropolitan information system; (c) the strengthening
of procedures for the analysis of the SMR economy; and (d) development of
technical assistance tc municipalities in metropolitan finance and manage-
ment. This component is described in detail in Annex 3.
12.       Municipal Management.  This component is estimated to cost US$2.3
million and would provide technical services, training and equipment to
strengthen the capacity of the Municipality of Salvador in fiscal manage-
ment and financial planning (especially in the areas of tax collection and
enforcement, revenue budgeting and projection), land use planning and con-
trol, investment programming and infrastructure maintenance.  This compo-
nent is described in detail in Annex 3.
F. Technical Assistance
13.       Historic Center of Salvador.  This component is estimated to cost
US$0.6 million and would provide technical assistance to CONDER to assist
the Municipality of Salvador prepare technically sound and finavicially
viable proposals for the rehabilitation of the historic center of Salvador
and for the preservation of its historic, cultural, commercial and social
character.
G. Metropolitan Areas
14.      Policies for the Management of Metropolitan Areas.  This component
is estimated to cost US$0.9 million and would provide technical services
to MDU to assist in developing policies and proposals for metropolitan area
management derived from the experience gained in the preparation and
execution of the proposed project. This component would also include the
provision of training (staff and travel costs) to enable MDU to develop
their own technical capabilities in metropolitan management and those of
other metropolitan areas in Brazil through workshops and seminars to be
organized by MDU, in association with SDU/SUDENE for such areas in the
Northeast region of Brazil.
H. Administration
15.          Project Administration:   This component is estimated to cost
US$2.9 million and would provide the staff resources and equipment neces-
sary for the adequate administration of the project by CONDER.



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annex 3: Institutional Development
Table of Contents
Page No.
A. The Present System of Metropolitan Management ............... 1a
Metropolitan Regions in Brazil ..........................    I
Metropolitan Planning in Salvador    .......................    1
The Role of CONDER in Metropolitan Management ............   2
Constitutional Reform *...****........*..... ..   .... ..    2
B.  Institutional Development of CONDER ................ ...........   2
The Future Role of CODNDER .....* ......**..*****...........    3
Data Processing Capacity of CONDER .......... ......    3
Technical Capacity of CONDER ...... . ......... .........-  3
Metropolitan Information System ................... .......   3
Analysis of the SMR Economy ..... ..... ....................   4
Technical Assistance to Municipalities .....................   4
C. Institutional Development of the Municipality of Salvador ...   4
Improvements to the Cadastre .. .........................   4
Improvements in Tax Assessmpnt and Collection ............   5
Improvements in Planning and Programming .................   5
De Costs *      T:.etailedC....osEt.ae...........                  5
ATTACHMENT 1: Detailed Cost Estimates.



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELJPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Development
A. The Present System of Metropolitan Management
1.        Metropolitans Regions in Brazil:  In 1967, the revised Federal
Constitution included the provision for the creation for the first time in
Brazil of Metropolitan Regions.   Under federal law 14/72 (effective in
1973), eight metropolitan regions were established: Belem, Belo Horizonte,
Curitiba, Fortaleza, Porto Alegre, Recife, Salvador and Sao Paolo. Rio de
Janeiro was added in 1974. The legislation concerning these metropolitan
regions provided for the following:
(a)   the responsibility of the State for the coordination of common
services1/ within metropolitan regions and for the preparation
and execution of metropolitan development plans;
(b)   the establishment of Advisory and Deliberative Councils under the
chairmanship of the State to manage the development of metropoli-
tan regions; and
Ce)  the restriction in the use of federal funds in metropolitan
regions to financing only those investments which are compatible
with the metropolitan development plan.
2.         Metropolitan Planning in Salvador:   Metropolitan planning in
Salvador started in 1967 with the creation of a metropolitan planning
agency,  the  Coupanhia  de  Desenvolvimento  da  Regiao  Metropolitana  de
Salvador (CONDER), to plan for the expansion of the city, the development
of new industrial centers and the control of agricultural land use around
urban areas.   In 1973, and follcwing the establishment of the Salvador
Metropolitan Region, CONDER became the legal entity responsible for metro-
politan management, including the administration of the metropolitan devel-
opment fund, the Fundo Especial de Equipamento da Regiao Metropolitan de
Salvador (FEREM),1V under the guidance and control of the Advisory and
Deliberative Councils. CONDER published the first Development Plan for the
1/  The  law  defined  common  services  to  include:    urban development
planning, land use, ba-'c sanitation, transportation, the production
and distribution of piped gas and water resource use and control.
2/  Established in 1973, under State of Bahia decree 3.103.



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
SMR in 1978 which established the development strategy for the region until
1985. This plan was revised in 1982 and a second plan was published in
1984 for the development of the SMR until the year 2000.
3.        The Role of CONDER in Metropolitan Management:  CONDER is attach-
ed to the State of Bahia Secretariat of Science, Planning and Technology
(SEPLANTEC) which is responsible for the consolidation of the State devel-
opment program. Through SEPLANTEC, CONDER is able to coordinate the acti-
vities of State agencies in the SMR. The State budget is in the process of
being regionalized and the allocation of budget resources within the SMR
can now be identified which should enable CONDER to monitor and coordinate
the role of state agencies in the development of the SMR more effectively.
The management and coordination of municipal services in the SMR is under-
taken by CONDER through the Advisory and Deliberative Councils.  Each of
the nine municipalities which comprise the SMR is represented on the
Advisory Council; the five member Deliberative Council has two municipal
representatives, one from the capital city, Salvador and one representing
the remaining eight municipalities.   The allocation, by CONDER, of the
resources of the FEREH to municipalities in the SMR provides an effective
mechanism for encouraging municipal participation in metropolitan develop-
ment, under the guidance of both councils.   Although the channelling of
federal and state grant funds through the FEREM has provided incentives to
municipalities to participate in metropolitan development planning, and has
strengthened the role of CONDER in coordinating municipal services, it has
not encouraged the development of fiscal responsibility at the municipal
level.
4.        Constitutional Reform:  The current return to political democracy
in Brazil is out of step with  -  excessive centralization of decision-
making power. As a result, a constitutional reform is being scheduled for
late 1986 to provide greater decision-making and financial autonomy to the
states and municipalities. The nature of these reforms are currently being
worked out and consideration is being given to the possibility of introduc-
ing a 'fourth tier' of administration at the metropolitan region level
Whatever the final nature of these reforms, it is clear that they w7ill
encourage greater representation, participation and fiscal autonomy in the
metropolitan management process.  The institutional development component
of the proposed project would strengthen the capacity of CONDER and of the
municipalities in the SHR to manage the metropolitan area more effectively
within this framework.
B. Institutional Development of CONDER
5.         The project would strengthen the operational capacity of CONDER
for (a) adapting to the changes in the role of municipal, state and federal
agencies in the management of metropolitan areas; (b) introducing systemat-
ic analysis procedures for sectoral investments in the SMR as proposed by
federal, state and municipal authorities; (c) developing a metropolitan
information system including, inter alia, data on population, buildings,
economic activities and urban services; (d) the analysis of the performance
of the SMR economy; and (e) providing technical assistance in finance and
management to municipalities.



-36 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
6.          The Future Role of CONDER:  Under the project, CONDER would be
provided with technical services to undertake a study of possible changes
in the role of CONDER in metropolitan management arising from changes in
the political and legal responsibilities and functions of municipalities,
state governments and federal authorities likely to occur as a result of
the proposed constitutional reforms currently under review. The results of
this study would enable CONDER to develop itself to effectively meet the
needs of an increasingly participatory environment in public administration
in Brazil.
7.        Data Processing Capacity of CONDER:  The data processing capacity
of CONDER would be expanded by the provision of computing facilities (a
central mini-computer with 2 megabytes of internal memory and 400 megabytes
of storage capacity linked to 6 micro-computors), and the development of
computer programs for: (a) land use analysis, transportation modelling and
cartography; (b) cost analysis, economic analysis, financial analysis and
for controlling and monitoring procurement; (c) monitoring and evaluation
of the physical and financial performance of investment projects; and (d)
administrative support (inventory control, budgeting, accounting, personnel
records).   The  computing  equipment would  be  procured  under reserved
procedures and has therefore been excluded from Bank financing.
8.         Technical Capacity of CONDER:  The technical capacity of CONDER
staff would be strengthened by the provision of technical services and
equipment to train staff in economic and financial analysis, project con-
trol and supervision, data processing and cartography, within four key
areas of CONDER's operations: (a) metropolitan management; (b) support to
municipalities; (c) project management; and (d) the management of metropol-
itan services (solid waste disposal, transportation, water resources,
etc.).   The training programs would include courses held within CONDER,
visits to other agencies which adopt modern management practices and
seminars. A training unit would be established within CONDER in order to
identify specific training needs, plan, organize, coordinate and undertake
training programs and monitor the impact of training courses. The training
unit would be provided with staff, dudio-visual equipment and training
materials for undertaking in-house courses.
9.        Metropolitan Information System:  The present statistical, carto-
graphic and documentation system used by CONDER for preparing development
plans for dhe SMR would be expanded and organized into a consolidated
metropolitan information system.   CONDER's information center would be
provided with cartographic and data storage equipment and linked to the
computerized data processing system. Cartographic and cadastral data would
be updated regularly from municipal, state and federal information sources
and presented and stored at uniform scales. Statistical data would be up-
dated and formatted to facilitate comparison, analysis and retrieval.
Finally, the present documentation center would be expanded and reorganiz-
ed. The costs of expanding and operating the information and documentation
center would continue to be recovered from the sale of specialized informa-
tion, maps and publication, to interested agencies and the general public.



37-                          ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
10.        Analysis of the SMR Economy:  The capacity of CONDER to monitor
the performance of the SMR economy would be strengthened under the project
through the provision of technical services to undertake studies of:  (a)
the socio-economic characteristics of the SMR population by municipality
and neighborhood; (b) the labor market with particular attention to the
informal sector; (c) income and expenditure characteristics of the SMR pop-
ulation; and (d) the role of the private and public sectors in the SMR
economy.   The results of these studies would be consolidated to enable
CONDER to assess and monitor more effectively the potential impact of
private and public sector investment proposals on the economy of the SMR.
11.       Technical Assistance to Municipalities:  In order to strengthen,
expand and consolidate the role of CONDER in providing technical assistance
to the municipalities of the SMR, a new unit would be established within
CONDER. Building on the experience gained under the Engineering Loan (loan
2193-BR) in developing the administrative capacity of the wunicipality of
Lauro de Freitas, CONDER would develop a program for addressing the needs
of all municipalities in the SMR in the areas of: (a) financial management
and taxation; (b) urban planning and land use control; (c) operation and
maintenance of municipal services (solid waste collection and disposal,
markets, slaughterhouses, and urban infrastructure maintenance), and (d)
administrative  services  (building  permits,  subdivisions,  valuations,
licenses, etc.). Technical services would be provided under the project to
enable CONDER to undertake this program over a seven-year period for all
municipalities except Salvador for which a specific program has been idenr
tified (see paras. 11-14). The technical assistance unit would work inten-
sively with each municipality per year according to a priority ranking of
need but would provide general guidance to all eight municipalities on a
continuous basis.
C. Institutional Development of the Municipality of Salvador
12.         Under the project, CONDER would provide technical assistance,
training and equipment to the Municipality of Salvador in order to
strengthen the following critical areas of the municipality's administra-
tion: (a) restructuring and updating the cadastre; (b) tax assessment and
collection; and (c) investment programming and planning.
13.        Improvements to the Cadastre:  An important aspect of the fiscal
reforms proposed by the Municipality of Salvador is the updating and expan-
sion of the cadastre which provides the basis for property tax assessment
and collection. 0DNDER would assist the municipality in: (a) the develop-
ment of computer programs to facilitate the storage and analysis of cadas-
tral and property tax data; (b) the mapping and coding of the entire munic-
ipal street network to facilitate tax billing and collection procedures;
(c) updating the register of properties, land values, land ownership and
other data necessary to establish a complete, accurate and uniform fiscal
cadastre (by revising the municipal tax code to ensure consistency), and
provide for the updating and introduction of betteLment taxes and user fees
in a more systematic manner; and (e) undertaking studies of improved



- 38 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
revenue generation mechanisms including, where appropriate, the introduc-
tion of user charges for municipal services currently recovered indirectly
through general revenues (IPTU and ISS taxes).
14.      Improvements in Tax Assessment and Collection:  In parallell with
the improvements in the revenue base derived from the cadastral reforms,
CONDER would asssit the Municipality of Salvador in the assessment and
collection of tax revenues by:  (a) the consolidation of tax inspection,
assessment and collection procedures and the decentralization of the tax
inspectorate into fifteen tax districts within the municipality; (b) the
training of tax inspectors in tax enforcement procedures; and (c) the
development and initial testing of these procedures in one tax district on
a pilot basis and their subsequent replication throughout the citv.
15.       Improvements in Planning and Programming:  In order to strengthen
the capacity of the Municipality of Salvador in the planning and
programming of municipal investments, CONDER would provide assistance in
the development of expenditure budgets based on pluri-annual revenue pro-
jections and urban development growth estimates.  This would involve the
development of a five-year municipal services development plan and municip-
al revenue generation program derived from the Metropolitan Development
Program 1985-2000 prepared by CONDER and from updating the 1978 Salvador
Master Plan.
D. Costs
16.       The detailed costs of the Institutional Development component are
presented in Attachment 1 to the Annex.



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Development
Detailed Cost Estimates
(in US$'00O of January 1986)
Technical               Civil    Total
Component                  m/yr      Services    Equipment   Works    Costa/
A. CONDER
Future role study       7.6      380           -         -          380
Data processing        15.2      760           654       16       1,430
Technical capacity     34.6    1,730            70       -        1,800
Metropolitan
Information
System Management   51.6    2,580           346       -        2,926
Analysis of SMR
economy              6.0      300             5       -          305
Technical assistance
to municipalities   56.6    2,832            75       -        2,907
Subtotal              171.6    8,582         1,150       16       9,748
B. MUNICIPALITY OF SALVADOR
Cadastre               19.9       994          575       -        1,569
Tax collection         20.3       225           28       -          253
Planning and
programming           8.2      408            24       -          432
Subtotal               48.4    1,627           627       -        2,254
TOTAL                  220    10,209         1,777       -       12,002
al Including physical and price contingencies.



- 40 -                             ANE  4
BRAZIL
SALVADOR NETROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Table of Contents
Page No.
A. Introduction                          .I
B.  The State of Baia ................1
Financial Role   .         ............. 1
Impact of the Project on State Finance.......                  2
C.  Salvador Yetropolitan Development Fund (FERE R)E.............  3
FinLancial Role .....
Proposed FEREM Flow of Fundsu............ .......   4
Impact of the Project on FFREM Finances ....................  5
D. The ftnicipalities ........ 00..0.*...... ........ *..  6
Financial Role ...............          ....... ........ ..* 6
Recent Trends ......... .    .... ..................... 6
Conditions for Municipal Participationcipat...n.........   7
Impact of the Project on Municipal Finances ............t.. 10
Table 1: Key Financial Impact Indicators of Project
Table 2:  State Loan Impact Analysis:  Total Receipts and Expenditures
Table 3:  Metropolitan Development Fund (FEREM):  Projected Funds Flow
Table 4:  Municipal Budgets - Salvador:  Per Capita Revenues and Expendi-
tures
Table 5:  Municipality of Salvador:  Impact of Project and Financial
Reforms
Table 6:  Municipal Financial Monitoring Indicators
Table 7:  Impact of Project on Funicipal Finances - Salvador:  Project
Receipts and Expenditures
Table 8:  Impact of Project on Municipal Finances - Salvador:  Total
Receipts and Expenditures
Table 9:  Impact of Project on Municipal Finances - Salvador:  Financial
Balance Ratios



- 41 -                          ANNEY 4
Page 1 of 21
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPNMET PROJECT
Financial Analysis
A. Introduction
1.        The financial impact of the project on the State of Bahia, on the
Salvador Metropolitan Region (SYR), and individual municipalities has been
estimated through the analysis of key financial indicators measured with
and without the project, including (a) operating and maintenance costs,
(b) cost recovery, (c) subloan repayment, (d) fiscal capacity and budget,
Ce) Bank loan repayment by the State, (f) the capitalization of the
Salvador Metropolitan Development Fund (FEREY) and (g) the financial per-
formance of the Municipality of Salvador (where 871 of municipal invest-
ments would be provided through the project).
2.        This text is complemented by nine summary tables of the project's
impact on State, FEREM anzd Salvador Municipal finances.  A complemuntary
text, with tables that present the detailed analysis of State, FEREV,
Salvador and Camacari Municipal finances, is available in the Project File.
B. The State of Bahia
Financial Role
3.         Sources of Receipts:  The State's major sources of receipts are
tax revenues, federal transfers and borrowings. The value-added tax IJCW)
has provided over 95X of total tax receipts and is the major revenue source
for the state's current operations (around 70).  The State's freedom to
levy the ICY is restricted by the federal government's authority to
determine the tax base and rates.   Federal  transfers may  support the
State's current or capital operations, and they derive from revenue sharing
(participation funds), earmarked sources (such as royalties from petroleum
refinement), as well as ad-hoc transfers. Federal transfers, borrowing and
current account surpluses have been the major sources of receipts for
capital outlays.
4.           Expenditures:   The State's major expenditures are transfers,
administration costs and debt servicing. Unlike state agencies and muni-
cipalities, the State Government generally is not responsible for making
capital investments. Rather, its primary development promotion role is to
transfer resources to priority regions and sectors through appropriate
implementing institutions. The State is legally obligated to transfer 2Oy
of total ICM revenues to municipalities, and it may provide municipalities
with additional, discretionary ICM transfers.   Around 451 of the State's
total current expenditures have been transfers, including those to state
agencies that do not have direct cost recovery capacity. Somb 65% of total
capital expenditures have been transfers to state agencies and municipali-
ties.



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 21
5.           Recent Trends:  The first half of this decade has presented
significant shifts in the management of state finances. During a period of
economic crisis, the State has maintained a generally increasing level of
total expenditures.  With Federal Government transfers decreasing in rela-
tive importance as a state revenue source (24% of total revenues 1in 1979;
18% in 1984), state expenditures increases have been financed primarily
through consistently bouyant ICM revenues and through borrowings(especially
in 1981 and 1984).  The State has providee relatively stable support for
the recurrent expenditures of implementing agencies through transfers, but
support for capital improvements has been erratic due to lumpy borrowing.
6.        Because of high borrowings over the 1981/84 period, debt service
accounts for 30% of current expenditures in 1985, compared to 16% in 1984.
Deficits are expected between 1985 and 1987, and these would have to be met
by further borrowing and/or reductions in physical investments and trans-
fers for current expenditures.'/ Without the project, the State would not
be able to meet demands for additional capital investments financed through
transfers until 1991, when the State would have approximately US$160-200
million equivalent available for such transfers, as compared to US$170 mil-
lion equivalent of capital transfers provided by the State in 1984.  The
State Government must borrow if it is to continue to make a significant
contribution to development of the State through transfers (grants or
loans).
Impact of the Project on State Finances
7.         Under the project, capital transfers would be made by the State
to state agencies and municipalities of the SMR. These would be financed
from the proceeds of the Bank loan (36%), loans from BNH (22%), federal
grants (20%), and state budget allocations (22%).  The State would repay
the proceeds of the Bank loan to the Federal Government under the same
terms and conditions as between the Bank and the Federal Government.
Repayment of the BNH loan would be at an interest rate of 5.5%, 20 years
repayment plus two years grace.   FEREM would repay to the State US$15
million equivalent of the proceeds of the Bank loan on the same terms and
conditions as between the State and Federal Governments. (See para.16).
8.         The State of Bahia would assume the foreign exchange risk.  The
risk of international inflation already is reflected in the project's price
contingencies. The primary additional foreign exchange risk is devaluation
of the Cruzado relative to other currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar.
1/  State and municipal revenues and expenditures are reported on a cash
basis, and therefore yearly surpluses and deficits do not reflect
accrued revenues and expenditures.  If an annual overall deficit is
not met by accrued revenues, this generally results in reduced
transfers and/or increased borrowings in the folowing year.



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 21
Sensitivity analysis was performed through increasing the State's debt ser-
vicing by 20% on the foreign loan portion of the State's 1985 debt portfo-
lio, and on the debt service resulting from the project. Cruzado devalua-
tion by 20Z would have the greatest impact in 1986, increasing the debt
service to current expenditures ratio by 0.04, and it would become insig-
nificant after 1992 (Table 1).
9.        Because of the grace periods included in the loan financing plan,
the impact of the project would have little effect on the State's financial
constraints during 1985-1988, and in 1989 the already contracted debt
burden is scheduled to decline substantially.   By 1991, even without new
borrowings outside the project, the State may expect to have a surplus of
approximately US$130-150 million equivalent available for additional capit-
al transfer expenditures (Table 2).
10.       The project would provide for fundamental reforms in the State's
financial participaction in the development of the SMR. First, it would
introduce onlending from the State to FEREM under terms and conditions that
would permit capitalization of the fund as well as reduce the burden to the
State of servicing the proceeds of the Bank loan (para. 17).  Second, it
would reduce the need for capital transfers as grants to municipalities
(paras. 11 and 16). Third, it would lead to a more regular and manageable
flow of funds to the State agencies and municipalities responsible for the
provision of urban services in the Salvador Metropolitan Region (para. 20).
C. Salvador Metropolitan Development Fund (FEREM)
Financial Role
11.        FEREM was established in 1973 by State Drecree.  Its objective
is to consolidate and provide financing for capital investments, feasibili-
ty studies and technical services to municipalities and state agencies in
accordance with the development plan for the Salvador Metropolitan Region.
The resources of the FEREM include annual allocations from State and Munic-
ipal Participaiton Funds, fuel tax revenues, royalties from the COPEC
petro-cheinical complex, and have included borrowings.   To date, financing
from the FEREM has been provided as grants, although the FEREM charter
provides for the lending of funds.
12.        A central objective of the project is to improve the process of
resource allocation within the SMR. Complementary to this objective is the
need to provide a continuous and predictable flow of loan financing for
municipal capital improvements programs, and to reduce the need for ad-hoc
federal and state transfers in the financing of municipal services.
13.        To meet these objectives, the State Government has proposed the
creation of a revolving fund within FEREM:
(a)   to serve as a mechanism for the consolidation of loan financing
for municipal investments;
(b)   to provide for the repayment to the Federal Government of a
substantial proportion of its contribution to the project; and



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 21
(c)   to provide for the permanent  capitalization of the fund for
future municipal onlending.
14.        The onlending terms and conditions of the revolving fund within
FEREM would meet the following conditions:
(a)   they should be competitive with alternative sources of municipal
credit;
(b)   they  should  be  affordable  to  municipalities  as  development
institutions; and
(c)   they should provide FEREM with revenues sufficiently bouyant to
repay the State Government (para. 16) and to provide adequate
future credit for municipal development projects.
15.        It is clear that these conditions provide potential conflicts of
reconciliation as, for example, of highly bouyant FEREM revenues with muni-
cipal affordability. They should also be applied within realistic expecta-
tion regarding the pace at which municipal financial reforms necessary for
municipal affordability may be achieved (See Section D below).
Proposed FEREM Flow of Funds:
16.        After analysis of numerous alternative flow of funds scenarios
(available in the project file) the State proposes the following relation-
ships between FEREM, municipalities, state agencies (CONDER) and the
Federal Government as fiscally responsible, institutionally affordable, and
politically achievable.
(a)  FEREM would onlend to the municipalities of the SMR US$39.4 mil-
lion equivalent and to CONDER US$8.4 million of the proceeds of
the Bank loan (exclusive of Bank participation in the financing
of training, institutional development and technical assist-
ance). This represents 58% of the total of FEREM's support of
municipal investment components.   The FEREM subloans would be
comparable to BNH terms and conditions, as follows:
(i) for equipment -interest of 6% per annum, 7 year repayment
period, plus 3 of grace;
(ii) for infrastructure -same conditions as for equipment, except
15 years for repayment plus 3 of grace.
(b) FEREM would repay to the State US$15 million equivalent of the
proceeds of the Bank loan (which represents 10X of the total
project cost) on the same terms and conditions as between the
State and the Federal Government.



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Pagc. 5 of 21
17.        In summary, the project would introduce for the first time FEREE
onlending to municipalities and a State agency to complement grant
financing. The terms and conditions of municipal and CONDER subloans would
be consistent with those applied by BNH because of the blending of
borrowing and grant sourtes of FEREM's receipts (see Annex 1, Table 4).
MuLicipal subloans would be guaranteed by the municipal share of the ICM
tax; CONDER subloans would be guaranteed by the State.   Municipal and
CONDER subloan repayment to FEREM would be at 6% per annum interest on 58X
(US$47.8 million equivalent) of the total FEREM financing to municipalities
and CONDER (US$81.8 million equivalent).   FEREM repayment to the State
Government would be at 9% per annum interest on 18% (US$15 million
equivalent) of the total FEREM financing to municipalities and CONDER.
This repayment by FEREK would provide debt servicing coverage to the State
for 28Z of the total Bank proceeds benefitting the State.
Impact of the Project on FEREM Finances
18.       Following an initial period through 1989, during which relatively
modest annual cash flow deficits would be incurred on administration costs
until significant municipal and CONDER loan repayments start to flow, it
would be possible to generate surpluses for re-lending to municipalities at
the level of about US$2.8 million equivalent per year by 1995 (Table 3).
This would represent about 15% of the project's peak annual municipal
investment program and, at the same time, contribute almost 30% towards
total debt service obligations of the State, excluding BNH loans which
would not be channelled through FEREM. Sensitivity analysis indicates that
any higher contribution towards state debt servicing would make FEREM
ineffective as a fund to continue to finance development in the SMR.
19.       Because FEREM would repay, to the State $15 million equivalent of
the proceeds of the Bank loan on the same terms and conditions as between
the State and Federal Governments, it would also assume the foreign
exchange risk.  This could result in its debt service obligations to the
State exceeding municipal loan repayments, causing decapitalization of the
fund. The highest risk period would be in 1986, when Crazado devaluation
could result in a debt service to municipal repayment ratio greater than
1.0, although on a relatively small debt service obligation. After 1987
the foreign exchange risk would be significantly smaller with a ratio less
than 0.8 (Table 1).
20.         As a result of the project, FEREM would become a unified fund
roviding loan financing for municipal capital improvements projects.
/This unification of FEREM operations would require the following reforms
Tn the FEREM charter proposed by the State of Bahia:
-   All of FEREM's surplus receipts resulting from the project (total
municipal debt service to FEREM net of FEREM's debt service
obligations to the State, as well as the project's administration
2/   Although FEREM would continue to provide financing to state agencies
for investments in the SMR, under the project it would significantly
strengthen its role as a support institution for metropolitan
municipalities.



- 46 -                           ANNE[ 4
Page   of 21
costs  to  FEREI)  would  be  made  available  for  onlending  to
metropolitan municipalities at terms and conditions comparable to
those of BWH; and
All additional FEREM resources available to municipalities out-
side the project would be gradually (phased over 5 years)
shif.ed from grant transfers to municipal loans under conditions
comparable to those of FNH.
21.       These reforms would transform PERET from an institution primarily
responsible for the administration of state ad-hoc grants to a metropolitan
development institution.
D. The Nunicipalities
Financial Role
22.       Brazilian municipalities provide about two-thirds of total public
expenditures for housing and urban services. They also account for signif-
icant prooortions of total public expenditures for health and sanitation,
education, and transport and communications3/.   Provision of these ser-
vices generally results in high operation and maintenance expenditures that
many municipalities have difficulty in meeting through current revenues.
The major municipal own-source current revenues are the property tax (IPTU)
and the services tax (ISS).  These provide general revenues available for
the provision of virtually any local service, with, however, little or no
linkage between payment of taxes and receipt of service benefits.  User
char&3s generally do not fully recover service costs, requiring service
account deficits to be covered by general revenues. In most cases, current
transfers (primarily of the ICN tax) contribute over half of total current
revenues. Capital outlays are financed by capital grant transfers, borrow-
ings and, rarely, current account surpluses. With the generally decreasing
amount of grant transfers available for capital revenues, borrowings have
become of increasing importance for municipal capital improvements pro-
grams.
Recent Trends
23.         Because of the export-oriented structure of the SMR's economy,
municipal financial conditions were particularly vulnerable to the 1983
recession.   In the lunicipality of Salvador,  current account receipts,
3/   D.J. Wahar and W.R. Dillinger, Financing State and Local Govermnent in
Brazil, World Bank Staff Working Papers No. 612, 1983, Table 4.



- 47 -                            AN1EF 4
Page 7 of 21
which historically have accounted for about 70 of total income, fell in
1984 below the 1980 real per capita level. Over the 1982/84 period, user
charge, IPTU and ISS revenues fell by 5Q9 and 361  and 27% respectively.
As a result, state allocations of the ICY constituted 4;'  of total 1984
current revenues in Salvador, compared to 311 in 1q83 (Table 4).
24.        Faced with these constraints, the Municipality of Salvador took
action to reduce expenditures sharply. The capital investment program for
1983 was cut back to 1980/1981 levels and was further reduced in 1984.
Administration, operation and maintenance costs increased in real terms by
23f per year on average from 1979 to 1Q82, at which time they constituted
60 of the current account budget. Real growth in current expenditures in
1983 was therefore trimmed to around 39, and was reduced by 14% in 1984.
Further reductions in current expenditurs could jeopardize operation and
maintenance of existing municipal services and facilities.
25.        Reductions in current expenditures were not enough, however, to
counter the poor performance of local taxes and service charges, and the
Municipality of Salvador incurred a significant deficit on current account
in 1984. Considering the Federal and State Governments' limited capacity
to provide grant transfers, very few resources would be available for ur-
gently needed capital investments over the next few years without serious
action to increase local revenues.
26.         The financial conditions prevailing in other municipalities in
the SMR differ considerably.   In the Municipality of Camagari, the large
petro-chemical complex provides ICM revenues 6 times as large on a per
capita basis as those of Salvador. Current revenues in Camacari have aver-
aged around three times those of the Nunicipality of Salvador on a per
capita basis, and have generally increased over the 1979/84 period in real
terms. In 1984, current revenues were 341 greater than in 1980, compared
to a decline of 10% in Salvador.  However, within these overall trends, own
source revenues from the property and services taxes, and service charges
have been declining.   Nevertheless, the relatively high level of income
from the large petro-chemical complex in Camagari has resulted in very high
levels of expenditure by the Municipality such that per capita investment
levels have averaged two times the level in Salvador, and current expendi-
tures have been running at two to three times the Salvador level on aver-
age. As a result of these expenditure policies, the Municipality of Cama-
cari has incurred overall budgetary deficits every year since 1979.   In
contrast to Salvador, where municipal management needs to focus on improv-
ing local revenue performance, in Camacari urgent attention is required on
budgetary responsibility and expenditure control.
27.        The remaining municipalities are on the fringe of the metropoli-
tan  area.    With  little  commercial  or  industrial  development,  their
resources are very limited and improved financial management would be re-
quired if these areas are to absorb the additional population expected.
Their financial prospects and potential for improvement are presently being
evaluated by COlDER.   A review of the representative Municipality of
Candeias (analysis available in the Project File), indicates that efforts
to strengthen its finances would focus on revenue administration, including



- 48 -                            ANN3X 4
Page 8 of 21
improvements to the property tax and establishing pricing policies that
bring service charges more into line with service costs, and on capital im-
provements  programming.   CONDER would support this municipal financial
management strengthening process beginning in 1986.
Conditions for Municipal Participation
28.       In order for the project to be effectively implemented under the
proposed financing plan, as well as for project components to be properly
operated and maintained, municipal financial management capabilities would
be strengthened. Especially in the Municipality of Salvador, where 871 of
municipal project components financed through FEREM would be concentrated,
strategies for project-related revenues and for general firancial reforms
(both  necessary  to  cover  municipal  debt  servicing,  operation  and
maintenance costs of the project) would be implemented and carefully
monitored.
29.          In the Municipality of Salvador the sum of project revenues
directly attributable to the project under current municipal management
practices (without financial reforms) are estimated to cover only about 12%
of incremental outlays under the project in the period through 1995. The
costs of solid waste, infrastructure maintenance and primary roads are
traditionally financed from general revenues, and in order to support these
investments, the Municipality of Salvador proposes, starting in 1986, to
implement the following revenue reforms: (a) increase collection charges
for solid waste; and (b) implement administrative improvements to the
cadastre.   Both measures fall within the jurisdiction of the Municipali-
ty,4/
30.         The existing solid waste collection charges on industrial and
commercial properties would be increased gradually to recover a proportion-
ate share of the incremental annual service costs. The share of industrial
and commercial properties in total incremental annual service costs is
estimated at about 28%, and the recovery of this share would provide addi-
tional revenues as presented in Table 5. This would do much to establish
the principle of bringing service charges more into line with the costs of
providing the service, and would generate significant additional revenue
{about US$2 million equivalent by 1991).  Agreement would be sought at
negotiations that, as a condition of dibursements on solid waste components
in Salvador, a program has been initiated to increase collection charges
for industrial and commercial properties in accordance with revenue targets
acceptable to the Bank (Table 6).   The introduction of a solid waste
charge on residential property would be considered after the cadastral
reforms have been implemented and after the solid waste service has been
expanded to cover more residential properties.
4/   In addition, the Municipality intends to organize market vendors into
associations which can take over responsibility for managing these
facilities in accordance with agreed procedures.  A municipal charge
would be levied to recover the Punicipality's capital investment.
Vendores would organize associations resposible for all market
operation  and  maintenance  costs.    The  Municipality  sees  this
arrangements as an opportunity to eliminate its obligations for
operation and maintenance costs for markets.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 21
31.       The municipal cadastre is the information base for assessment and
collection of local property (IPTU) and service (ISS) taxes.  In 1984, the
Municipality of Salvador collected US$4.8 million and US$7.8 million equi-
valent from the IPTU and ISS respectively. On a per capita basis, these
revenues, especially IPTU, are low compared to other state capital munici-
palities in Brazil5/, as well as to other municipalities of the SMR.
32.       The poor performance of Salvador's IPTU has resulted from: (i) a
low collection efficiency (receipts/billings) of 60%; (ii) poor cadastre
coverage, with 1985 estimates indicating that 200,000 properties are not
registered, at least 90,000 of which are in areas with incomes sufficent to
contribute to the IPTU; and (iii) a growing gap between the cadastre's
assessed and market property values.  The first two of these performance
areas could be improved strictly with administrative reforms to the
cadastre and would be implemented directly by municipal staff without the
need for approval by the municipal council.
33.       Considering the critical need for improved local revenue perform-
ance for successful project implementation in the Municipality of Salvador,
the following administrative reform targets for IPTU revenues were agreed
to at negotiations:
(a) Collection efficiency from 60Z to 85Z, phased over 1986/88; and
(b) Expansion of the cadastre from 360 thousand to 450 thousand prcr-
perties units by 1987.
34.       Because implementation of these administrative reforms would have
a cumulative effect, it is estimated that their combined implementation
would produce increases over the 1984 IPTU revenue base of 14%, 60% and 782
in 1986, 1987, 1988 and beyond. It also is estimated that an updated pro-
perty tax register would enable a 25% increase in the ISS, phased from 1986
to 1988.   The impact of solid waste and cadastre reforms  implemented
together with project investments is presented in Table 5.
35.       Implementation of these revenue reforms would place the finances
of the Municipality of Salvador on a much sounder foundation.   With the
additional revenues resulting from solid waste user charges and cadastral
administrative reforms, Salvador would be able to make a significant con-
tribution to an expanding capital improvements program increasinglyfinanced
from own-source revenues.   It should be noted that in the case of IPTU,
additional revenues resulting from administrative reform measures would not
increase the tax burden on present taxpayers.   The additional revenues
would come from property owners that shouid bave been paying property taxes
in the past, but either did not respond to billings or were not included in
the cadastre.
5/   See Mahar and Dillinger, Tables 2 and 11.



- 50 -                   ANN  4
Page 10 of 21
36.        The Municipality of Salvador's debt service, operation and main-
tenance costs under the project would be covered by reformed municipal
taxes and user carges, as follows:
(a)   Infrastructure: Primary Road improvement expenditures would be
fully covered by increased property taxes in the
areas directly served by the extended primary
road network (3l) and by reforms in the IPTU and
15 (qS7).
(b)   Municipal
Services:       Solid waste collection and disposal services ex-
penditures for industrial and commercial proper-
ties would be totally covered by increased indus-
trial and commercial user charges; services for
residential beneficiaries would be covered by in-
creased IPTIT and ISS revenues initially and by
the  phased  introduction  of  residential  user
charges over time; maintenance services would be
totally covered from increases in general reve-
nues, principally the IPTY and ISS; market
improvements would be fully covered by user
charges (rental fees).
Cc) Productive
Activities:     Commercial  and  industrial  sites  expenditures
would be fully covered by land sales.
37.        Reducing the gap between the cadastre's assessed property values
and market values in the Municipality of Salvador would be considered after
the administrative reforms are well underway. If assessed values increased
from the present 60% to 80% of market values over the 1988/89 period, the
cumulative increase of all IPTU reforms would be approximately 140% over
the 1984 base. However, introduction of updated property values, affecting
present property taxpayers and potentially producing resistence, would be
carefully phased so as not to jeopardize administrative fiscal reforms.
38.       In the Municipality of Camagari, the financial strategy agreed to
during negotiatives would focus more on financial planning and budgetary
management than on revenue reforms.   Significant reductions in existing
expenditure levels are needed, and the Municipality of Camasari would
endorse a financial policy of balanced budgets.
39.       Financial performance monitoring indicators are presented for the
Municipalities of Salvador and Camagari in Table 6. These indicators were
agreed to at negotiations and would be conditions of disbursement.
Impact of the Project on Municipal Finances
40.        Because of the heavy concentration of project components in the
center of the SMBR, the Municipality of Salvador would incur a major debt
service burden (Tables 7-9). However, because of grace periods, this would



- 51 -               AIN   4
Page 11 of 21
not start to be felt to a significant degree until 1990.  By that time,
loan charges on existing debt would be reduced considerably, from 241 of
total current expenditures in 1985 to about 12'( and within the limits
prescribed  by  the Federal  Government.   The   Municipality  would  not
undertake substantial additional borrowing outside the project without
prior  consultation with  CONDER.    Improved  efficiency  in  maintenance
operations would be made possible with new equipment financed under the
project.    Nevertheless,  additional  maintenance  costs  would  increase
gradually through the period to 19q5 to about 9< of current expenditures at
that time.
41.          In Camasari, project investments (USS5.0 million equivalent)
would represent only about 54% of total investments over the past four
years. Additional debt servicing, operational and maintenance expenditures
resulting from the project would represent some 7% of the current account
budget in 1990.  With appropriate control over its overall expenditures,
and even without significant revenue reforms, the lVunicipality of Camagari
would not have difficulty absorbing the loan satisfactorily, as well as
maintaining historical levels of other services.



SAZNNP P lT  .TTN  1Y%vPvT PlTFr1T
TANF 1 KISFY VTKCA  1WPACr 1mrlTS  V PI=CT
1985         IQP 6        lqp7         IQ9R          I*q89        1Iqq9 11                   I92          1093         194          1995
state of Rahia
-OJrTet Acaxmt Aual  /D  a                      -53.,n        -62.sR        -51.26;        8.0         46.R2        04,7q        120,R3      17.64        224.n0        262.3n       302.61
-unulative rlrrent Accnt SID                    -531.l       -115.58       -166.R      -1S.75      -111.93       -17.14        111.69       2QQ.33       523.*5        7RM.s5     I,nF.28
-Total Animl S/f                               -120m          -43.R8        -13.82        26.21        fA.75        111.61       149.87       21l.07       21.11        291.27       333.1n
-O'ulati9e Total R/D                           -120.n3       -163.R8       -197.71      -171.9n      -in6.76          0.fi,      156.73       lhR.69       614.sn        qII.07     1,244.17
-btal rlebt Service/irrent  ,pqenirtibre
Vorejp FwJuiw Risks
. Stahility in CziA to IISS Fx2ccIe b/         n..30         n.11         n.31         n.25          n.21         n,lq         n.17          0.13         0.17         n.1n         nn*Q
. Cnzado Irvalitiatli  c/                      0.1?          0.35         n.14          n.2R         n.25         0.21         0.10          n.14         n.12         0.1!         O.X9
-fTtal Anmal S/h                                   -           -0.07         -0.17        -n.18t       -0.ns         n0.4          0.93         1.7n         2.12          2.6R         2.76
-nmulative  /D                                     -           -n.n7          0.24        -n.41        -0.46         -0.12         0.81         2.51         4.AI          7.51        1n.27
-hebt Servie/Anicipal Renayrent
, Foieipn RxdwV  Risks
. Stability In SzR to IT."  Excang              -            i.on         n.71         n.66          n.6n        n0.56         n.5           n.48         n.45         0.42          0.41
. (rub Desaluation                              -            1.2n         0.85          n,7Q         n.72         0.67         n.61          0.7          0.54         0.51         0.s0
'tmic>ieiitv of Salvador
-Mrrent Accurnt Amial 'c/D                       -1.71          n.07          4.90         7.14         9.12         10.5n        11.2n        11.12         14.42        16.57        2n.33
-Gvulative Mtrrent Acetmt S/D                    -3.71         -3.64          1.26         8.45        17.57         28.n7        39.28        52.34        h6.1          P3. 1R      103.70
-Total AMal VD                                   -1.96           1.98         7.11         q.77        12.02         13.43        14d,l        15.74         16.98        lq9rA        22.45
-riulative Total R/D                             -I.q6          NM.2          7.11        16.9n        2R.93        42.35         Sh.43        72.17        RQ.16        IrF.24       131.IR
-Deht Servlce/riarrent FxperU turus               n.24          n,19         n016          n 14         n.11         0.09          0. I00 n,nq              N00           0.n           n.07
Mntlicrulity of CAnacar1
-Current Acc*zmt Amrial SrI                       1.60          Jhn           2.39         2.79         3.21          1,R3         S.43         6.n6         6.Rl          7.70         8.57
-nmulatlw  Oarrent AccoLnt S/D                    1.60          3.59          5.97         A.76        1 1.6         15.70        21.22        27.2R        74.11         41.AR       5.N
-TIotal Ammal R/D                                 1.nl          2.28         27.9          1. In        3.67          4.45         6.n6         6.71         7.51         8.4n          9.29
-aQwmlattve Total sAI                             1.01          3.2q          5.07         q.nR        12.75         17.20       21.26         29.98        37.4R         45.N         55.17
-Debt Service/Ojrrent Fxperditures                0.26          0.25         .n24          n.23         n.22          n.22         0.16         n. 16        0.15          n.           0. US
Notin: I/ sRD:  Surplus/neficit in IISS milliina of Jinvurv 1986.
2/ Foreim  exwm     risk iR waxTrA   of tm  key elemwtRs.  Ftrst it Internatioral inflAtion, prirurily of the II58, mid thiR risk alreadv Is incormrystad in price contirnwnien. The
aead elament oF ri-Ik is dewaltiatim of the CzR relative to the F'SR. This lrUicator reflects the first element nf the Prolect's foreign ex,hrwe risk.
3/ nis Indicrator reflects the foreign Pycchiw    risk of a 2n0  devaluation of the CM  relAtIW  to the ISC applied to the project's TM) len, -  w1l1 u  the foreim lamn oortion of rhe
state's 19R5 dnht portfolio.



IRAIIL
SALYADOR METROPOLITAN OEYELOPhENT PROJECT
laile 2: STATE LOAN IIPACT ANALYSIS
Total Receipts and E;penditur;s
(in USI pillionm of January 19i4)
1995         2994         1997          1919         1999         199o          1991         2992          1993         2994      1995
CURRENT CIPElEITUfES                                                    4O2.27        641.51       474.43       459.t0        444.47       47.95         494.35       413.44        70.49        7131.32   758.34
Sneral Adeomsistratmon                                                190.73        (91.57       203.07       215.25        226.17       241.64       254.37        271.75       291.04        305.34   323.44
trinif gs                                                             243,01       253.29        263.93       275.02       284.57        298n.0       311.15        324.21       '17.93       352.02   344.90
Debt Sernvicing                                                       179.44        203.1k       209.43       149.14        151.94       127.49        111.93        97.50        90.59         73.94    47.9e
heel in.                                                           179.44       203.02        209.42      1(7.22        142.01        117.59       109.97         77.47        70.42        44.23    58.49
Project Loan- link                                                   0.00         0.59          1.05         1.74         9.24          9.74         9.24          7.92         7.41         7.00      4.59
ProJect Loan - INN                                                   0.00         0.04          0.14         0.34          0.49         1.14          1.70         2.21         2.51         2.74      2.92
CAPITAL ElPEItURES                                                      244.04         75.39        94.90         94.15        07.25        112.!7       110.73       103.20         97.10        94.55    99.69
PtyelcallInve.tente                                                    44.1l         49,q4        71.95         74.97        71.02         11. 9        14 71        99.27        91.97         95.94    99.94
inf astracture                                                       3.04         3.19          3.32         3.44         3.421         374          3.92          4.08         4,25         4.43      41.42
SgcIKI   Projects                                                    59.90        42.32        14493         47.44         70.50        73           74.           79.74        93.12        94.0    90.24
Others                                                                3.31         3.45          3.60         3.75          3.91         4.           4.24          4.42         4.41          4.90      5.00
Financial Innvestinto                                                   0.02          0.02         0.02          0.02         0.02         002           0.02         0.02         0.02          0.03      0.03
Tranifers                                                             177196          4.40        15.03         21.25        29.21        3i25          25,99        (4.92         5.10          0.49      0.00
laudll t                                                           177.54         0.00          0.00         0,00         0.0           0.00        0.O           0.00         0.00         0.00      0.00
link Loan                                                            0.00          2.92         5.27         9.42        1(2.3         12,42         9.32          3'79 0.45                 0.04      0.00
934 Loan                                                             0.00         0.47          2.21         3.25          4.37         4.90          7.21         5.419        2.70          0.24      0.00
Federal Grant                                                        0.14          1.49        -305          4.44          4.03         5.74         445           2.73         0.99         0,11      0.00
Stats ludlet Allocation                                              0.18         2.32          4.49         4.73          5.99         51.9         4.91          2.42         0.99          0.29      0.00
TOTAL EIPENDIITlRES                                                     944.33        723.99       763.53        755.75       773.92       710.C2        797.07       794.44        103.57       927.97   959.23
CURRENT REVENUES                                                        549.27        585.93       425.37        447.70       713.49        762.74       115.11       171.10        930.50       99!.63  (010.97
law Recelpt.                                                          423.32        454.45       418.42       524.49        543.99       405.94        450.91       491.94       750.45        904.21   i45.92
ICR
-lasollne                                                          409.27       439.94        472.94       509.43       546.54        597.54       431.42        478.99       729.92       794.44   143.51
;Project                                                             0.00         0.05          0.21         0.34          0.74         1.14          1.21         1.21         1.21          1.21      1.21
rvies Chirqls                                                         4.42          4.11         5.01         5.22          5.44         5.67          5.92         4.16         4.41          6.41      4.94
Others                                                                9,43          9.93        10.24         (0.47        ((.12        11.59         22.03        22.53        13.11         13,44    14.24
lTrnsfert                                                              79.00         82.32        85.79 19939                93.23        97.04        201.12       105.37       109.79        114.40   229.21
Ot" rs                                                                 44.95         49.92        50.97         53.12        55.35        57.4          40.09        12.412        45.25        47.99    70.14
fEREI Loan  Repayooft                                                   0.00           .00         0,04          0.1o         0,44         0 91          1.44         1.97         2.24          2,28      2.12
IIM  Loan Rapaymnt troo Aqancue                                          0.00         0.04         0.14          0.34         0.49          I.14         1.70         2.21         2.54          2,74      2.12
CAPITAL RECEIPTS                                                         177.03        94.10       104.34        114.24       125.12        131.39       131.74       127.52        124.19       125.51    130.34
lorroulnqs                                                             90.50          2.59         7.49        21.97         27.24        19.52         (41.53        9.57         3.14          0.30      0.00
lau leen                                                             90 50          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00      000
ProJect                                                               0.00          2.59         7.49        11.17         17.24        19.51        12.53          9.57         3.14          0.30      0.00
Sa 1. of Assets                                                         0.02          0.02         0.02          0.02         0.02         0.02          0.02         0.02         0.02          0.02      0.03
Transfers                                                              55.43         59.31        43.29        47.43         71.49        73.92         75.47        74.73        71.09          0.144    33.72
lasellee
Feeral Tan.,                                                       43.29        45.00        414.9         49.94        50.91         53.05        55.28        57.40         40.02        42.54    45.17
Other Fietral Transfers                                            12.30        12.11         13.35        13.91         14.50        15.11        15.74        12.40         17.09        17.11     19.54
Project Federal Grants                                                0.14          1.4i         3.05         4.64          t.0O         5.76          4.45         2.73         0.91          0.11      0.00
Other Capital Rectiptt                                                 30.39         32.19        33.54        34195         34.12        37.95         39.54        41.20        42.93         44.73    44.42
Petrolco                                                             19.39         20.21        21.04        21.94         22.9 1       23.92        24.13         25.87        24.95        28.09    29.27
CPN                                                                  22.19        21.415       12.14         22.615       13.1          13.73        14,32        14.92         25.54        24.19    24.87
Other                                                                 0.32         0.33          0.34         0.34          0.37         0.39         0.41          0.42         0.44          0.44      0.49
TOTAL RECEIPTS                                                          724.30        490.03       729.71        711.94       939.47       394.14        94u.94       9".42       1054.69       1119.14  1191.33
CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUSIDEFICIT                                          -53.01       -42.59       -51.24          6.09        44.92         94.79       123.93       197.44        224.02       262.30   302.,
CUIULATIVE CURRENT ACCOUNIT SURPLUS/IEFICIT                              -53.01      -115.59      -14t,4        -150.75      -1119.3       -17.14        111.49       299.33       523.35        795.45  2O0(.29
TOTAL SURPLUS/DEFICIT                                                  -120.03        -43.94       -33.12         24.21        44.75       113.42        149.07       211.97       251.11        291.27   313.10                               i
CUMULATIVE TOTAL SURPLUS/DEFICIT                                       -120.03       -143.19      -197.71       -171.50      -104.74          4.94       154.73       3141.49        19.90       911.07  1244.27
...............................................................................................................................................................................,...



IRAIIL
SALVADOR IETROFOLITAI   EVELOPIENT PROJECT
TabIl  31  IEIROPOLITM  DEVELOPI9N  FUNID IFEREH)
..................................
ProJected Funds FloN
lin USA thousands of January 1916)
1985         1986         1957          1980         1989         1990          1991         29t2          1993         19Y4         199I        TOTA
1.  PRORAI INVESTMENTS
I. Infrastructure
1.   Prilary Roids                                  0          290          2105         3930         7109          0314         6723         2609             0            0             0        31071
Co RunIcipal Sorvicet
1    Solid Iastu - Rlunictiol                      21          558          1641         2625         2963          2563         1715           615            0            0             0        12700
CONDER                       149         1445         2912          3012         3123          2944         1963          677             0            0             0        16126
2.    alsitenence                                   0             0          769         2492         3350          3741         3025          1174            0            0             0        14549
3. N rkete                                          0          599           140          238          1050          945          147             0            0            0             0         3822
P. Productive kctlvlties
1   Coeoerclal and
Industrial                                    0           322          596          935          1228          436            42            0            0             0            0         3559
... .....                             .....        ......    .....            ......    .....           ...... .. ... .. ... .. ... .. ... .. ..................
TOTAL PROGRAM INVESTWENTS                          169         3204          9763        13240        31824         13945        13614          5074            0             0            0        81834
II.  MIT SER1vCi 1/                                           0             1           39          159          438           909         1456          1973         2243         2281         2132         1IUI6
..................
111.  AIOINISTRATION 2/                                        0            61          182          254           331          379          461           491          491          491           491         3631
.................... 
.....        ---           ---          ---          .....        . . ...       ---            ---          ---          ---         ...
TOTAL IPLICATIONS                                          169         3273          8994       I2653         19593         20233        15530          7531         2734         2772          2673        97153
s9|"s8|9|s2||t||Xs                          ~~~~     ~~szzz  asss    ss  $8$2        gal          22a88        glass        onsts         Msons        ssn    *assa  Stl           ssses       Xs**
mamcii
1.  APPROPRIATIONIS - State of lahii                        100         1081          26t7         3254         4392          4390         3152          1175            0            0             0        20221
- Fed  govt.                            69          740          1939         2227         3000          3005         2158          904             0            0             0        13842
I1. IANK LOAN                                                 0         1393          4237         7759        11442         11550         8305         3095             0            0             0        47771
~~~. .... . . .....   .....        .....                                                 .... . . .._ ..... .   .... ............... ..
Subtotal                        169         3204          9763        13240        1N24          19945        13614          5074            0             0            0        11134
111. FEREN lDAI REPAYENITS 3)
..........    ........................... 
Salvador                                            0             1           34          186          595          1393         2500          3651         4446         4767          4692        22264
Caicacri                                            0             0            2            9            33           90           153          238          259          267           267         1317
Other Runicipalttimn                                0             0           20           47           t9           153         19            259          304          326           327         1729
CONDER                                              0             2           29           95           246          436          745           989         1156          1223         1213         6111
.. ....      ----          ---          -----        -----         -----        -----                      .....        -----.    ... ...   
Subtotal                          0             1           55          242           729         1636         2947          4147         5009         5359          5286        25311
IV. INTEREST ON CASH FLOW                                     0             0           -I           -5            -9           -9           *2            l6           49           94           346          230 0
.................... .................................  ...  _
TOTAL SOURCES                                              169         3205          9127        13479        19544         20572        16459         9236          5058         5454          5433       107425
82asw82   ttsss  8 sas 7*8g8*ssssassssss w*as::sa 2ssasseso Is  4*ssltS 200ws 2St8808                                             wzS 8l3ws82282tE2:::::":loasl|2:228sll88,lat:::_::":sa"Z 
TOTAL SURPLUSIDEFICIT                                          0           -68         -167         -175           -49          339          929          1699         2323         2691          2760        10272               N
CURULATIVE SURPLUSIDEFICIT                                      0          -60         -235         -410          -459         -120           009         2508         4931          7512        10272
1/191  for 12 years plus 3 years grace on lank loan.
2/1 21 of portfolio In 1936 reducing to 0.61 by 1990.
3/ 1 61 for 15 years plus 3 years grace for infrastructure and 7 years pius 3 years grace for equiplent,



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 15 of 21
BRAZIL
SALYADOR NETROPOLITAN DEYELOPHENT PROJECT
Table 4i RUICIPAL RUIGETS - SALVADOR
Per Capita Rvnuun and Expuditures
(in USS of January 1986)
1979     1910     1911      1992     1993      1994
1.  CURRENT REVENUES                                                 19.76    25.52    28.62    34.00    30.11    22.97
1.1.  IPTU                                                        2.66     3.65      4.06     4.26      2.83     2.73
1.2.  159                                                         4.94     5.92      5.93     6.10      4.75     4.45
1.3.  OTHER TAXES AND USER CHARGES                                1.45     2.19      1.86     2.09      1.17     0.86
1.3.1.  USER CHARGES                                       0.19      0.25     0.16      0.24     0.06      0.07
1.3.2.  BETTERMENT LEVIES                                  0.01      0.00     0.00       .00     0.00      0.00
1.3.3.  OTHERS                                              1.27     1.94      1.70     1.95     1.10      0.80
1.4.  CURRENT TRANSFERS                                           8.99    11.47    14.80    14.61    14.65    14.24
1.4.1.  F.P.N.                                              1.32     1.76     3.q9      3.93     3.58      3.19
1.4.2.  I.C.R.                                              6.50     9.32    10.06      9.47     9.27    10.33
1.4.3.  OTHERS                                              1.09     0.39     0.84      1.21     1.90      0.72
1.5.  OTHER CURRENT REVENUES                                      1.72     2.29      1.97     6.95      6.71     0.69
2.  CAPITAL RECEIPTF                                                  5.33      9.20    14.16    13.47    11.34       9.95
2.1.  BORROWINGS                                                  2.97      3.38    11.62    11.03      6.34     0.06
2.2.  CAPITAL TRANSFERS                                           2.15      2.26     0.25      0.91     2.95      9.02
2.2.1.  F.P.M.                                              1.37     1.71     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2.2.2.  I.C.R.                                              0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2.2.2.  OTHERS                                              0.79     0.56     0.25      0.81      2.95     9.02
2.3.  OTHER CAPITAL RECEIPTS                                      0.21     3.55      2.30     1.63      2.05     0.87
TOTAL RECEIPTS                                                       25.09    34.71    42.79    47.47    41.45    32.92
3.  CURRENT EXPENDITURES                                             19.96    29.81    29.15    30.25    30.00    24.68
3.1.  ADMIN.  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                          10.61    15.68    15.35    18.19    12.96    11.39
3.2.  DOEBT SERVICIN$                                             1.25     2.01      2.41     3.66      5.68     5.51
3.3.  OTHER CURRENT EXPENDITURES                                  7.10    11.12    10.39      8.39    11.36      7.79
4.  CAPITAL OUTLAYS                                                   6.99     9.61    12.20    19.79    10.31        9.20
4.1.  INVESTMENTS                                                 3.16     7.40      9.11    15.76      9.50     6.33
4.2.  OTHER CAPITAL OUTLAYS                                       3.84     2.21      3.17     4.03      1.91     2.99
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                                   25.95    38.42    40.43    50.04    40.30    33.89



- 56 -
jtRiS= 4
Page 16 of 21
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 5: MUNICIPALITY OF SALVADOR
Impact of Project and Financial Reforms
(US$ million of January 1986)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Without Project - Baseline
Surplus (existing operationsa/)  0.45   3.29   5.12   8.30  11.26  13.86
Direct Impact of Project
Investments                       0.09  -0.67  -1.69  -3.36  -5.61  -8.21
Revised surplus/deficit             0.54   2.62   3.43   4.94   5.65   5.65
Revenue Reforms:
Property tax (IPTU)               0.68   2.89   3.76   3.92   4.08   4.24
Service Tax (ISS)                 0.65   1.31   1.96   2.04   2.12   2.21
Solid Waste Collection Charge
(ind. & comm. properties)         0.11   0.29   0.62   1.12   1.58   1.98
Revised surplus/deficit             1.98   7.11   9.77  12.02  13.43  14.08
a/ Assumes no capital outlays or borrowings outside the project.



- 57 -
AWm 4
P8go rT of 21
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 6: MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MONITORING INDICATORS
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Municipality of Salvador
Debt Service to Current
Expenditures not to Exceed           19%    16%    15%    15%    15%    15%
Impact of Revenue Reforms
Additional Annual Revenues US$
millions equivalent
Property tax (IPTU)               0.6    2.9    3.7    3.9    4.1    4.2
Service tax (ISS)                 0.6    1.3    1.9    2.0    2.1    2.2
Solid Waste Collection Charge   0.1    0.3    0.6    1.1    1.6    1.9
Municipality of Camafari
Debt Service to Current
Expenditures not to Exceed           25%    24%    23%    22%    22%    15%
Current Revenues/Current
Expenditures greater than             1      1       1      1              1
Total Receipts/Total
Expenditures greater than             1      1       1      1       1      1



INAZIL
SALVADOR ETR0OLiiiA iKVELOPIENT PROJECT
Table 7i   iNPACT OF POJECT ON lUlICIPAL PFIMXEi - SMALVA
ProJIct Riulpts and Expenditures
itn US$ thousands of January 1914)
1985          1906          1907         1t9            1it"         1990          1991           q92          1993          1994          199
1. CAPIIM. 0U1LA}S
3I  Infrastructuren   Prlary Roads                               0           210          2105          3930          709           8314          4723         2N                0             0             0
C. Nunici gal lavrulce
1.   SolId Waste   Equl pnt                                    0          330          IO0           15t0         ll1           1903          1322           491             0             0             0
-C vii Warks                              21          1I5            417           t9           t92           494           335           123             0             0             0
2.    alintunence    Equipment                                 0             0           173         1417          2559          2992          2420           939              0            0             0
C vi  llrks                             0             0           437           574           121             0             0             0             0             0             0
3.   NIrkets                                                   0            61          272            199          843           902           147             0             0             0             0
D. Productive Activities
1.   Industrial I Comurcall                                   0           322           59t           i53           132           351            42             0             0             0             0
SU, TOTAL                                                     21          1144         5013          9210         14017         1456         10939          4162             0             0             0
11  MIT SERVICING                                                 0             1            34          ll            595          1393         2500          3451          4444          4747          4492
Ili. O1ERATION I NAINTEANACE
3. InfrAstructurgi Prlary Roads                                 0             0            42           121           23            429           54            t1l           414          Hlt          I44
C. NunIcitpl ServIces
1.   Solid Vaste                                               0          427           911          1175          3121          4032          4489          4932          4932          4932          4932
2.   Naintenenen                                               0             0             9            31            75          117           151           144           144          1I4            164
3.   Markets                                                                 5            29            U            120           193          211           211           211           211           211
D. Productive Activities
1.   Industrial i Ce nrciIl                                    0             4            17           34            49            54            57            57            57            57            57
SUI TOTIL                                                      0           439          1001         2112         3521a          433           5472          5S30          5910          5930          5910
TOTAL PROJECT EIPENDITURES                                       21          1404          4055         11509        1240          21094         19160         13793         10427        10747         10473
FIMAIED IYii 
1. sALEs I CONNECTIONS
D. Industrial I Cneearcial Sites                               0            90           309          t01           151            784          443           304            152            0             0
It. RENTS
C, Markets                                                     0            14            34           139          357           591           429           429           429           429           429
Ill. TAXES
1. ICI                                                         0            10            42           72            152          229           241           241           241           241           241
C. Markets                                                  0             5            24            42           103           179           190           190           190           190           190
0. Industrial I Coemercial Sites                            0             5            1            30            44            50            51            51            51            51            51
2. 155
C. Narkets                                                  0              I            3             5            12            20            22            22            22            22            22
3. IPTU                                                        0             I            10            30            92           137          149           112           1I:          1lj            I
A. Up ridn                                                  0             0             0             3            33            41            42             4 4t                       U             50
3. Fr0lu        d R                                                        I           10            21            59            94           12t           13S           131           133           13
IV. REDUCTIONS IN INFRA. NAINTENANCE
C.2 NlnteR ence                                             0             0            79           335           47l          1062          1372          1493          1493          1493          1493
V. REVENUE RUFOIHI
A. Solid WIste Ussr Charge                                  0           113           294           423          1119          1593          19N0          2041          2144          2234          2325
3. 11S  learoveuents                                        0           454          1308          1941          2042          2125          2213          2303          2391          2494          2591
C. Pr  erti Tas lIeroveeents                                0           475          2191          3761          3915          4076          4243          4417          4591          4736          4953
VI. DORRONINS61 TRANSFERS                                        21          11445         5013          9210         14017         14953         10919          4142             0             0             0
TOTAL PROJECT RECEIPTS                                           21          2725         10034         1t734         23235         25446        22500          15613        1ll4l         12094          12476
................................................................................. .. .. .. ......................................................................................................................
PROJECT SURPLUS/DEFICIT                                           0          1120          3979          5227          4995          4382          3340          2020          1434          1339          1106
CUMULATIVE PROJECT SURPLUS                                        0          1120          5099         10324         15321         19703         23043         25043        24499         27937         29tl2
.................... ...................................................... ....... .......... ..................................................................................................... 
C,



BRAI IL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8: INPACT OF PROJECT ON MUNICIPAL FINANCES - SALVADOR
.......     .....................................
Total Receipte and Exaenditures
i'n US7 thausands of January 19861
19ES      1986      1987      I9bu      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995
:~~~~~.. za :z1: ::: :E *           2 2S::: *l *S SS:S:: 2s2   2 i s *s::::X   asut2:::::::                                 22S88sstss::::::tssa23    88:SUgsUlaa:s222ssXlsss22-2S:
1   CURRENT REVENUES                                  43121     47385    53559    58756    6334q    68191    72998    77762    02893    81439    94441
1.1.  IpU                                         5016      5997      8336       9449      9898     10344    10794    11243    11699    12173    12666
1.1.1.  laseline                             5016      5221      5435      5650      5890      6132      6383      6645       6917      7201      7496
1.I.2   Direct Project 1PTU  111.3.             0         1        10        30        92        137       149       182       184       lob       111
1.1S3.   Fliscal Rforms IPTU   YV.              0       675      2891      3761      3915      4076      4243       44117     4598      4786      413
1.2.  155                                         8167      9156    10160       11175    11645      12130    12627      13144    13682      14242    14825
1.2.I.   Bialine                             8167      8501      0850      9213      9591      9984    10393    lO1l9        11263     11725     12205
1.2 2   Project ISS             1112.          0         1         3         5         12        20        22        22        22        21        22
1 2.2.  Fiscal ReAora  ISS        V.I.          0       654      1308      1961      2042      2125      2213       2303      2398      2496      2591
1.3.  OTHER TAIES AND USER CHARGES                1766      2172       2713      3452      4470      5522      4525      7295      8178      9192    10359
1. 3.1.  laselin                             1766      2049      2377      2757      3198      3710      4304       4993      5791      67118     7793
1  3 2   Direct Project ICI    1111.            0        10        42        72       152       229        241       241       241       241       241
1.3.3,  Solid Iaste Churgcs    Y.A.             0       113       294       623      1119       1583      1980      2061      2146      2234      2325
l.A,  TRANSFERS                                26874     28769    30805    32992    35342    37867    405E1           43499    46617    50010    53638
1.4.1.   F.P.M.                            584q       6089      6339      659q      6869      7151      7444       7749     8067       8398      8742
:4.:.  I.C.M,                              19678     21252    22952    24788       26171     28913    31226    33724    36422    39336    42483
.4.3.  OTHER TRANSFERS                      1348      1428      1514      1605      1701      1803      1911       2026      2148      2277      2413
I.5.  OTHEi CURRENT REVENUES                      1298       1391      1545      1683      1995      2328      2470      2580      2697       2822      2953
1.5.1. 1 aseline                             1298      1376      1458      1546      1638      1737      1841       1951      204a      2192      2324
1.5,2.  Project Rents               II.         0        16        86       131       357       59?        629       629       629       629       629
2.  CAPITAL RECEIPTS                                  13714      8577    12942    17744    23126    24239    20581    13782             9950     10095    10509
2.1.  BORROWINGS                                  6675        548      2545      5608      8550      9064      6703      2539          0         0         0
2.1.1.  Baseline                             6662         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
2.12   Project                      VI.        13       548      2545      5608      0550      9064       6703      2539         0         0         0
2.2,  TRAiSFERS                                   5449       6283      8364      9741     11856    12446    11210        8831       7504      7812       1132
2.2.1. Maseline                              5441      5664      5896      6138      6390       6652      6924      7208      7504      7812      1132
2,2 2  Project                                  8       618      2468      3602      5467       5795      4286      1623         0         0          0
2.3.  OTHER CAP ITAL RECEIPTS                      1591      1746      2033      2396      2719      2729      2668      24??       2346      2284      2378
2 3.1.  Baseline                             1591      1656      1724      1795       1868      1945      2025      2108      2194      2284      2378
2.312.  Project                      1.         0        90       309       60?       851        784       643       304       152         0          0
TOTAL RECEIPTS                                        56935    55962    66501    76500    8b474    92430    93579    91544    92743    98535   104951
1.  CURRENT E[PENDITURES                              46833    47315    48657       51563    54233    57689    61794    64644    6847            71170    74114
3.1.  ADMIN., OPERATION A#D MAINTENANCE          21304    23021    24945    27486    30524    33342    35892    38014    39936    41973    44133
3.1.1. 1  aseline                           21304    22582    23937       25373    26896    28509        30220    32033    33955    35993    38152
3.1 2   Oper.   Maintenance        Ill.         0       439      1008      2112      36218      433       5672      5980      58        5980 5990
.2  OEit SERYICINS                             11050      9018       7597      7075      5772      5423      5937      5567      4322       6454      5249
3.2.1.  Baseline                            11050      9018      7562      6888      5176       4030      343B      1914      1175      167       557
3.2 2   Projct                      11.         0         1        34        186      595       1393      2500      3451      4446      4767      4692
3.3.  OTHER CURRENIT EIPENDITURES                14479     15276    14116    17002    17937         18924    19965      210t3    22221    23443    24733
4,  CAPITAL OUTLAYS                                   11963      6663    10735    15167    20218    21314          17708     1:4'       7282      7581      7892
I.:.  INVESTMENTS                                 4683       1166      5013      9210    14017    14859    10989          t162         0         0         0
4,1.1.  Baselin.                             6662         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0
4,1.2.  Project                      1.        21      1166      5013      9210    14017    14858        10989      4162         0          0         0
4.3.  OTHER CAPITAL OUTLAYS                       5280       5497      5722      5957      6201      t455      6720      6995       7282      756,      7891
TOTAL EIPENDITURES                                    58796    53978    59392    46730        74451      79002    79502    75801       75761    '9451    8200t
CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS/DEFICIT                       -312         71      4902      7193      9116    10502    112U.    13118         14415    16569    20327
CUMULATIVE CURREN' ACCOUNT SURPLUS/DEFIC:?            -3712    -3642        1260     8453    17569    28071        39275    52394    66808    83377   103704
TOTAL SURPLUS/DFrIC'                                 -1961      1984      7109      9770    12023       13428     1407'     15743     16982     19084    2294         
CUMULATIVE TOTAL SURPLUSIDEFICIT                      -1961        23      7132     16902     28926    42353    56430    72173    89155   108239   131184



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 20 of 21
NITES TO TA3EE 8
Baseline I/
Grwth  Rate                                    Assuptions
1. Current Revenmes
1.1 Property Tax (IPTU)                 4.1%      1984 base, growing at rate of population
1.2 Service Tax (ISS)                   4.1%      1984 base, growuig at rate of populatiun
1.3 Other Taxes and User Charges       16.0%      1984 base, average growth rate 1979 to 1982
1.4 Transfers
1.4.1 Federal Participation
Funds (FPM)                   4.1%      1984 base, graong at rate of population
1.4.2 Value Added Tax (IC)         7.5%      1984 base, expected eoxi. growth of 5% + 2.5%
due to increased tax rate
1.4.3 Other Transfers               6.0%      1984 base, average grwth rate 1979 to 1982
1.5 Other Current Receipts              6.0Z      1984 base, average growth rate 1979 to 1981
2. Capital Receipts
2.1 Borrowings                                    budgeted 1985, 1986 - 1995 zero
2.2 Capital Transfers                   4.1%      1985 base, grawirg at rate of population
2.3 Other Capital Receipts              4.1%      1984 base, growing rate of population
3. Current Expenditures
3.1 Adndn. Operation and Maintenance     6.0%      1984 base, axerage grcwth rate 1979 to 1984
3.2 Debt Service 2/                               data from municipality
3.3 Other Current Expenditures          5.5%      1984 base, average growth rate 1979 to 1984
4. Capital Outlays
4.1 Investnents                                   budgeted 1985, then zero
4.3 Other Capital Outlays               4.1%      1984 base, growirg at rate of population
Project inpact elements (e.g., II.3) refer to the components of project receipts and expenditures
of Table 14. Although the naintenance component of the project could reduce total naintenance
expenditures, it is assumed that total zelnteance expenditures wxuld increase at historical levels,
with the project's naLitenance component providing for better naintenance coverage.
1/  Baseline estimates are for existing operations, assuming no capital outlays or borrodngs
outside the project. An ainnual surplus in Table 8 wculd be available for additional capital
outlays.
2/ Includes interest and repaynet of principal.



- 61 -
ANIRY 4
Page 21 of 21
BRAZIL
SALYADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9: IMPACT DF PROJECT ON MUNICIPAL FINANCES - SALVADOR
Financial Balance Ratios
1985     19B9     1987     1988      1999     1990     1991     1992      I993     1994     1995
CURRENT REVENUES i TOTAL REVENUES            0.76     0.95     0.91     0.77      0.73     0.74     0.71     ^.P5      0.89     0.90     0.90
TRANSFERS I TOTAL REVENUES                   0.57     0.62     0.55      0.51     0.49     0.49     0.51     0.55      0.58     0.59     0.59
TOTAL REVENUES / TOTAL EXPENDITURES          0.97     1.04     1.12      1.15     1.l6     1.17     1.19      1.21     1.22     1.24     1.28
CURRENT REVENUES I CURRENT EXPENDITURES      0.92     1.00     1.1D      1.14     1.17     1.19     1.18      1.20     1.21     1.23     1.27
DEBT SERVICE / TOTAL REVENUES                0.19     0.16     :.l      0.09      0.07     0.06     0.06     0.06      0.07     0.07     0.05
DEBT SERVICE I CURRENT EXPENDITURES          0.24     0.19     *.:6      0.14     ).LI     0.09     0.10     0.09      O.09     0.09     0.07
INVESTMENT / TOTAL REVENUES                  0.12     0.02     0.0B     0.12     0.16      0.16     0.12     0.05     0.00      0.00     0.00
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS I TOTAL REVENUES        037      0.41     0.39      0.36     0.;5     0.36     0.39     0.42      0.43     0.43     0.42
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS I CURRENT REVENUES      0.49     0.49     0.47      0.47     0.48     0.49     0.49     0.49      0.40     0.47     0.47
--- --- --- --- -- --- ---  --- -- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --  ---   -- --- -   --- --- --- -- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 5: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.    Selected  Reports  and  Studies  on  the  Sector  and  the  Salvador
Metropolitan Region
RMS 1985-2000, Estrategia de Desenvolvimento da Regiao Metropolitana de
Salvador. SEPLANTEC/CONDER, 1985; 98 p.
Plano Metropolitano de Desenvolvimento 1982.   SEPLANTEC/CONDER, 1982.
SEPLANTEC/CONDER, 1982; 313 p.
Regiao Metroplitana de Salvador, Sistema de Informacoes Metropolitanas,
Summario de Informacoes No. 1.  SEPLANTEC/CONDER, 1984; 553 p.
Indicadores Sociais do Nordeste (1970-80) MINTER/SUDENE, 1983; 603 p.
Orcamento  Analitico  do  Poder  Exec-utivo,  Estado  da  Bahia,  1985.
SEPLANTEC, 1985; 197 p.
1983-1987, Programa de Acao Governamental para a Bahia, 1983; 92 p.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related sper!ifically to the Project
Projeto Metropolitano Tomo II - Documento Basico.   SEPLANTEC/CONDER,
June 1985; 110 p.
Projeto Metropolitano Tomo II - Documento Basico.   SEPLANTEC/CONDER,
December 1984.
Proposta Orramentaria 1985, Prefeitura Municipal do Salvador, 1984;
OrSamento Programa 1985, Orcamento Pluriannal de Investimentois Trieno
85/87. Prefeitura Municipal de Camaqari, September 1984.
DINURB, Distrito Industrial Urbano do Municipio do Salvador, Plano
Director.   Prefeitura Municipal do Salvador/Secretaria da Industria e
Comercio do Estado da Bahia, 1983; 153 p.
Regulamento do Fundo Especial de Equipamento da Regiao Metropolitana de
Salvador FEREM. CONDER, 1978; 8 p.
A Economia da Regiao Metropolitana de Salvador, Roy Gilbert, July 1984;
36 p.



3845'                                          3B 'IU
r,, S,vfo Arwgro                                               t. M.o  dr
I f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      '
)' ~~~~~~~~~ ~                         ~ ~~~~~~~ "-'""CAM 
-120A45
SIJ
nxr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
VALE DO  -4
CAMURUGIPE
13'00'
To NazaJ'
{i''/1               O       |        10               20
KILOMETERS
I,                    - -  -3,4-                          33 .
;~ ~~~~,.ra. -v ... n-__ __n *_____
r                    -  -8 4S__ _._=o. i__               39B03O



IBRO 19298R
I    VI NIZUti A
3BI5 1                                                            3r00 Ao  GUYANA SURINAME
COLOMItiA          , t    G(FRENCH GUIANA
12'30 '
)      117   /  \    BRAZIL
/  -  -.        !       tpiRU                      BAHIA g
AppCL
ro M.t. d.                                                                                               BOlIVIA            IiRASItIAS          A,uo 
Sa  Ioa                                                                                               A                                         j  N Z  a
-.~~~~~~~~~~~~7.                                                                              f \   //
A                  \       I          PARAGUAG
do Ia.              K  ~~~~~~~__    '4R. de Jimone
I /f N IMNA
R * INF RASTRUCTURDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
< *I.~CMCR                                                                           SALVADO ORl METFTROPOLR T4ITAN
*                                                                                                                                                    12* MARKE TS
PRJC COMPtR NtNTSIT
,TJ4s                                                               C]   IND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE SRING  IT
UPGRADING OFiSLOWINCOME AREAS
BASIC SANITATION IMPROVEMENT AREAS
I,IIIIINFRAS7RuCTURE-NEW PRIMARY ROADS
MUNICIPAL SERVICES
SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATIONS
A     SOLID WASTE LANDIFILL SITFS
P MARKETS
- RODUCVE AC TIVIMI
,TAC~~~~~~~~~~~~~?                                             U~~~~~~~  COMMERCIAL SITE
-:r.  [1   INDUSTRIAL SITE
__Jl TEC.-,NICAL ASSSANCE FOR HISTORIC CENTER
ELSTILNQ FE&ATUfA
URtAN  ARBAS
EXISTING
:     EPROJECTED EXPANSION 11915 I 000
INDUSTRIAL .RE AS
-iEX'S'ING
PROJECTED) EXPANSIOjN 1985 2800D1
OPEN  AREAS                                       1398
PRIMARY ROADS
E ICISTING
-- PROPOSED01985 700)
LIMIT Or SALVADOR METROPOLITAN REGION
AMUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
9 NATIONAL CAPITAL
- --STATE BOUNDARY
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
3r15'                                                               38'000
JANUARY 1986






