Dowses of
The World Bank
FOR omCaLL USE ONLY
I V.  .? G  97f-/ v3
Report No. P-4271-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$55 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 1, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985                     February 28, 1986
Currency Unit - Cruzado (Cr6)
US$1 - Cr$6,200                   US$1 - CzS13.87
CrS1 - US$.000161                 CZr1 - USS.072464
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNB            -   Banco do Nordeste   -
(Northeast Development Bank)
BNDES           -   Banco Nacional de Desenvolviuento Economico e Social
(Na tional Bank of Economic and Social Development)
BNH            -   Banco Nacional da Habitacao
(National Housing Bank)
CIA             -   Centro Industrial de Aratu
(Aratu Industrial Center)
CNDU            -   Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Urban Development Council)
CONDER          -   Companhia de Desenvolvimento da Regiso Metropolitana
(Salvador Metropolitan Development Agency)
COPEC           -   Complexo Petroquimico de Camacari
(Camacari Petro-Cbeoical Complex)
DESENBANCO      -   Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado da Bahia
(Bahia State Development Bank)
EMBASA          -   Eipresa Bahlana de Aguas e Saneamento
(Bahia State Water Company)
FEREZ           -   Fondo Especial de Equipamento da Regifo Metropolitana
de Salvador
(Salvador Metropolitan Development Fund)
HAHESA          -   Habitacao e Melhoramento, S.A.
(Babia State Housing Improvement Company)
ICM            -   Imposto sobre a Circulacao de Mercadoria
(Value Added Sales Tax)
IPTU           -   Imposto Predial e Territorlal Urbano
(Urban Property Tax)
ISS            -   Imposto Sobre Servicos
(Services Tax)
MDU             -   Ministerio de Desenvolvicento Urbano e Meio AmbIente
(Ministry of Urban Development and the Environment)
ORTN           -   Obrigacoes Reajuatavets do Tesouro Nacional
(Readjustable National Treasury Bond)
SDU             -   Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(Secretariat of Urban Development of MDU)
SEPLAN         -   Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republics
(Presidentlal Planning Secretariat)
SEPLANTEC      -   Secretaria de Planejamento, Ciencia e Tecnologia do
Estado da Bahia
(Secretariat of Planning. Science and Technology of the
State of Bahia)
SUDENE          -   Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Northeast Development Superintendency)
URBIS           -   Companhia de Urbanizacao
(Bahia State Housing and Urban Development Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Project Executing
Agency:           Planning Secretariat of the State of Bahia (SEPLANTEC)
Salvador Metropolitan Development Agency (CONDER)
Ministry of Urban Development and the Environment
(MDU).
Amount:             US$55 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace,
with interest at the Bankts standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries:      The project would mainly benefit the nine municipali-
ties comprising the Salvador Metropolitan Region (SNR)
which has 2.0 million people. About 65% of the popula-
tion falls below the poverty line.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would make US$500,000 available to its
Ministry of Urban Development and the Environment for
management studies. It would also make available
US$54.5 million to the State of Bahia on the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan. The State of Bahia
would assume the foreign exchange risk. It would lend
US$15 million to the Salvador Metropolitan Development
Fund (FEREM) on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan. The remaining US$39.5 million would be made
available to FEREM on a grant basis. FEREH would
onlend US$39.4 million to the SMR municipalities and
US$8.4 million to CONDER for 10-18 years including up
to three years of grace at 6% interest. The remaining
US$6.7 million would be made available to CONDER as
grants to finance technical assistance.
Project
Description:      The proposed project would provide a line of credit
(subloans) to the municipalities of the Salvador
Metropolitan Region (SMR) to finance priority
investments in its Development Plan. Previously,
FEREM financing to the municipalities was provided on a
grant basis. It would also provide technical
assistance to the Borrower's MDU to help develop
management programs for other metropolitan areas and to
CONDER to strengthen management of the SMR.. The
This document has a escted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the perfonnrace
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclksed wihout World lank authoriatn.



- il -
subloans would be complemented by loans from the Banco
Nacional da Rabitacao (BNH) and by grant funding from
the Federal Government and the State of Bahia. The
subloans would finance the following investments:
upgrading of low-income communities (site development,
drainage, pre-fabricated staircases, community
facilities and basic sanitation); infrastructure
(access roads between industrial and residential
areas); municipal services (solid waste collection and
disposal facilities, a maintenance program including
depots and equipment for drainage and roads, and 11
markets for perishable goods); productive activities
(site preparation, construction, and equipment). FEREM
would provide grant financing for: community training
in basic maintenance (to complement investment in
upgrading); training in production techniques and
management (to complement investment in productive
activities); and institutional development (fiscal and
financial management, updating cadastres, tax
collection and enforcement, historic preservation and
metropolitan planning, policies and management). The
project would focus on strengthening the capabilities
of the SMR to plan, finance and execute priority
projects on the basis of criteria acceptable to the
Bank. It would Improve the management of municipal
finances by strengthening revenue generating mechanisms
including cost recovery. It would also introduce the
use of subloans to finance municipal services in
Brazil's Northeast, an area that has traditionally
relied on federal and state grants.
Risks:              Timely execution of the project will depend upon the
collaboration and coordination of the various entities
participating in the project: MDU, CONDER, BNH,
the municipalities and State agencies. This
risk is considered to be small in view of the Bank's
experience with these entities in other projects and
will be further mitigated by the strengthening of
municipal management and CONDER under the project.
The positive impact of the project on municipal
finances would be reduced if fiscal reforms were not
implemented or if subloans from the FEREM were not paid
in a timely way. This risk is offset by the State's
commitment to improve municipal finances and by the
withholding of municipal tax revenues by the State as
collateral.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                            -U S $  millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Upgrading                                        22.0      9.6       31.6
Infrastructure                                   12.0      8.4       20.4
Municipal Services                               18.5     15.0       33.5
Productive Activities                             3.7      1.5        5.2
Institutional Development                         6.2      2.2        8.4
Technical Assistance                              0.3      0.2        0.5
Management of Metropolitan Areas                  0.4      0.2        0.6
Administration                                    1.5      0.5        2.0
Base Cost                                        64.6     37.6      102.2
Physical Contingencies                          8.5      4.8       13.3
Price Contingencies                            22.3     13.2       35.5
Contingencies                                    30.8     18.0       48.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               95.4     55.6      151.0
Financing Plan:
Bank                                        -        55.0      55.0
Federal Government                         29.8       0.2      30.0
State of Bahia                             65.6       0.4      66.0
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Annual          4.41/  3.0   5.7   7.7   8.7   8.7   7.7   5.7   3.0   0.4
Cumulative     4.4    7.4  13.1  20.8  29.5  38.3  45.9  51.6  54.6  55.0
Rate of Return:  16Z
I/ Including initial deposit of US$3.0 million into the Special Account.



INTRtNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$55 MILLION
TO THE FEDERAIIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        1 submit tVe- following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to tne Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$55
million to help finance the Salvador Metropolitan Development Project in
the State of Bahia. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3
years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years. This
completed a major stage of the return to fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and state representatives throughout Brazil.
In this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Dr.Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government. On his death in April 1985, Vice-President Jose Sarney became
President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives stated by
Dr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform,
economic growth and inflation control, with a strong social and
anti-poverty orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89,
presented to Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives
including the gradual recovery of real wages and, among Government
programs, a concentration on improving health, nutrition and housing for
low-income Brazilians. Reform of the public sector is a strategic
objective. The Government intends to concentrate more on "traditional'
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic
infrastructure, leaving directly productive activities increasingly for
private sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2% p.a., and a
more rapid increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an essential
condition a return to GDP growth of at least 6% a year. Three major
1/ Parts I and II of this report are similar to that of the President's
Report for the Agricultural Extension II Project (Report No. P-4266-BR,
dated March 26, 1986).



stabilization aims are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public
sector deficit, renegotiation of the external debt, and the control of
inflation.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11  average annual growth in real
GDP in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a
significant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth
through policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for
industrial and agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import
barriers; investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for
imported oil; the expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign
borrowing.  Between 1975 and 2980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more
than doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5 billion, with total
obligations of approximately US$70 billion, including short-term debt. The
efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974 created strong
internal pressures and increased inflation. The economy remained
vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases in oil prices
occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates increased, the
current account deficit more than doubled to US$12.4 billion. Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified
adjustment program. In February 1983, the IMF pledged financial assistance
of the order of US$5.4 billion through the Extended Fund Facility and
compensatory financing for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, for the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and
the commitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included
a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and
tight monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21X and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit
was reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.



- 3 -
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 2112 in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,
very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP
fell by 3.2Z in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the
industrial and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12%
during 1981-83 and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers. Much of the social progress made in the 1970s-when all income
groups gained from economic growth and the expansion of education, health,
housing and urban and rural development programs-was undermined by the
recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984.  Balance-of-payments performance was
again highly positive, aided by exchange rate changes which fully accounted
for domestic inflation and by the strong growth of the US economy. An
unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was generated. Although
total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much of this surplus
resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US dollars, total
exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the comparable increase for
industrial exports was 37%, Reflecting the favorable trade performance,
and substantial net capital inflows, Brazil's international reserve
position also improved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7
billion. Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5Z in real terms, or over 2% per capita. The increase in
manufacturing exports helped industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remained
sm-all. Overall expansion was still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, high inflation (224%), and real interest rates of 30-40%.
10.       In 1985, GDP growth accelerated and is estimated to have reached
8.3% in real terms for the year as a whole.  The recovery was led by
industry, which expanded by an estimated 9.0%, though investment spending
remained low. Industrial employment increased by at least 6%. Open
unemployment declined significantly in 1985, in the major urban centers.
Agriculture expanded by an estimated 8.8%, contributing both to the balance
of payments and to domestic supply. Temporary price restraints imposed by
the new Government resulted in a reduction in price increases from nearly
12Z a month in the first quarter of 1985 to 7.6% in the second. Subsequent
increases, however, brought the 1985 annual rate back to 235%,
significantly above the 1984 figure. Externally, the trade surplus
amounted to over US$12.4 billion, the current account deficit was about
0.5% of GDP, and gross international reserves remained at a level
equivalent to about 8 months of imports.
11.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from about 1.6% of GDP in 1984
to an estimated 3.3% in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized
industrial sector, including partial quarterly adjustments of wages,
resulted, at least temporarily, in real wage gains of 8-10% for these



-4-
industries, and Federal Government salaries were also increased to
compensate for large previous declines. Profits were high in many private
sector activities. Monetary policy from August 1985 was accommodating; in
fact, some of the expansion in the monetary aggregates that occurred was
aimed at reducing interest rates.  With a sharp reduction in foreign
financing, the growing public debt was financed domestically at high,
though later declining, real interest rates. The real rate on Government
securities declined from 21% in August to 15% by the end of the year. For
the year, as a whole, the monetary aggregates increased faster than the
235% inflation: 251% for the monetary base, 312% for Ml, and 262% for M3.
12.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate
of inflation increased late in the year because of the need to raise public
sector and other regulated prices that had been held down in previous
months and through anticipation of the effects of a drought in the South
which damaged food crops and coffee. Inflation reached monthly rates of
11% in November and 13% in December, followed by rates of 16% and over 14Z
in January and February of 1986, respectively. In late 1985, the
Government had prepared a program to reduce inflation gradually which was
centered around the reduction of the fiscal deficit to 0.5% of GDP. Taxes
were increased and there were cuts in Federal Government and state
enterprise expenditure. Budgetary control was strengthened in January 1986
by the unification of the fiscal and monetary budgets, transferring to the
Treasury the responsibility for programs previously financed by the Central
Bank and Bank of Brazil; the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a
second monetary authority; and the establishment of a National Treasury
Secretariat to centralize budget disbursements. A program for
restructuring and selective privatization of state enterprises was
initiated.   Alarmed by the spurt in inflation in December and January, the
Government tightened consumer credit and announced a plan to increase food
imports to offset the drought-related increase in agricultural prices. At
the same time, a shock-treatment approach to stopping inflation was being
prepared.
Economic Outlook
13.      On February 28, the Government initiated its new program for
stabilization and currency reform. Until then, the inflation outlook for
1986 was threatening. There were a number of inflationary factors needing
to be dealt with, including the disappearance of excess capacity in a
number of industries, the pressures to raise wages to pre-recession levels
and to protect workers from higher future inflation, the poor agricultural
harvest, and the need to raise some public sector tariffs and prices.
Moreover, there was a growing awareness that maintaining inflation at
200-250% a year, the rate of the prior three years, was likely to be very
difficult over the medium term. The economy was reacting very quickly to
new, negative shocks, and the indexation system made it hard to bring
inflation down, once the shocks were reflected in the price index. In
addition, the small size of the monetary base relative to GDP (about 2%)
and the high liquidity of Government bonds complicated the use of monetary
policy to reduce aggregate demand.



-5-
14.       The new program seeks both to eliminate the impact of past,
indexed inflation and to change future inflation expectations.  It features
a currency reform, with the new cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros;
temporary price fixing for all goods and services; an exchange rate set at
Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period to be determined; wage adjustments to
their average real value over the previous 6 months, with annual
adjustments thereafter, at least partly indexed to inflation; the freezing
for one year of rent and mortgage payments; prohibition of indexation of
financial contracts for periods of less than a year, except for personal
savings accounts; the conversion of nominal cruzeiro contracts to
appropriate cruzado values; the conversion of indexed Government bonds to
cruzados at the parity existing on February 28, without any adjustment, at
least for one year, in the nominal value of the new bonds; and a number of
measures intended to liberalize the financial system. These sweeping
financial reforms were accompanied by plans to eliminate the fiscal deficit
and to use monetary policy to stabilize and, if possible, reduce real
interest rates. A limited unemployment insurance program was introduced.
Initial political and public reactions were highly positive.
15.       Preliminary assessments suggest that the reforms will provide
increased stability and encourage productive private sector investment,
although there are risks inherent in the reforms, including problems of
adjustment for the financial sector. The transition period could be marked
by a temporary reduction in growth, which will also be reduced in 1986 by
low or negative growth in the agriculture sector following the recent
drought. The exchange rate remains competitive - previous
mini-devaluations against the US dollar, and the decline of the dollar, are
estimated to have provided a safety margin of 15-20% - and the February 28
wage adjustments do not raise real wage costs. The large trade surplus
remains a positive factor for growth. While progress needs to be carefully
monitored, the economic outlook has on balance been improved by the
measures to restore internal stability to complement the strong Brazilian
performance in external trade and the balance of payments.
i6.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are thus
encouraging, assuming the maintenance of sound exchange rate policies,
reasonable success in the implementatior. of the new stabilization package,
and the present determination to eliminate the public sector deficit, which
the reforms will help to achieve. A focus on further export promotion,
greater productive efficiency, improved resource allocation and increased
savings and investment will be required if annual GDP growth rates are to
remain high enough (6-7% on average) to restore living standards and
generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum) to fit new entrants
into the labor force and reabsorb those still affected by the recent
recession.
17.       The prospects depend on external factors outside the control of
Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social policies pursued
within the country. Recent developments, including the decline in
international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have been positive
for Brazil. A 1% drop in average interest rates means a balance-of-
payments gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in March with
commercial bank creditors, rescheduling maturities on 1985, rolling over



1986 maturities until early 1987, and reducing interest rates on this debt
from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over LIBOR, will reduce annual interest payments by
some US$140 million. A reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices
means a net gain of over US$100 million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and
therefore on the international economy, market access, and its own trade
policies. However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in
recent years, including substantial export growth and recent efficient
import substitution in both industrial products and petroleum, should make
it feasible to continue to generate large trade surpluses for several
years, even with nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of GDP growth
averaging nearly 7% in 1985-90, with additional foreign assistance. Total
medium and long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at an
annual rate of about 3.8% from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation. If all principal on this debt were repaid on
schedule, gross disbursements would need to rise from US$10.7 billion in
1985 to about US$17.7 billion in 1990, and amortization from US$9.8 billion
to about US$14.0 billion in the same period. Net medium- and long-term
lending, which is estimated at under US$1 billion in 1985, is projected at
an average of US$3.6 billion annually in the period 1986-90. For private
medium- and long-term debt, the projections are consistent with reductions
of total real commercial bank exposure to Brazil. Nevertheless, continued
net lending will be required, at a projected average level of approximately
US$2 billion annually.
20.       The projections suggest that interest payments on all debt would
fall from 39% of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1985 to about
24% in 1990. The total medium and long-term debt service ratio would fall
from 69% of goods and non-factor service exports in 1985, before the March
rescheduling, to a projected 52% in 1990. In the short run, in the absence
of continued debt rescheduling, debt service payments would have reached
levels threatening the recovery. The ratio of total external debt to goods
and non-factor service exports, which amounted to 3.6 in 1985, is projected
to decline to 2.6 by 1990. The results of any projections must be viewed
cautiously because of the uncertainties regarding domestic developments and
future international conditions. Nevertheless, Brazil has the economic
strength, and appears to have the management capabilities and the capacity,
to attract the relatively modest infusions of external capital needed to
maintain satisfactory rates of growth while continuing to meet its
international obligations. Thus, Brazil is creditworthy for new borrowing
on conventional terms in the magnitudes indicated above.



PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By September 30, 1985, the Bank had made 144 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US011,124.8 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, US$1,405.0 million in FY84, and US$1,054.5 million
in FY85. The undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1985 was US$4,278.9
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments
22.       Over the FY77-84 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged
from US$425 million to about US$1,573 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. Nine loans totalling
US$1,523.0 million were approved in FY85. They were a US$300.0 million
loan for a third development banking project, a US$72.0 million loan for a
science and technology project, two loans totalling US$122.7 million for
rural development projects in the Northeast region, a US$16.3 million loan
for a technical assistance and pilot rural water supply and sanitation
project, a US$200.0 million loan for a railway project, two loans totalling
US$712.0 million for a power transmission project and a power distribution
project and a US$100.0 million loan for a land tenure improvement project
in the Northeast. Thus far in FY86 two loans have been approved: one for
a small towns improvement project in the amount of US$24.5 million and the
second for the Northeast Urban Reconstruction project for US$100 million.
Work is advanced for a second agricultural sector project; a power sector
project; a public sector management project; and several projects in the
Northeast region including five rural development projects, an agricultural
extension project, an irrigation engineering project, an irrigation
project, and a health project.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$88 billion at the
end of 1985. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.8% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4.1%.
24.       As of September 30, 1985, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,0?2.95 million, of which US$685.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$347.22 million, US$262.07 million
represent loans and US$85.15 million equity.  A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1985 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil has been through a difficult transition period, achieving
only at substantial domestic cost, and with international cooperation, the
adjustments required to regain reasonable equilibrium in its balance of
payments. Economic recovery, export-led, began in 1984 when the GDP
increased by some 4.5Z. For 1985, growth is estimated at over 8%. Tne
domestic stabilization measures which were introduced on February 28,
1986, improved the prospects for maintaining satisfactory growth rates in



- 8 -
the medium term. Stability and growth will depend on tighter public sector
expenditure and deficit control, increased savings and investment, and a
sound balance of payments. External and domestic resources will continue
to be constrained. The Bank lending strategy is therefore designed to
support the ongoing restructuring process, promote the mobilization and
effective use of resources, and contribute to the attainment of social and
regional development objectives to which high priority is being attached by
the Government.
26.       In the short run, the Bank will continue to help ease Brazil's
financing constraints through several modalities of the Bank's Special
Action Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983.
These include working capital financing and financing of a higher share of
project costs. Also, greater use is being made of Project Special Accounts
into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need
for the Government to prefinance the Bank's share of project costs.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil in sustaining efficient growth. One focus of the lending program is
on structural transformation and efficient resource use. Expanding export
capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development while promoting efficiency through exposure to
international competition. Sector loans to industry and agriculture,
envisaging a restructuring of incentive and trade policies in support of
Government initiatives, have been approved by the Executive Directors.
Follow-up loans designed to support the next steps in this adjustment
process are under preparation. Given agriculture's large potential
contribution to export growth and import substitution, adjustments in this
sector will be crucial to Brazil's stabilization and growth. Sector loans
in support of financial and fiscal reforms will help promote the flow of
resources to the private sector. Lending in support of the financial
restructuring, rehabilitation and development of the energy and industrial
sectors is also envisaged.
28.       Another lending priority is the rehabilitation and development of
infrastructure.   Lending for energy development has addressed the need to
reduce petroleum imports while providing the energy required for
maintaining high rates of economic growth in the future. In the electric
power sector, the Bank's role will be to assist the Government and sector
authorities in their efforts to improve the financial condition of the
sector through realistic investment and financial policies. Lending for
transportation will be directed toward the rehabilitation and maintenance
of the existing transportation network with expansion in areas where
economic activity is outgrowing present capacity.
29.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary education,
vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension, polder
construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and integrated rural
development were designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas,



especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans for water
supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban transport
in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost
housing, and four loans for urban development in two metropolitan areas, in
medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Future lending in the health
sector will seek to extend coverage of basic health services in the
Northeast, and to combat endemic diseases in the Northeast and the
Northwest. Continued lending for integrated rural development and
irrigation projects in the Northeast of Brazil will support the Government
objectives to further alleviate poverty, by addressing the region's
vulnerability to drought, inadequate structure of regional institutions,
and concentration of land ownership. Further lending for urban development
will address ways to improve urban services and infrastructure, while
simultaneously strengthening the financial basis of municipalities,
particularly in the Northeast region, with a view toward self-financing of
investments and cost recovery. New projects for water supply and sewerage
will also foster these goals while extending services to rural areas and to
the low-income urban population. Education lending will continue to
strengthen financial and administrative institutions while also increasing
the contribution of education to the development process, especially in the
Northeast. The proposed project would address the financial and fiscal
strengthening of an important Northeastern metropolis, while also providing
important investments in infrastructure and social services.
30.       Improving the efficiency of the public sector and supporting the
Government's efforts to reduce the public sector deficit are important
components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. A special Public Sector
Management project, designed to strengthen planning and management
capabilities at Federal level, is advanced in preparation. The Bank is
also undertaking a review of public sector investment programs and is
supporting the Government's efforts to rehabilitate state enterprises.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
development prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation helped Brazil in the past to obtain additional
resources from bilateral credit agencies and private financial
institutions. Since 1976, eleven cofinancing operations for about US$570
million were arranged and signed with private financial institutions.
Cofinancing opportunities were rather limited in Brazil in the past four
years, as the volume and terms of commercial bank financing available to
Brazil were determined within the framework of debt rescheduling
negotiations. Given Brazil's recent progress in restoring balance of
payments stability and the current efforts to control inflation, the
prospects for obtaining new external financing from commercial sources are
now improving. Cofinancing could become important again in the near



- 10 -
future, and the new cofinancing instruments developed by the Bank could
play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil additional
resources for high priority projects, with better financing terms.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Sector Development and Organization
32.       In the past thirty years Brazil has shifted from an agrarian,
rural society to an industrialized, urban one. During this period, its
cities absorbed waves of migration from rural areas. While the national
population doubled from 52 million in 1950 to 119 million in 1980, the
urban population quadrupled from 19 million to 80 million. Most of the
urban growth has been in Brazil's central west and southern cities
(Brasilia, Belo Horizonte, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro) where economic
opportunities are more available and as a result both rural and urban
migrants have gravitated toward them in search of employment.
33.        The rapid urbanization of Brazilian society created heavy
demand for additional housing, social services and infrastructure. State
and local authorities, traditionally responsible for meeting these needs,
becane increasingly unable to meet their growing financial obligations. In
1964 the Government took measures to centralize housing finance by creating
the Banco Nacional da Habitagao (BNH), the national housing bank. BNH
administers and controls the housing finance system which provides financ-
ing for a broad range of shelter-related services, within the framework of
the national low-income housing plan (PLANHAB), the national sites and
services program to provide shelter to the poor (PROFILURB) and the
national sanitation plan (PLANASA). Both the housing and sanitation
programs were aided at the local level by establishing State-owned housing
companies (COHABS), and state water companies in 22 of Brazil's states. In
order to resolve urban transport problems in Brazilian cities, the Empresa
Brasileira de Transporte Urbano (EBTU) was established in 1976 to
coordinate, plan and provide financing for urban transport investments. To
coordinate urban planning, the Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(CNDU) was established in 1979. Recently, in March 1985, the Ministry of
Urban Development and Environment (MDU) was established and CNDU became
part of it. The creation of MDU should further enhance urban development
planning and policy formulation at the national level.
34.        Over the past decade Brazil has expanded its housing,
infrastructure and social services with the support of these sector
organizations. Most of its efforts have been directed toward the large
metropolitan areas of the south and center west where population increases
have been greatest. It has also taken measures to influence the heavy
migration from rural to urban areas through a policy of developing the
interior (interiorizacao), providing basic needs to small farmers,
upgrading conditions in medium-sized towns to encourage residents to stay
and providing for settlement of agriculturally productive but less
populated areas such as Amazonia and the Northwest. To some extent these
measures may have been successful as evidenced by the decline in migration
to large centers like Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.



- 11 -
Subsector Constraints
35.       Increases in the scale of urban poverty have placed heavy demands
on the sector Institutions at the national level which have not been able
to meet basic needs in all areas of Brazil. Thus, while the 1960s and
1970s witnessed great strides in the provision of housing and services,
some regions and cities, notably in the Northeast and small towns,
benefitted less than others. A second major constraint is that sector
institutions at the local level are for the most part weak and do not
coordinate their activities. There is a lack of adequate planning,
programming and budgeting, analysis of revenues, tax assessment, collection
and cost recovery, reliable information systems and trained technical
staff. As a result, investments have tended to be politically motivated
rather than selected on least cost criteria and little attention has been
given to effective resource allocation. The third major constraint is that
urban improvements have traditionally been financed almost entirely by
federal and state grants, particularly in the Northeast, where local
authorities have not been encouraged to improve their fiscal resource base,
thus placing a heavy drain on Government revenues. The recently uneven and
unreliable flow of grant funds to local governments has also made it
difficult for them to plan or undertake investment programs, to set
priorities and allocate resources in an efficient way. This situation has
worsened since 1980, because scarce Federal Government resources were
concentrated on supporting agricultural and industrial investments, while
resources for urban and social investment programs were reduced. There is
an urgent need to strengthen municipal finance throughout Brazil and
especially in the Northeast region in order to reduce the reliance on
federal and state transfers and to strengthen the capacity of local
authorities to plan, select and finance priority investments from local
resources and execute them effectively.
The State of Bahia and the Metropolitan Region of Salvador
36.       The State of Bahia is the largest state in Brazil's poorest
region, the Northeast. Like the rest of the Northeast its per capita
income is low, representing only 40% of the national average and over half
the State suffers from chronic droughts which make agricultural production
unreliable.
37.       Over the past 30 years, Bahia's population, like the rest of
Brazil's, has shifted from rural to urban areas. While the State' s
population doubled from 4.9 million in 1950 to 9.6 million in 1980, the
urban population more than tripled from 1.3 million in 1950 to 4.7 million
in 1980. The Salvador Metropolitan Region (SMR), comprising the
Municipality of Salvador and eight other municipalities2/ witnessed a
similar population growth from about 417,000 in 1950 to 1.8 million in
1980. Today, with a population of 2 million, it is the fifth largest
metropolitan region in Brazil and second largest in the Northeast. Its
population is forecast to increase to 2.7 million by 1990 and 3.9 million
in the year 2000, placing heavy demands on local agencies responsible for
2/ The nine municipalities comprising the SMR are: Salvador, Cama9ari,
Candeias, Dias D'Avila, Itaparica, Lauro de Freitas, San Francisco do
Conde, Simoes Filho and Vera Cruz.



- 12 -
urban services, especially on the Municipality of Salvador which provides
services to 85Z of the SMR's population. The SMR is comprised of a network
of valleys and steep hillsides extending southward from Bahia's mainland
into the Bay of All Saints on the west and the Atlantic Ocean on the south
and east (Map IBRD 19298R). The majority of low-income neighborhoods in
the SMR are favelas located on the hillsides, constantly threatened by
landslides during heavy rains. Because of the difficult terrain, the cost
of providing infrastructure in the SMR and upgrading these favelas, is
great because of the extensive drainage and stabilization works required.
38.       Since colonial times, Bahia has been an important agricultural
state despite its affliction from droughts. Today it produces 92Z of the
country's cacao, 60% of its sisal and 47% of its castor beans, exports
which largely pass through the Port of Salvador. But beginning in the
1940s the importance of agricultural crops to Bahia's economy declined, and
was replaced by oil refining and other industries including metals.
Petroleos Brasileiros, S.A. (PETROBRAS) was among the first to invest in
the area, followed by the establishment of the petrochemical complex
(COPEC) in the Municipality of Camagari, the Aratu Industrial Center (CIA)
in the Municipality of Simoes Filho and the expansion of port facilities in
the Municipality of Salvador. The growth of the industrial and service
sectors has contributed to the shift of commercial and administrative
activities away from the historic center. In 1982, Bahia's foreign
exchange earnings from petrochemicals (including metals) and tourism,
amounted to US$750 million and US$45 million, respectively. It is not
surprising that while agriculture employed 70% of the State's working
population in 1970, a decade later it employed only 50Z.
39.       As in the rest of Brazil, federal agencies such as BNH, CNDU and
EBTU provide services, advice and funding for urban programs in the SMR.
The Salvador Metropolitan Development Agency (CONDER) established in 1967
under the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLANTEC), has primary responsibility
for coordinating, planning, supervising and executing metropolitan
development programs in the SMR. The Salvador Metropolitan Development
Fund (FEREM), established in 1973 to finance metropolitan investments, is
administered by CONDER. Up until now FEREM has only channeled federal and
state grant funds to local authorities. An important feature of the
proposed project is that FEREM would make subloans to the municipalities in
the SMR for the first time.
40.       Other agencies which provide urban services in the SMR are the
Bahia State Water Company (EMBASA), Housing and Urban Development Company
(URBIS) and Housing Improvement Company (HAMESA). State agencies such as
these provide water supply and sanitation services (except solid waste
collection and disposal which is a municipal function), low-income housing
and community facilities, basic health, education, power and
telecommunications (in association with federal agencies), and
transportation. Other agencies which are active in the SMR, but do not
limit their support to urban development investments, are the
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE), the
Northeast Development Bank (BNB) and the National Bank for Economic and



- 13 -
Social Development (BNDES). These agencies have been particularly active
in establishing modern industries and revitalizing traditional ones. The
municipalities of the SMR are responsible for social services, urban
cleaning services as well as for providing feeder roads and streets and for
the maintenance of the city's infrastructure as a whole. The main source
of municipal revenues for these activities is the Imposto sobre Circulacao
de Mercadorias (ICM) a value added tax on agriculture, industry and
commerce, the Imposto Predial e Territorial Urbano (IPTU), an urban
property tax, and the Imposto Sobre Servigos (ISS), a services tax.
Government Strategy and the Bank's Role
41.       Brazil has made great strides in expanding housing and urban
services through BNH, EBTU and CNDU. Bank support in the sector has been
provided through eight urban development projects totalling US$685.5 mil-
lion. One of these, for the Preparation of Metropolitan Development
Programs for Fortaleza and Salvador (Loan 2193-BR of August 13, 1982 for
US$8.9 million) helped finance the preparation of the SMR Development Plan,
1985-2000, which forms the basis for the proposed project. Another loan,
the Recife Metropolitan Region Development Project (Loan 2170-BR of June
28, 1982 for US$123.9 million) represented the first Bank-supported effort
to tackle development issues in a large metropolitan area in Brazil. This
project is proceeding satisfactorily but it differs from the one proposed
as it placed less emphasis on strengthening municipal and metropolitan
finance. Two of the eight projects have been completed, albeit with delays
and some cost overruns, and are considered to have achieved their
objective. None of the projects have been so far audited by the Operations
Evaluation Department. In addition to upgrading and expanding low-income
housing, shelter and services, the Bank-supported projects have also
contributed to the preparation of investment plans, training and
strengthening of municipal staff, standardizing the COHAB's procedures and,
decentralizing BNH's preparation and supervision activities to regional
offices. The Bank's role has helped to improve planning and coordination
of urban investments by supporting the creation of CNDU, and of urban
transport investments by supporting the development and strengthening of
EBTU. The Bank was also instrumental in promoting an Urban Development
Seminar in Brasilia in November 1984. The seminar has laid the foundation
for reshaping urban policy to support macroeconomic objectives, and permit
economic growth, while achieving social objectives. The Government is now
turning its attention to projects such as this which reinforce this new
strategy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       In 1982 the Government asked the Bank to assist it in preparing
metropolitan investment programs for the important Northeast metropolitan
areas of Salvador and Fortaleza. The project which resulted, Loan 2193-BR,
financed the Development Plan which forms the cornerstone of the project.
The project was identified in December 1984 and appraised in July 1985.



- 14 -
Negotiations were held in Washington in December 1985. The Brazilian
delegation was led by Dr. Ricardo Guimaraes Pinho, Presidential Planning
Secretariat.
Project Objectives
43.       The objectives of the project are to strengthen the financial
capacity of metropolitan and municipal agencies, support increased economic
productivity of the metropolitan region, improve resource allocation, and
reduce the demand for federal and state transfers. In doing this, the
project would also contribute to the decentralization of urban
administration and financial manangement. The investments included in the
project form part of the SMR's Development Plan and are supported by
financial plans aimed at limiting investment and increasing revenues
through user charges and taxes. The investments support economic
productivity in one of Brazil's largest metropolitan areas and important
Northeast centers of production. At the same time, they would address
social needs by upgrading low-income areas, by improving municipal
services, strengthening metropolitan management and helping preserve the
SMR's rapidly deteriorating historic center. The Bank and BNH are
providing subloans to finance the investments which would be complemented
by grant financing provided pari passu by the State and Federal
Governments. Grant funding would be allocated for the first time on
explicit economic considerations. The investments proposed are expected to
reflect least-cost solutions and high priorities, and generate important
benefits. This is the first time that a metropolitan program which
contains a strong financial management program and funding through subloans
rather than grants, has been undertaken in a Northeast state. It is hoped
that over time, metropolitan areas and municipalities in the Northeast
states, will adopt similar programs which will reduce reliance on grant
funding.
Proj ect Description
44.       The proposed project would finance investments in the SMR,
(US$150.1 million or 99% of the project cost including contingencies) and
technical assistance for MDU (US$900,000 or 1% of the project cost). The
project components and their costs, including contingencies, are given
below. In addition to Federal and State funding, the Bank would finance
(a) (iii), (b)-(g); and BNH would finance (a) (i) and (ii). The State
would finance all of (h).
(a) Urban Upgradinc. (US$48.6 million or 32% of the total proj-
ect cost): (i upgrading of 23 low-income communities
including drainage, road paving and community facilities in
the Municipalities of Camacari and Salvador benefitting
about 25,000 and 147,000 inhabitants, respectively; (ii)
introduction of basic sanitation in eleven low-income
communities in Salvador with a combined population of
198,000; and, (iii) community participation programs to
improve maintenance of neighborhood facilities (drainage,
sanitation canals and footpaths);



- 15 -
(b) Infrastructure. (US$31.1 million or 21X): construction of
about 13 km oi primary roads in Salvador linking the eastern
indus-trialized sector with the administrative center and
providing transport access to low-income residential areas
where none exists;
(c)  Municipal Services.  (US$47.6 million or 32Z):  (i) con-
struction and improvement of solid waste facilitie& :includ-
Ing four new landfills, collection and disposal equipment)
to improve health conditions, reduce operating and main-
tanence costs (as wastes dumped in open sewers and drainage
canals are expensive to dredge) and increase service from
65% to about 90% of households in the SMR by 1990; (ii)
civil works and equipment to improve maintenance services
for municipal infrastructure in Salvador (roads, sidewalks
and drainage), expand such services in Camagari and
introduce services in the remaining seven municipalities for
the first time; and, (iII) rehabilitation and construction
of six municlpal markets in Salvador, the expansion of the
central market and construction of four municipal markets in
Camagari and one in Candeias; and technical assistance to
improve accounting, hygiene and marketing of produce;
(d) Support for Productive Activities. (US$7.4 million or 5%):
(i) site upgrading (including drainage, access roads and
utilities) for one commercial center (300 sites); (ii) site
upgrading for one industrial center (about 130 sites) in
Salvador, construction and equipment for one production
plant and expansion and equipment for two production plants
in Cama;ari which produce basic building materials for
community upgrading programs in low-income areas; and, (iii)
training in equipment use and production techniques in
Camacari and business training, including accounting, for
small-scale enterprises throughout the SMR;
(e) Institutional Development. (US$12 million or 8%): (i)
technical assistance, equipment and training to CONDER in
management of metropolitan services and in supervision
techniques, financial, economic and technical analysis and
in providing assistance to the nine municipalities of the
SMR in financial and administrative management; and (ii)
technical assistance, equipment and training to the
Municipality of Salvador, through CONDER, in restructuring
and updating the cadastre, improving tax assessment (IPTU)
and collection and investment programming and budgeting;
(f) Technical Assistance. (US$590,000 or 0.4X): feasibility
studies of the rehabilitation of the historic center of
Salvador;



- 16 -
(g) Metropolitan Areas. (US$860,000 or 0.6Z): technical assis-
tance to the HDU to study the management of up to eight
other metropolitan areas and make recommendations for im-
provement; and,
(h) Administration. (US$2.9 million or 2%): staff resources,
equipment and office facilities for CONDER to administer and
supervise the proposed project.
Project Implementation
45.       The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the Borrower and the
State of Bahia through CONDER, would be responsible for administering the
project components in the SMR. MDU, through its Secretariat of Urban
Development (SDU), would be responsible for preparing the metropolitan
areas' component and recommending ways to strengthen municipal finance in
other metropolitan areas. MDU/SDU would submit the terms of reference for
the metropolitan management consultants to the Bank for review and
comment. The Borrower would establish a project account for MDU/SDU in the
Banco do Brasil as a condition of effectiveness. MDU/SDU would also
monitor and supervise CONDER's management of the project in the SMR. As a
condition of effectiveness MDU would enter into an agreement (convenio)
with the State setting forth the mechanisms satisfactory to the Bank for
transferring loan proceeds and the arrangements for supervision.
46.       The infrastructure, municipal services and productive activities
components, designed by CONDER and the Municipalities would be executed by
contractors. The institutional development and technical assistance
components were designed and would be executed by CONDER. CONDER would
supervise and exercise quality control over all components. CONDER and the
Municipalities of Salvador and Camacari successfully completed works under
Loan 2193-BR. Under the proposed loan, their management, financial and
administrative capabilities would be further strengthened through the
inastitutional development component.
47.       In order to undertake works included in the infrastructure,
municipal service and productive activities' components, each municipality
would enter into a Participation Agreement satisfactory to the Bank with
the State through CONDER setting forth the procedures for executing the
components in accordance with a Manual of Lending Policies and Procedures.
The Manual, agreed to during negotiations, includes financial, technical
and procurement procedures including disbursement, accounting, auditing and
repayment of the subloans. Each executing agency would also enter into a
FEREM Subloan Agreement with CONDER, as administrator of FEREM, setting
forth the subloan terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including
withholding the municipalities' ICM as collateral for the subloans.
Participation Agreements between the State of Bahia and three of the larger
municipalities included in the project have already been signed. The
signature of Participation Agreements with the remaining small
municipalities and the FEREM Subloan Agreements would be conditions of
disbursement for each community.



- 17 -
48.       CONDER, as administrator of FEREM, and DESENBANCO would enter
into an Operating Agreement for assisting FEREM in loan portfolio
management (disbursement, repayment and accounting). The Operating
Agreement would be a condition of effectiveness and would provide for
DESENBANCO's financial management training of CONDER's staff.  During
negotiations CONDER agreed to establish two project accounts in FEREM: one
for making subloans and the second for providing grants for technical
assistance. FEREM's auditing and budgeting procedures are in accordance
with State standards and are acceptable to the Bank. A plan for progress
reporting, monitoring indicators and interim and final project evaluation
were agreed to during negotiations. Annual audits by auditors acceptable
to the Bank of FEREM's two project accounts, MDU/SDU's project account and
the Special Account established in the Borrower's Banco Central for the
project were also agreed to.
49.       The upgrading and sanitation works to be financed by BNH would be
undertaken by the Bahia State agencies, EMBASA, URBIS and HAMESA. All
three agencies have participated in other Bank-supported water supply,
sewerage and urban projects and their performance was satisfactory.
Although the State agencies have their own supervisory staff, CONDER would
coordinate and provide advice on works as needed. BNH would enter into a
convenio with the State (EMBASA, URBIS and HAMESA) and the Municipality of
Camacari for the upgrading component. Bank approval of the BNH Convenio
with the State would be a condition of loan effectiveness and Bank approval
of the BNH Convenio with Camacari would be a condition of disbursement.
Both Convenios would follow a standard format setting forth selection,
design, financial criteria and cost recovery mechanisms.
Project Cost, Financing and Cost Recovery Plan
50.       The total cost of the project including contingencies, but
excluding interest during construction and taxes, is estimated at US$151
million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$55.6
million or 37% of the project cost. Costs are based on July 1985 prices
(updated to January 1986) and include physical contingencies of 13Z. Price
contingencies of US$35.5 million or 35% of project costs are based on
international inflation of 7% in 1986 and 1987, 7.52 in 1988, 7.7% in 1989,
7.6% in 1990 and 4.5% in 1991 and thereafter. This assumes that the
cruzeiro would be devalued to reflect domestic and international
inflation. Construction costs are based on unit costs provided by CONDER
for equivalent civil works. Equipment costs are based on the procurement
of similar items in Brazil. Technical assistance and consultants' costs
are based on Bank experience with similar internationally and locally
recruited experts in Brazil.
51.       The Bank loan of US$55 million, representing 36% of total
eligible project costs, would finance 100% of eligible foreign costs. The
Federative Republic of Brazil, the Borrower, would through a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement onlend US$54.5 million of the loan to the State of Bahia for
investments in the SMR and the remaining US$500,000 of the Bank loan would
be made available to MDU/SDU for the management studies. The Borrower and



- 18 -
the State have agreed to finance the balance of US$30 million and US$66
million, respectively. The State would finance US$32.3 million from its
own budgetary resources and US$33.7 million from internal borrowings from
BNH.
52.       The financing arrangement for investments in the SMR have several
important features. The first is that the Bank loan together with the
loans from BNH would be onlent as subloans by the State to the municipali-
ties and CONDER for the first time. Previously, SHR investments have been
grant financed. A detailed analysis of the municipalities' finances
indicated that they will be able to repay the subloans if they adhere to
the measures included in their financial plans of action (paras. 56-58).
53.       A second important feature is that the Bank loan would be
channeled to municipalities and CONDER by the State through FEREM in such a
way as to enable FEREM to be capitalized. The State would onlend US$15
million of the Bank loan of US$54.5 million to FEREM and would make the
remaining US$39.5 million available on a grant basis. FEREM would onlend
US$47.8 million to the SMR municipalities, principally Salvador and
Camacari, and CONDER, and would make the remaining US$6.7 million available
on a grant basis to CONDER to finance technical assistance.
54.       The total amount of the Bank loan of US$47.8 million onlent by
FEREM to the municipalities and CONDER would be repaid at 6Z interest, 10
years for equipment and 18 years for civil works, including three years of
grace. FEREM on the other hand, would repay the State only US$15 million
of the Bank loan (interest at the Bank's variable rate, for 15 years
including 3 years of grace). The difference between subloan repayments to
FEREM (US$47.8 million) and FEREM's repayment to the State (US$15 million)
represents a total capitalization of US$32.8 million which would be onlent
for future municipal works. To insure that the funds resulting from the
capitalization are relent as subloans and not passed on as grants, it was
agreed during negotiations to alter FEREM's regulations accordingly before
the loan becomes effective.
55.       The BNH loan of US$33.7 million would be lent to the State
implementing agencies EMBASA, URBIS and HAMESA, and to the Municipality of
Camacari. BNH offers standard terms that are acceptable to the Bank (5.5%
interest, 22 years repayment including two years of grace).
56.       The municipalities would achieve 100% cost recovery of the
proposed investments financed by the Bank from the measures included in
their financial plans of action. The municipalities would cover debt
service, operations and maintenance by increases in existing revenues
directly attributable to the project and the reforms included in the
municipalities' financial plans (user charges, IPTU, ISS, paras. 57-58) as
follows:



- 19 -
- Infrastructure. Primary Roads - About 3X from increased IPTU
made possible by extending the primary road network
and the remainder from increases in general revenues.
- Municipal Services. Solid waste collection and disposal
services - One hundred percent of collection and disposal in
industrial and commercial areas would be recovered directly
from increased user charges; One hundred percent of services
to residential beneficiaries would be recovered indirectly
from improvements in IPTU and ISS; maintenance services -
One hundred percent indirectly from increased IPTU and ISS;
market improvements - One hundred percent directly through
user charges (rental fees). Setting rents at levels
sufficient to recover costs by the Municipalities of
Salvador, Camacari and Candeias is a condition for
disbursing this component.
- Productive Activities. Commercial and Industrial Sites - One
hundred percent directly through land sales. Setting sales
prices at levels sufficient to recover costs by the
Municipality of Salvador would be a condition of
disbursement for this component.
The level of cost recovery for investments not financed by the Bank (urban
upgrading in low-income communities) would be lower because of the social
nature of these works. Upgrading would be recovered directly through land
legalization fees. Road paving and community facilities would be recovered
indirectly through increases in IPTU. Sanitation works would be recovered
directly through user charges.
57.       With 87Z of municipal investments under the project located in
the Municipality of Salvador, municipal financial conditions there are of
major concern. The Municipality has taken steps to reduce its investment
program and recurrent expenditures. It has prepared a Financial Plan of
Action which would be reviewed annually by CONDER to increase its annual
own-source revenues and limit long-term borrowings beginning in 1986. The
plan was agreed to during negotiations and its implementation would be a
condition of disbursement. It includes the introduction of full cost
recovery through user charges for solid waste collection to industrial and
commercial premises which would provide US$2 million equivalent per year by
1991, an 133% increase over total 1984 user charge revenues. CONDER would
also recover landfill costs through such charges. Putting the charges into
effect would be a condition of disbursement for the component. The plan of
action also includes administrative reforms to the municipal cadastre
(improved collection efficiency and coverage) which would provide about
US$4.0 million equivalent additional IPTU revenues by 1991, an 88%
increase over 1984 IPTU revenues. These administrative reforms also would
provide about US$2.0 million equivalent additional ISS revenues by 1991, a
28% increase over the 1984 level. The combined effect of the local revenue
recovery measures included in Salvadorts plan of action would provide



- 20 -
annual revenues of about US$8.0 million equivalent in 1991, representing a
60% increase over 1984 total municipal own-source revenues. In addition,
the Municipality of Salvador would be able to begin to revalue the updated
cadastre properties in 1988, which could further increase IPTU revenues in
1991 by about US$2.5 million equivalent.
58.       Only 7% of municipal investments under the project would be
located in the Municipality of Camacari. During negotiations a Financial
Plan of Action for Camagari which would be reviewed annually by CONDER was
agreed to. Its implementation would be a condition of disbursement. The
plan focusses on budgetary management and expenditure control. In the
other seven SMR municipalities, where 61 of municipal investments are
located, CONDER would assist in the preparation of financial plans of
action for each municipality acceptable to the Bank by September 1986.
These are expected to focus on improved revenue administration and the
programming of capital improvements.
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Procurement under the project would be carried out in accordance
with bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Civil works contracts
over US$4.0 million with a total cost of US$27.8 million or 18X of project
costs, and equipment contracts over US$500,000 with a total cost of about
US$26.5 million or 18X of project costs, would be procured through ICB.
Computing equipment with a total cost of US$700,000 or 0.5% of total
project costs would be procured under reserved procurement procedures and
has therefore been excluded from Bank financing. It has also been excluded
from project costs in determining the loan size. The remaining contracts
would be procured through LCB in which foreign contractors are eligible to
participate. Local procurement procedures ensure adequate competition and
are consistent with Bank procurement guidelines. For contracts for works
and equipment of US$50,000 and less, up to an aggregate of US$3.0 million,
price quotations from not less than three qualified contractors or
suppliers would be required. Technical assistance and professional
services amounting to US$25.9 million or 17% of project costs, would be
procured following the Bank's 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Bidding documents for all contracts over US$500,000 would be reviewed, ex
ante, by the Bank.  The remaining documents would be reviewed by CONDER,
which would report to MDU/SDU, and would be reviewed by the Bank, ex post,
on a sample basis.
60.       A Special Account in the amount of about US$3.0 million
(estimated three months' disbursements) would be established in the Central
Bank. The Bank would disburse at a rate of 61% for civil works, materials
and equipment to be executed by CONDER and the municipalities in the SMR
and financed by subloans from the FEREM. The Bank would not disburse
against the procurement of computers, project administration and components
funded by BNH. The Bank would disburse at a rate of 34Z for expenditures
for technical assistance, training and equipment to be executed by CONDER
and at a rate of 55% for such expenditures to be executed by MDU/SDU.
Disbursements would be made against standard documentation and, for items



- 21 -
under US$50,000 in value, against certified statements of expenditures.
CONDER would retain detailed documentation for expenditures and make it
available for review by the Bank during supervision.
61.       Retroactive financing in an amount equivalent to US$1.0 million
for technical assistance, civil works and equipment executed since August
1, 1985 would be provided. The State has budgeted for the 1985 and 1986
investments, and the corresponding designs have been completed. CONDER
intends to implement the program in seven years, howevcr, an Implementation
schedule of eight and a half years and a disbursement profile of nine years
has been used reflecting experience with urban projects in the region.
This profile implies that disbursements would be completed by the Closing
Date of December 31, 1994.
Benefits and Risks
62.       The major benefits of the proposed project are financial, insti-
tutional and technical improvements which cannot be quantified. The
project is expected to strengthen the financial capability of the SMR by
increasing revenue raising capacity through the use of improved cost
recovery arrangements, user charges and real estate taxes which form the
financial basis for making subloans. The project is affordable as a result
of the measures to improve local revenue performance in the Municipality of
Salvador, budgetary control in the Municipality of Camacari and more
disciplined revenue administration and financial prograiming in the other
seven municipalities. The process of preparing the SMR Development Plan,
which will be financed for the first time by subloans instead of entirely
by grants, has encouraged the municipalities and CONDER to adopt least-cost
solutions and focus on a rational system of resource allocation. Through
the capitalization of FEREM and the linking of grant funds to complement
subloans, the burden of federal and state grant funding would be reduced
and allocation of resources improved.   The shift away from grant funding
of metropolitan investments has important ramifications for the rest of
Brazil., but especially the Northeast where this concept is being tried for
the first time.
63.       The weighted average economic return for the project is 16%.
Individual returns for all components range from 13% to 25%. About 39% of
the SMR' s population, with incomes below the poverty threshold of three
minimum salaries, will benefit from about 30% of project investments and
will indirectly benefit from a further 50% of project investments.
64.       Default or delays in payment of subloans by the municipalities to
FEREM would reduce the impact of the project in providing a source of loan
financing in the future. This risk is mitigated by the State's strong
support of the project, by the revenue strengthening reforms included in
the project and by the withholding of municipal tax revenue (ICM) by the
State as collateral. The timely execution of the project depends upon the
availability of counterpart funds. Given the broad-based political support
for tne project this risk should be minimal.



- 22 -
PART V - RECOMNEDATION
65.       1 an satisfied that the proposed loan vould comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recowuend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 1, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
ZIL                   - SOCAL                 REICA?OfuDa SURE?
IRAZIL                            ma         Smutam S c Wn immID AVEEu) /a
muI                (NUT IIU I  USDIRAT) A        
sonar               (MDI?I 1 cn  *rw       D  
28an iW uz ozums                    soIDD" incus
mal,    197dbk        sinuakt   LATr. IMCA c   Ca sca
a          D CUO S EQ. a)
'nrAL                           6512.0       6512.0     6512.0
AGRCULTURAL                     1*36.4       1961.2     2352.7
mu a  A      tn (5s)                330.0       600.0      2260.0           2103.6                  2345.3
(IILoCRms or OIL RQUIVALtffT)    24.0         412.0      740.0            "3.5                   11223
venue.TN -m VITAL SflfSfc
POPUATION.NlD-WER (CTHNS)  7239.0           93647.0   12003.0
UA  POPULATION (t2 OF TOTAL)      44.9        55.6  *       I.             66.5                    46.0
POPULATION PECTIONS
POPULATION IN YER 2000 (MILL)                          161.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                           303..
POPULATIONT NOTU                                         1.6
POPULATION 0DKStTY
PER SQ. KM.                      6.5         11.3       14.6             35.7                    82.9
PE SQ. 0. ACHI. LAND            44.4         *6.4       32.7             92.4                   [56.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE ()
0-14 13S                        43.6        42.7       40.9             39.9                    31.6
LS-6  YIS                       33.3        54.3        55.6             56.0                    61.1
b5 AND AIOVE                     2.6          3.1        3.5              4.1                     7.1
POPULATION CROMt RATE (C)
TOTAL                             3.1         2.8        2.3              2.4                     1.6
URA                              S.7          5.0        4.1              3.6                     3.7
CRUDE 3IHTH IATE (PCR TIIOUS3     42.7         35.0       31.2             31.3                    23.4
CRUDE OEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       12.9        10.3        6.1              6.1                     8J.
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.0          2.4        1.9              2.0                     1.6
FANILT PLAN?IINC
ACEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..        111.0      203.6 j5
USERU ( OF MUAIED wOMEN)          ..          ..         ..              40.3
IDEX OF FOOD POD. PER CAPrrA
(1969-71-100)                     89.0        102.0      133.0            114.3                  14.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (C Or REQUIRiET)      l06.0        104.0      107.0            110.6                   128.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PE DAT)         64.0        62.0        60.0             67.3                    69.7
OF MICH MHALIAL AND PULSE      35.0        34.0       36.0 -/d         34.1                    34.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE       19.4         12.5        6.0              3.7                     S.2
LIFE EIAPEC. AT BIRTH (YEARS)     54.7        51.9        63.6             64.7                    67.4
INFANT HORT. RAT (PERA THOUS)    118.2        96.6        73.4            60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                             ..         55.0       77.1 l          65.4
URBA                              ..         76.0       6a.8 I.          78.1
RURAL                             *-         26.0       56.6 7-r         46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
tars                               . .       56.0       64.8 la          52.9
UR                                ..        85.0        83.7 7T          67.0
RURAL                             *-         26.0       31.7 To          24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2Z10.0      2130.0         ..            1917.7                  106S.8
POP. PER UCRSINC PERSON         2B10.0       1120.0        ,,             315.6                   764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
SOTAL                           310.0       270.0      250.0 u          367.2                   326.3
URBAN                          250.0        320.0         ,,            411.3                   201.5
RURtAL                            ..          ..          ..           2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..         16.4         -              27.3                    20.0
AVERAGE SIZE oF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.1          4.8        4.9 /.
L3aAN                             ..          4.6        4.7 7;-
RilAL                                         5 3.2      5.37
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
aTAL                             ..         1.1
URIIs                             ..          1.0
RURAL                             ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF WELLINC5)
TOTAL                            38.7        47.6       67.4
URBAN                             ..         75.6       u.5
RURAL                             *-         8.4        20.6



-24 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
5. "Th                 - 100113TUMOOC ATORS mu SUN?
_1"+41                               X  I 0;i ue '>ilJ m A1IGUTE  AVEUAEE M
mO                  CMSS aian 1     KM   ) A
usoLk.    19701k    xsrENT         UAT.    INtrAE&           NIDtCTIUI
-waa
ADMTS53 ENROLUST RATICI
INARTY   TOTML                    93.0         84.0          0  /          105.4                     101.1
MAM                    97.0         84.0       93.0 iLk         106.3                     105.5
nAz                    93.0         14.0        93.0            104.3                      96.7
SEOODT: TOVCL                     11.0         26.0       32.0              43.2                     59.1
MAZL                   11.0         26.0        29.0 iLK         42.3                      61.9
FZH=                   10.0         27.0        35.0             44.5                     50.6
VOCATIONAL CSX OF S0C13E)           16.6         16.7       59.2 A            33.6                     21.6
FUPIL-T'UAN RATIO
1R3L34                            33.0         28.0       26.0 1            30.1                     25.1
SE0cU:ar                          13.0         13.0       14.0 af           16.8                     20.3
ADULT LTmEACt LAT! (S)              61.0         66.2       76.0 /f           79.5                     75.6
P    SR CARB/UIADJWM POP             7.6        16.6        48.9              46.0                     54.7
SAto  ozZtvnj/raogmum  POP          65.4       106.4       165.1             225.6                    164.9
TV hhOEIVhR/TOUSAJW   P0P           16.5         44.3      119.7             107.2                    123.8
IA13IA    ("DALT  RRAL
MtMUT') CIRCULATION
Pm  THOUSAND OPOPLATIxo           52.9         35.6       44.0 lL           63.5                     96.3
CIlIUA ANNUAL ATTBNMNR/oWCTA         4.4          2.0        1.8 UA            2.8                      2.9
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (TNOCS)         23326.0      30411.0    40365.0
11KAL (PRRCZET)                  17.2         20.1       23.2              23.2                     34.5
AMICULTURE R(ERCENT)            51.9         45.6       29.9              31.5                     40.7
nUmUSTT (PERCENT)                 14.8         18.3       24.4              23.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATIOu RATE (PERCZNT)
TOTAL                             32.1         31.7       31.8              32.2                     42.9
maxl                              52.7         50.3       48.9              49.3                     54.7
P11ALE                            11.2         12.8        14.8             15.2                     31.0
z00MICC DZNDOCT RATIO                1.4          1.4        1.4               1.4                      0.9
WflUR    OPSSI3 VAZINCOHI
REi5XVZD BFY
UZOS? 352 01 HOUSJCOLDS             ..
RIHEcST 201 or 3B0SER3LDS         60.0         63.5       62.0J
LOUZST 20= 0F HDOUSEMLDS           3.8          3.2        LB .
LUIIIST 402 Or ROUSEROLDS         10.8          9.0        9.4                ..
ESTIKASD AllOLW   POVER   NCQIZ
LEVE (USS PER CAPITA)
uCnm                                .,          ..           .             288.2
RURAL                               ..           .       150.0 /d          184.0
ZSlTWau RELATIVE OVERTY IDEC43
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
RM                                  ..          ..       465.0      /d 522.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       332.0             372.4
ZSTDATZD POP. 3EL0W A-SOLUTZ
YOtW? DICCKI LEVE (2)
IN                                  ........
RURAL                              ..
NOT AVAILULE
NOT APPLICD L
N O T E 5
A    The group averages for each Indicator are population-weihted arithtatic monn. Coverage of countries mon the
indicators dapnds on availability of data and In not uniform.
lb  Unlea, otherwieo noted. "Data far 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee  199 and
1971; and data for "MOAt Recent Zatiate" betwen 1980 and 1982.
/e  1975; Jd 1977; A  1976; /f 1979; a  BeginnIng 1973 priary and secondary education cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17
ntea   of 7-1 ad 11-17Ia earLter years; therefore, moat receet eutimtes are not comparable with earlier data:
Ah 1978.
JUNE, 1984



ANNME I
-25-                                                  Page 3 of 7
DEFNmMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notee Although th data are drawn fromsum  getr lly judgd the moat auhoritadve and rdiable it hould ao be nted that they may not be iernationally
comparble becaume of the lack of standardied defindon and concepts usd by different countriea In collecting the data. The data are, nethekLs useful to
describe orden of magnitude. Indicate trends and chaacerize cerain major differe betwn countrie.
The rebrnce Xroups are (1) the same country group of the subjet country and (23 a country goup with somewhat higher averge income than the country
group of the aubject country (except For -Hgh Income Oil Expoters" group where Middle Income North Africa and Middle Eat" is choen beaue of stronger
siodutural aIidmlties) In the refernce group data the avers are population weighted arithmetic mean for each indicator snd hown only when majority
of the countries in a group ha data for that IndieCtor Since the coverag of countries among the indictorn depends on the avalability of data and is not uniform.
caution must be exrcised in rekling averas of one indicator to another These averaes are only useful in comparing the value of one indicator at a time among
the country and reference groupLs
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crude Rkh Rate (per shousand)-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Cmrd Death Rate (per trhomand)-Number of deaths in the year
A-eiluinva1-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodwct     Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS-NP per capita estimates at current            in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World      Fan1y Pdming-Accepors, Annua  (thonsands)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis): 1983 data,                            ber of acceptors or birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       Fan    Phl    g4sers (pew  of narried wonarn)-The percen-
petrokum, natural gas and hydro-, nuetear and geothermal elec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generlly women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is rmeasured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATLSICS                                    groups.
Total Popudio. Mid-Yetr (thlmavdsJ-As of July l; 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Inexpof FeodProdotien PerCapita (1969-71= 100)-Index of per
Urban Popueaio  (percent of retol)-Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Populton Projections                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 200-The projection of population for 2000,     excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables. fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality races, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980, these parameters   on national avenge producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
wer projected at five-year intervals on the basis of genealized   1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Ckpita S5ply of Calries (percent of r-  emnrms-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food sup 4. available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement klvl  tion, imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(nel reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                        waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monwenrw-ls the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of Pr,oein (grms per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momenturn of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace  should be animal protein. These standardsare lower than those of
ment klvel from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populato  Density                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Proein Supy Frm Animal and Puose-Proten   supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 19614-5.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Popufation Age Struture (percent)-Children (0- 14 years). work-   Chd (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
f 'uato Gteroth Rare (perc ten-torlAnnual growcth rates Of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Popuati  Growh Rate (percent)-urhan-Annual growth rates           Life Erpectancy at Birth (yenrs)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-26-                                         ANNqEX I
-Pae 4-of  7
at the time of or its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pupl-teacher Ratio - primary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Infat Mmtaty Riwe (per th.send)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding klvs.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPIlON
Access to Sarf  Watgr (puai  of popab.tlm-tutui  mrban, and    Passegr Cers (per thsand pepultio)-Passenger cars com-
rurnl-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) with rasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons. exdudes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehides.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected
boreholes, springs and sanitary wfis) aS percntages of their respec-  ror radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
dye populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  rgistration of radio ses was in effect data for recnt years may
as being within reasonable awess of that house. In rural areas  not be comparble sinc most countries abolished licensing.
reasonablc access would imply that the housewife or menbers of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Receem (per tan-d poplaiin) -T V receivers for broadcast
in fctching the family's water needs.                          to genral public per thousand population; excludes unlicend TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV set was
Acecrs to Excre!t DbpoS (perecoS f popJ   m-tern/, ierb,       in effct
and rura-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  i elect.
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  New5pUW Cwfcu fto (per thousond pepulado.)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disp,sal may indude the colection and disposal, with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper," defined as a
without treaiment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primnarily to recording general news.
borne systems. or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Popuaion per Phjy dn-opulation divided by number of prac-     Ceminw Amn! Attendnce per Cpta per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number or tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
PopuLaio per NIrUn  Persm-Population divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
Popaon per Hospwa  Oetd-a, ab   and                            Tolpation  Ta Labor Force (fhosads)-Economically active persons, in-
(total. urban. and rral) divided by their respective number or  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
(tosptal, urbedsvaiablein,ubland ruratcbgenval) dspcivided by  students, etc.. coverng population of all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and private, genera and specilalzed vaiuconreaentcmpab;190190nd93dt.
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  vanous ountrics are not comprabk; 1960,1970 and 1983 data.
pemnently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femal (pereunt)-Femnale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principaly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Apiukww (percent--Labor force in farming. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
or medical tacilities.                                         Indry (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction, manu-
Ad0issions per Hopoal Bed-Total number of admissions to or    facturingandelectricity,waterandgasas percentageoftotallabor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       Force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pf fi4atn Rae (perceart-toa, ae, andJemal-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male, and fiemale labor force
Arage SI.-e of Hossehod (persn per househld.i-total, uba,     as percentages of total. male and femak population of all ages
and rura-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILOas
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodgcr may or  partidpation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates arc from national sourmes.
Avere Number of Person per Room-total, urban, and rural-      Econmc DepeJdency Rat_-Ratio or population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 1 5-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-pernanent stncures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Perceage of Dwelings wit Ekearicity-teral, urban, and rua-    Percenage of Total Disposabkl laconwt (both   csh ad hin)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentil groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A5ted  nrolment Ratios                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
P'nimy school - rota  male and fermal-Gross total. male and   levekl and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Esimaed Absolrte Poverty Income Lewd ( USCper ceaa)-urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionaDy adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practiccs in the ages znd duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Etmated Relative Pver lncome Level (11SS per cafitaD-urban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. malk and fenal-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at kast four years of approved pri-  Esimaed Population Beow Absol4te Poverty Incowe Lew  (per-
mary instruction; provides general. vocational, or teacher training  ce ar)-rban ad rura- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally exduded.
Vocational Ewroimei (percent of secondary)--Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



-D1-
P4 S of 7
ftpulsttlm      129.7 udtlice (md-1983)
-l rwr C*La: UIS3,890 (1963)
IS$ ItUta  at                                                       knud O1aN11 Rasa C%)
IndicaLot                    (19)                                 A c t u A l                                                     P r o j a C L a d
1975     1960     1963       1982       1983     198td         1685/    19to        1967       1911      1 989     IWo
Cmn. Diatlc FftuMI             212.3DD          5.6      7.2     -1.6        0.9       -3.2      4.5            8.3       6.2        7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
riokdtu                       26,238          2.7      6.2      6.4       -2.5        2.2      4.3            8.8       2.0        4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5
Zid-tty                       62.792          5.3      7.9     -5.2        OJI       -6.8      5.9            9.0       8.0       8.5        8.5       1.5       8.9
sewim                         M03            10.3      7.3    -41          1.7       -3.5      1.0            7.8       6.0       6.5        h.5       6.5       6.5
QMUm Ljm                       165,571         8.4       3.5      0.2        3.3       -2.0      0.6             .3       4.7        5Z       6.5       6.3       6.1
Cmg In_t_b                      34,817         -7.0     12.1   -15.9       -4.2       -17.5      1.0           12.2      24.9       12.3      12.0      11.6       13.6
Elmpqrw of olS                  29.399         12.4     22.7     20.9      .8.4        13.6     24.9          -1.2       -1.0       5.4        3.4       2.3       5.3
Topru  d E S                    17,665        -9.6       1.8    -13.4      -5.2       -17.2     -e.5          -3.2       22.0       1.5       10.7       6. 1      9.7
Cras Natla  S.vzg               23,618         -6.4     11.6    -16.6      -l0.6       -3.4     22.6           11.7   7 h.3         15.0      13.1       11.1      12.6
,Pr
0DP tetlaw (1970-100)                         305      2.955    5.6s6    11,48D      28.261   90,561
Ed.vP Rate (ae,re.crSASS)                      8.1      52.7     93.1      179.5      577.0  1,W66.9
Shm af GOP at  ImL r"    C7)                               AwsW  khual lane. CZ)
Uc Oawrt Pclc..)                                     (At (b.tmL 1984 Priem)
1975       19W          5/1d    1990$                        1975-0    198065    3985.90
*ia D. stic Ptrodct                   100.0      100.0     10D.0     103.0                            6.5       0.8       6.8
bgd    im                             9.2       11.0      11.5      10.1                            9.5       2.2       4.1
Izrtmy                               31.1      28.8       29J       32.1                            4.6     -0.3        84
S2rvnm                               43.6      66.8       48.7      47J                             7.8       1.3       8.4
-UWCIi                                 76.6      81.3       78.0      74.3                            7.7      -1.8       5.8
*3m. bnt,. i...b                       27.3      21.1       17.0      26.0                            2.8     -6.2       13.7
biurta c5m                              7.5       8.8       12.5      10.4                            6.4      14.5       3.2
1 teQws                                11.4      11.2        7.4       8.7                          -1.3       -1.8       9.3
Gvess L at11.1 S.W1i                   22.1       16.1      17.1      23.0                          -1.6       -4.5      14.3
n o Z of GOP
(At zrremt (1ueia Prices)
PFmc FYn  (Cina Gomrnt)                                    1970     1975    1979   195D/r  1981/!  1912/!
Qerut bReI                                                 16.6     19.8    20.8    20.1    18.9    21.2
Oamt E      reda                                           16.6     15.8    11.6    191    20.2    25.4
Stuplo (+) or Thfldt -)                                     2.2      4.0      3.2     0.3   -1.4    -4.2
CMpLtaI 7Eqmuthm                                            2.6      3.8      3.7     4.1     3.5     3.4
Fimdig OSe)                                                 0.4     -0.2      0.5     3.9     4.9      7.6
Odur       t                      19754O 19045 1985490
GWPa1mdamte CZ)                     7.0       0.5     7.3
aW Pnr Cipiza (MLtb RAte CC)        3.0      -1.9     5.0
&MV 0Mu'100 Crath Rate CZ)    6.5            -        -
IZIR                                3.3      Z47      3.
I        Srgl   smv 1w paw          0.0      0.5      0.4
Imart slasticlt                    -02      -2.4      1.4
/a At st  prIm;   aU           v - eqI     at fattar ant ad  dll not uM de to exclausii of met inDirect t    ad smbIdii.
7   '97540 mnims   e for gom; luning; atiniin for sbcqemmt yeaw am fr fixad t,v                    mItte     dth   In swod  Included In 0x,uqtion.
rF PojeCimi   E St Watnt pm..
7*i smmimty.
Tf 196042 Include. s     t   ad  tirum affecat  deui de nmetaty btuget ud molrr Xweams    h.     ell e a uF   to tl faderal ratepi.
MHrch 21. 19B6



imamO - CmI& 71m.Ld
Lo utIUm  AL                                              Mml Rumh 1a1    (2) - t.mi,m . 1970 pru1/)d
Ornut rrT                                            _
In-lt CRLof                   (1WA)                                  AC L1111                                                      PrajecLid
1175     1911      19H1      12          194       11114     1911 Ij ON1          19117      11118     lIP        IW0
bnub
PN.rdWt  tripwu                  2.m             23.9      21.2      9.9       -3.0        27.5     24.1         2.6      -1.0         I.A       3.4        2.3      5.1
Prtffruy                        10,357          3.7       204       6.8      -10.1        14.3      3.8        24.5      -3.4        1.2         .e       1.6       3.6
II.ima.t                        16.mo            0.0      22.5     40.-        7.4        43.5     3b.1        15.5       0.7        3.6        3.2        1.5      6.6
tbr.hdt.m  IwinaL                13.916         -15.0       1.4     -9.4      -20.3       -15.9     -2.2        .4.8       21.0        1.5      10.7       8.1       9.7
d & ounimzr cow                 1.538           92.2     11.2      6.8       -1.2       -8.1      -L0          3.0      109.0      41.         11.2      7.7       6.7
feLmLftn                       6.86            -3.8     -9.H      -5.0       -2.6      -10.6    -13.7        -18.7      -2.1       11.1        1.6       LS        9.9
Jhhlzry ad oq1pI t              2.111           9.8       0.4     -6.9      -22.2       -13.0      8.4        18.5       37.3      111.4      15.        14.2     11.e
(XhuN                           2.16i         -l0.6      -2.2      1.a      -i20a          .1     20.9        -9.0      23.0       10.9       10.1       9.4   8 .6
Prim
bqon Price 1IdI                                             11.7       12f       114        97        100         97        105       1io        116        127      132
1 xPrtw  a     ace  1                              71       125       116        12         143       10         99         94         91        105       112       120
To       of Trab td                               125       IIH        93         75         a8       100         9e        112        [t0       III        113      116
COqEI LiAM  of   rd,mdtm TraI (2)                              AR.rqp Auuat bmining CZ)
Cat o*rW t Prhce)                                        (aL  eiE  1970 prcm)Ld
1975       1910       19i5      1990                           1975-0    1910"5    195-90
KWIqAn                                  100.0     100.0     1m0O       100.0                             5.8       11.0       3.2
;riry/f                                2.1       4.        41.2       41.2                             1.1        L.6       3.6
_Mhnaciurt /b                          37.3      55.2      39.1      59.8                            1U.2 /a    23.2         3.0
*qU                                     I0.0      100.0    10.0       100.0                            -1.4       -2.7       10.4
Foadl ad COur Cmmd                     9.8       11.1       12.0      10.8                            17.5      - 4.5       7.9
Pet                                   25.4       44.4       42.1      36.5                             4.3       -7.3       6.4
_hd-ry ad I! tp-                      25.5       15.4       19.2      2.3                             -7.5       -3.4      1.2
Other                                 35.3       29.1       24.7      20.4                            -1.9       -3.1        9.9
Show of Trad within                 at trek wih              Sh9 of t          wiLth Oil
TukLrtal QinLra. CZ)            trwLqa       Gazartr_ (2)     eNont1    rxiind (2)
DirctIw  of Tide                     1975    19e0    1913           1975      190O   1983          1975      190      1913
-m.rta                             70.2     57.3    SS.7          23.5    23.5    23.9            2.S      10.1      8.8
Iqux                              67.3      41.8    37.1           8.7      15.      17.7        21.1      41.1    41.6
/a  Rr the pdrled 1911-1990. PrIMry PiudLtta incAdg Ma-ProwAM  NOaPU pha t-Wne-
Ni Fhr   e priod 1975-19B0.  _ufaA        include  1w gooo  .
75- Projecta  q2to rtd         a a        1984 prim.
tbich 21. 1986



,aui w  lurnums mamaz 0* 3 gu    u
(11S N1ateU ML Derree Prime)
ftpe3.Uee3      139.? idill.  84.93
o    r Del cpitlo  111.110 (36
lops      396        Ina        l2s       1963        ML9       ius LL    19          Ina7      I96N        96         90
.t E.eeatm .t lead.      eAeM        -_.7U ,  -131.30    -111392    -14.78?     -6.150        345      -191    -3.783        -PU       3.031    -1.881       -73I
*wwNU  of Osej                      5.070     3.332     33.23    We112    23*89          27.902    2S.839    27.283    29,5903    33. laao    38.937     82.432
1lenr  el  asjla                   11.311    22.55       2.693     39.195     33*.29     11.918    13.35      33.13    13.343    19.038       22.083     25.1
mg knwtor h   e.                   -1.133    4.8321     -9.5s     -113.95    -10.513   -30.09    -13.43e   -31.33   -31.211   -33.888    -12.963    -11.131
(of .8 Imloreet pml             02.6           3 (.31)   (7.988  (1.3282    (9.813)   (.41111  (9.3135      (6.762    (9t023)   (9.279)   Co. no)  (9.9382
- NIWT debt)
Pat 1.-Feelr b1.vram               -1.,3    -3.120       a.6S    -3.31        -2.40?     -3105     -3.139     -2.729     -2.613    -5.379    -4.29       -3.377
OIL Treml"o                             13        tab        III        -30        3N         III       3SO          a          0         0          0          0
Dreftest "&set blmm                  4.6 U    -134311   -113.01     -13.131       .142        so?      -38      -1.711       -?03    -1.031     -1.443       .81
piroet PrIv. Invasions                 no2       1.111     3.35          "I   968           3.078       in         193        al9     1*.03      3.287     13429
r.L1T te. (1812I          *.53                  8.413       .*6       1,89g     1.223     6.28         US4      3,63       2.938      2.189     8.01       D.83
GM"  Oteh.r" te                    (89122   (11.3322   (31.0832   I8." 32  (30.9032   I3.096        30.e13    38.353     38.228     17.121     19.33      IF.aeo
AtmIiest3m,                        (2.3512    (48.11213   (7.299,   (1.8682    (35.79I3   1.538     9.131     32.870      3.3,02    33.852     38.080    38.023
UraLima L.s Abrod (Not)              -190        -27       -921       -598       1322       838         00    -3.89       -3.894    -2.073    -2.33       -2.*87
Other DepSioL (taslediwa ernror
ma  adtema)                           -71      2.882     2.550      2.168     -.n        -         -. 3 1.30     lot       4W         *83     -S4        480
chtes la aee. (- {imtsem
fseroo.)                             3.2n 2   3.39f       489       8.153         28    -.0217       -37        474        -38       -39        -997     -1.28
ltoruettio..1 bee_r. 1                5*.19     8.912      1.0OS      3.250      3.757     11.98     12.433     11.201     13.534     14.5314    13.5311   1.735
(ar mush ulpd2                         3*   1.3            1903        83        207      11o.       U.N.       %.m.   n .a.         g.1.       Qe.        e.8.
new  .  M beth. of Imporet (GM)           3.3       L.0        3.3        1.8        2.3        5.2       5.9        2.9        1.8        8.9       8.8        3.
lautersel Ceartgl mad Sltk
Orel. Diher_emeu                      8.192     11.313    16.085     38,96     30.102    Ih.0Jl      30.831     8.132    3h.228      17.122     10.132    17.880
OfIletel Orint                      -          _          _          _          _          _         *          _          _         _          _          _
Kf t _l   I_                        e tl                           lt
Dee...tealt t.w.                      302         Is        39        a5go-                          -          --                                 
08                                  117        13         17       10        -         -          -          _          -          _         _          _
0560                               -          -         -          -          _          _         _          _          _          _         _          _
168                                -         -          -          -          _          _          _         _          _          _          _         _
Otr                                  33          3         2       - 2                   _          _         _          _          _         -          _
_oC _t_meieml Lt                    *.810     11.294    18.028     38.3                  IO.U3 38.o96    I2.851  38.332  18.228     17.122     10.110    37.80
OfficIal sow  bouts                  II        6132      a63s   U 62         3.099      3.307      1.250     3.=0       3.30       3.296      I.=       1.88
two                                 230 U      83 3e                823      1.20U      i.294       790      1.40       1.713      1.339     l.U30      1.03U
Ot8   bltilatmral                  119        26        3SO        331        217        2          23        232        23         307        371       421
PrAte                             8.330     10.131    13.32      33.007      3.315    131.22      8.332     13.311    33.050      13.876     38.827    13.723
blot..!a Debt
Debt DotltaI     _  Omek d         23.483     38l 3.40  96.25      13.028     79.tO     U.813    Il.017    9n.89         9823 N,.29n    102.339    103.9
Pe lejperItey   _emmed          13.89     3.U9       * .63      89.11    38.083    89.37    91.017    91.89           94.82     go."91   1302.3      IO.99
Priwole UeemLee                   9.50     13.80      139.12     13.123    231.332     19.23     mo                         a.. s  n        m          .,M
unji.heweod ftot                    3.761     11.02B    12.U3      14.322     13.937     u3.737    13.60      34.933    15.832    I33U.       13.530     13n.u,
KiE 32916  (ZI
Inn i-lmrt/Ltol gree.
diObhermete                3.5        3.2        2.4       4.2.      11.3        8.9        7.8       8.8       30.7       20.7       30.2      10.3
RE  Uftell 0K1D                        8.7        3.7        3.8        3.7        8.8       8.5        8.8        5.7       *.7        7.8        6.2        U.7
111111ll mbt _rwLa/Lc l jel  l-rvlie    L.S       2.1       7L1         2.1       *.2        3.6        8.1        8.0       4.7        5.7        6.6        7.6
Debt Dertia
SlTot  Serole  Po7MMto 0            3.l70     I3.1IU    35.33    16.823       11.206    20.976     1I.071      31.813    22.333    22.732    23.85       23.93
Itm  OtL                          1.89      8.321      7.939      9.21       7.872     9.39       9.313      8.788      9.033     9.279      9. S"      9.53
Pays-Le em I 2m         (Mg)          3.3        38.3       60.8       71.7      46.OLf    72.3        49.2       13.3       70.0       s2a        9.S       53.7
Ahr96a ZLetereeSM eon SMDe
oremwe   Loa_  CZ) it                    5.7       12.7      35.3       32.1       11.8       33.9       9.8        9.8        9.2        1.2       9.2        9.0
O.111.                                 h.0        9.1       10.8       10.9       10.3      _*.        a.o.         ..       n.;.       .0.         _        3..
prvate seet.                             .9      13.6       18.3      13.1        321.8   _            3           ._                  ...        5.0.       3.0.
ba_rm.i Le    (leer) Lte                 9.0       9.7        9.7       10.9        9.3       9.8       10.1       11.        2.         11.3  11.5           11.3
Ofllod!                               128.8       37        12.8       13.7       12.9      a.a. _*0.             _*.        3.        *.-.        .S.         .
privet leom"                           8.9        3.9        9.0       10.2       S.        g.m        n..        e.m.      3..          *.0.     3            -.
A. 2 of Dam          NA t1
beNCrItp ftv.be of PnbUa Belt betetiUsf
Notw21  am  *lt  e 5         i Yer
3btrltm   din wils 10 yet                                   *.
?tootmm  IlteSle se Debt bl.Lmad2a
Iasrel C- _31 ,1.  first yd 1               9.m
One  Mt includ  sum sd duller "5etien  jm             t.
IMlegtum mand ae-rlo.llo, ma ="DIM mad loud Cowe jbll.
1.82r   Deot o"y for 1973.
_J.tert ma mmdf.. id leeg-term debt.
lecledm  0.17 e-rtimmlim. "oteLl? 1894.21
n..  go De ol oabla,l.brh2.30



- 30 -
ANNE= II
Page 1 of 3
TIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERA5IONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMWARY STAIEINT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1985)
Amunmt less Undis-
Loan 1  Year            Borrower                   PurpoCancelltios  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Seventy eight loarn  fully disbursed                                3,598.4
1317     1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry           83.0       25.3
1452     1977  Brazil                          Education               32.0        1.9
1488     1977  Brazil                          Rural Development       11.0        1.5
1537     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development       24.0       12.3
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                      Power                  130.0       11.9
1557     1978  Brazil                          Roads                  114.0       12.6
1568     1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension       100.0        0.5
1589     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development       37.0       13.0
1656     1979  Bunco Nacional da Babitacao     Water and Sewerage    100.0         2.7
1714     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development       26.0       15.5
1720     1979  Brazil                          Urban Develoqpment      70.0       23.4
1721     1979  COPEL                           Power                  109.0       23.0
1728     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development       40.0       20.7
1729     1979  Brazil                          Irrigation              28.0        3.7
1730-5   1979  Brazil                          Roads                  110.0       10.7
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Cbntrol       34.0       29.0
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Babitacao     Water Supply           130.0        2.9
1839     1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport        159.0       32.1
1850     1980  Bunec Nacionul da Babitacso     Water Supply           139.0       30.6
1867     1980  Brazil                          Education               32.0       15.7
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       63.0       48.5
1895     1980  ELETROSML                       Power                  125.0       86.1
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Developmnt        56.0       18.2
1939     1981  EEEIROBRAS                     Power                   54.0       42.2
1965     1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport         90.0       52.6
1970     1981  Bunco Nacionul da Babitacao     Water Supply           180.0       94.8
1989     1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Development   250.0        45.3
2015     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             29.0       15.0
2016     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             60.0        9.7
2060     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture             67.0       28.7
2061     1982  Brazil                           Wealth                 13.0        6.0
2062     1982  Brazil                          Highways               240.0       63.2
2116     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture             26.4       12.7
2138     1982 ELETROBRAS                       Power                  182.7      144.1
2163     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture             26.4       17.0
2170     1982  Brazil                          Urban Development      123.9      103.5
2177     1982  Brazil                          Rural Development       42.7       29.7
2193     1982  Brazil                          Urban Development        8.9        3.3
2196     1982  CYRD                             Iron Ore              304.5       83.3



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMNARY STMTEMENT OF LOANS (Conuetid)
(As of September 30, 1985)
Amount less  Undis-
Loan 1  Year            Borrower                   PUrpOm       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
2224     1982  Brazll                          Feeder Roads          154.0      119.1
2249     1983 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply            302.3      189.1
2268     1983  Brazil                          Agro-Industries       400.0      372.4
2269     1983  Brazil                          Rural Development      67.8       59.1
2343     1983  Brazil                          Urban Development      52.7       45.4
2347     1983  Brazil                          Export Development   352.0         0.8
2348     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture           303.0        2.0
2353     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture            65.2       60.5
1729-1   1983  Brazil                          Agriculture            7.7         7.6
2060-1   1983  Brazil                          Agriculture            22.8       22.7
2364     1983 Eletrobras                       Power                 250.6      226.6
2365     1983 Eletrobras                       Power                 222.8      155.7
2366     1983  Brazil                          Education              20.0       15.5
2412     1984 Brazil                           Education              40.0       33.7
2446     1984  Brazil                          Federal Highways      210.0      177.4
2447     1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health                 55.5       50.4
2448/1  1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health Studies           2.0        2.0
2488Tr  1985  Brazil                          Developueut Banking   300.0       300.0
2489     1985  Brazil                          Education              72.0       70.3
2523/1   1985  BrazlI                         Rural Development       61.3       61.3
25247r  1985  Brazil                           Rural Development      61.4       61.4
25327r  1985  Brazil                           Rural WS&S Pilot       16.3       16.3
25637r  1985  Brazil                          RailWays              200.0      200.0
25647r  1985  Eletrobras                      Power Transmission   400.0       400.0
2565T7  1985 Eletrobras                       Power Distribution    312.0       312.0
25937r/3 1985 Brazil                          Land Tenure            100.0      100.0
262373- 1985  State of Santa Catarina         Urban Development      24.5       24.5
Total                                              11,124.8 /2
Of which bas been repaid to the Bank                1,942.1
Total now outstanding                               9,182.7
Amount sold                             45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8           0.0
Total now held by Bank                              9,182.7
Total undisbursed                                              4,278.9
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
TY Not yet signed. (This Loan was Rigned on October 15, 1985)
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-31-
- ~ ~ ~ ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        I
Pq  3 o 3
IL smit w orIE D~UD            of(  d S f  33. Igo5
PumA                                                                                                                  in - dlm
Tow                                  ObtgLor                                   TIMet_ lbam                            spur    %rl
1957               8-m   do fto Cl . adeo 1Ii                               UaDgrDt1 nqdpt                     20        -       2.03
1958              Oldwndt. S. A. Gdul   . ?ld                               Nilp Ad _p                         1.3       -       [in
19S8               D. t L 8. Pim   do 11* S. A.                             Au m  Pa F. G4A                              -       0.4
1L98 GWOmriad do 1saI, S. A. - I-*td  a                      _,             Maw Vdidm                          Za        -       2A5
1958               gM MUaNI de ClW  io ElAd. S. A.                                                             LD        -       1.2D
193b              G.pldo  Wha1a. S. A.                                      Nip                                4.0       -       4.OD
1966/16972        Arn  imlin. S. A.                                         No.1                               6         L93    9.93
1966/1989          Pq1 e Qdual   GA .in        S. A.                         ilp ad F                          3.78     5.71    9.49
167/1972           Wtardl S. A. - im6strla a *dn de Fartiisam              FagCiIiu                          8&n       3.03    U.25
169                PI tyddm DIao. S. A.                                       _     etihdadw                   5.50     2J8      a.3
1910               PaUobcflm. S. A. Juhatda a _do                           rxudadaIu                          5J5D      2.J8   83
I971                 t. S. A. inOtrla a Cmo                P_twmim                                              4i6O     LA'6    6A
1971               Ro  CAd  - 1mp.Ua de O1ame do 9i                         Nilp                               4.90      -       4.90
11975119          S          de eba 11ml de Unt                                                               169.14    6.70   15J.
197W4/74j77AlUB1A84   G  a SdWxm   do    *   -                                 . s1                           76.97    15.2    92.L
1973               aqitmI _     No.1m Fund -                                aqaP  q   Ic _,.iot                5.W       -       5.a
1973/19M1953    q     m  de Onlv         de f        Ena  - 11 11-X. S. A.   Md1 Matg 1d bf1nkr               .sm      18.74   93.74
1S74      l        1zu1tu. 11      . S. A.                                   31M    ad Tumul a1kquI            6.03      -       6.03
1974               Farim deo k .Ado    , S. A.                                                                31.0       -      31.W
197/1979W Mv   z I               Lx1m ULt dk _.                n                  Mm                           6.1h     1.19    7.3
1975              Clxlinmbvftwte4 S. A.                                     ?aoddkm1                           lo.      -      IO.D
1976              Sta bUtdn -    il dD Iwm1n.. S. A.                                                           6.l45    1.OD    7J
1976/1980          lh     S. A. -   iE Cc dm     b do r m                   c m                                I6.       -      16.3
197               FM S. A. Pmo&xtm  CAgim m                                 Tr  ad A_Adandqp                  M.00       -      2L.
177                 t'w.  RID do hwc S. A.                                  UOD15                                        -      15i0s
1928              CWa1 S-dMMW- S. A.                                        Ire a  S se.                       8.38     3.      11.39
1979              Ni.i do RA1 etnrn a Velmlm. S. A.                         Ior  do                           60.03     5.21    65.27
1980              Hldg do 3l ae S. A. - I dim yoaka                                                            2.0       -       2.W
19                 Dude am * o      S/A -  J-  d       rui<
e Cdo  do 01      0mm                                   Citml                             3.50     1.CO    4.9)
1930               V     m.1tt1  de Noe S. A. - TIMM                        Li and Sta                         5.03      -       5.03
198D       11         - C     a 1motzA de ft1itp13in                        Oadcal and ISadin1                M10       2LW     17.0
198D              t1isr1a CWminte S. A.                                     tiba ad   _a sm1                    -       0.2S    0.5
1980                    A a  Qd4    e M1#1mi S/A                            hzdlum                           3S03      6.A    41.0W
1980                'ibliml P_umddm                                        Cmsts  d Ptcndasm                  3.0      5.03   48.X0
nu1                kad.p                                                    3Y ad aqdzaB  q                    1 -      1.5D    L5D
198               Omqadia _ia1m de  p.o=acla - IMd ad Nd                                                       5.50     3D.0   IL95
1981              7zuauo                                                    Oadmiu ad   !dbdadm               460       4.D    9).D
on1                C1o- RIE                                                0c  ad  @am                        xabta  0m    5,m  4sm
1912              ApilinlS LA. IAqF Ewtl                                                                      3.03      0.45    3D.45
IS83       Q       3m Rad.m    de 1t     pi  (aRr)                         PIt. _trl  Ikl          ,                      M       .M
1903              Aim Fdgodfiin                                             Nd ad Fot Pmow 13A                          -       ll.D
1913               De       da  doAp (OMA)                                  Pal i                              6.10     -        6.10
1983               F   - ftpel deo Iqa  LA.                                 IRlp & ?w  ntuboa                 80.0      5s.v  .V17
1983               SMaaaSmJ                                                 Paod ad Nd                         3.0      2.5 S     .5D
1983               CDC                                                      ot ad   Om sm  iadala             3S.OD   -         3.0D
198'               Cadia A1.-lam  fdm1                                      Cmacm ad   _dls                   3.03      4.3    28.W
1911QShd  do Bda_                                                            odluo ad Ftmod=mls                3.03   111        4.D
ibral C~ Cbwd g. 9D 0.73 1J.M95
Im Cm 1_Um          1mzn1l. F1qwtm d Sdm                                          670.15    15.:   65.73
Td by 3C                                                           2.11    85.15   367.M
msin   _ 1hmd                                                                      63.8     1.75   7453
O    r22. 1985



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
BRAZIL
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Elements
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 1 year
(b) Agency which prepared the project: CONDER
(c) First presentation to the Bank: May 1984
(d) First mission to review project: November 1984
(e) Appraisal mission: July/August 1985
(f) Negotiations: December 1985
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: May 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Loan Conditions
(a) Signature of Partlcipation Agreements by the State and each of the five
smaUl municipalities included in the project, setting forth the
procedures for executing components in accordance with the Manual of
Lending Policies and Procedures acceptable to the Bank would be a
condition of disbursement to each municipality (para. 47);
(b) Signature of FEREH Subloan Agreements by the State and each executing
agency (each municipality and CONDER) setting forth a description of
the component to be financed by the subloan, repayment terms (including
collateral) and cost recovery arrangements acceptable to the Bank would
be a condition of disbursement for each component (para. 47);
(c) Signature of a BNH-Camagari Convenio would be a condition of
disbursement for components in Camacari (para. 49);
(d) Salvador setting prices for industrial and commercial lots, and
Salvador, Cmagari and Candeias setting rents for market stalls at
levels satisfactory to the Bank to allow recovery of capital investment
cost would be conditions of disbursement (para. 56);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Salvador putting into effect a schedule of charges to cover solid waste
collection to industrial and commercial users and CONDER putting Into
effect charges to fully recover landfill costs would be conditions of
disbursement of the solid waste component (para. 57);
(f) Municipalities of Salvador and Camacari to luplement multi-year
financial plans which would be reviewed annually by CONDER and which
would include annual financial targets for debt service coverage,
contributions to capital outlays, annual increases In revenues from
IPTU, ISS and solid waste collection charges (paras. 57-58); and
(g) CONDER to complete its evaluation and provide technical assistance to
define action programs satisfactory to the Bank to strengthen finances
of municipalities other than Salvador and Camagari by end September
1986 (para. 58).
2. Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Borrower would establish a project account in the Banco do Brasil on
behalf of its Ministry of Urban Development and the Environment to
finance the metropolitan areas' component and CONDER would establish
two project accounts in FEREM: one for the purposes of making
subloans, and the second for providing grants for technical assistance
(paras. 45 and 48);
(b) Execution of a Subsidiary Lo'n Agreement satisfactory to the Bank to
transfer the proceeds of the loan to the State of Bahia and of a
Convenio between MDU/SDU and the State setting forth the arrangements
for supervising and nonitoring the project (paras. 45 and 51);
(c) Signature of a BNH Convenio between the State and BNE and an Operating
Agreement by CONDER and DESENBANCO setting forth the conditions for
administering FEREM satisfactory to the Bank including loan portfolio
management and training of CONDER staff by DESENBANCO (paras. 48-49);
and
(d) Amendment of FEREM's Regulations by the State to include financial
criteria satisfactory to the Bank for operating FEREM and managing
its assets (para. 54).



30-45'                                              38r3D                                               3R115'
-Ir30r
r. 5anle Amra,                                               DIAS
SAO                     Ta F.r, do Saaliu.a           DTAVILA>Sao JoG.
FRANCISCO'
DO C'ONDE
z    <   dA  A   ^  _     :  SA                                EIA
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~CR
I                       iJ y -----__ M_S
BAIA         E D     TQD0S 
-  ITAP IC
VALE D                            ~/ A TL ANT:
ToLNao.../     -     CRLJ_          -
0        0                           20
KILOMETERS
\ , _ g _ -   -  Ihr_ ...........  n                      -                               3



8IRD 19298R
wis                                          aaod ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -._VLNEZULELArJ GUAN
COLOMBIA                      C H (FRE,N GUIANA
~j>                          ATlANTICOCA'
2   {-5.   J  2\ ,22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1230'- ! 
i,~~~ -, 4S
BRAZIL
To MoadeA                                                                                                           BRASILIA.     s-..
S o Jaa                                                                                                                                MOP,-
'I'                                             de To     D        PA .. - (                                      rnh
-   {                                                                                         j                                          XARGENIINA
~~~ ~~~~' ~~~CAMACARI                                                                          (j,.ATLANrIC OEN"
-                                                             1U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUGUkY
/'CAMACARI                                                           SALVADOR METROPOLITAN
'2'                                                    ~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
2.                                                         |                              \ ,, PROJECT COMPONENTS,                       1 d
UPGRADING:
'  UPGRADING OF LOW INCOME AREAS
Bf) BSIC SANITATION IMPROVEMENT AREAS
INFRASTRUCTURE NEW PRIMARY ROADS
t. '   /S,,<e.>                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~MUNI:'IPAL SERVIaESz  .- 
0    SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATIONS
A    SOLID WASTE LANDFILL SITES
I                                             0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARKE-TS
PRODUCTIVE ACTIVITIES-
,    COMMERCIAL SITE
,,                                                                        C    INDUSTRIAL SITE                                 4
JjMM  TECHNICAt ASSISTANCE FOR HISTORIC CENTER
EXISTrNG FEATURES:
A    T  1. A    N    T iC                                                     URBAN AREAS,
F' EXISTING
PROJECTED EXPANSION 11985.2000;
O      E  A  N                                                          INDUSTRIAL AREAS:
EXISTING
PROJECTED EXPANSION (1985-70W0           -      .  s
OPEN AREAS                                    13'00
PRIMARY ROADS*
EXISTING
*--  PROPOSED11985-2000)
-  -LIMIT OF SALVADOR METROPOLITAN REGION
^^"MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                - -
-  NATIONAL CAPITAL
STATE BOUNDARY
--- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
38'-15                                                         38,;00 
JANUARY 1986






