Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18007
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THE STATE OF BAHIA
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2681-BR)
June 18, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Unit
Country Management Unit 5
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distri,bution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosQd without
World Bank authorization.



FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
STATE OF BAHIA
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = Brazilian Real (R$)
USS1 = R$1.05 (as of July 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS
BNH                -      Banco Nacional da Habitacao
(National Housing Bank)
CONDER             -      Companhia de Desenvolvimento da Regiao Metropolitana
(Salvador Metropolitan Development Agency)
EMBASA             -      Empresa Bahiana de Aguas e Saneamento
(Bahia State Water Company)
FEREM              -      Fundo Especial de Equipamento da Regiao Metropolitana
de Salvador
(Salvador Metropolitan Development Fund)
IPTU               -      Imposto Predial e Territorial Urbano
(Urban Property Tax)
MDU                -      Ministerio de Desenvolvimento Urbano e Meio Ambiente
(Ministry of Urban Development and the Environment)
SEPLAN             -      Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Presidential Planning Secretariat)
SEPLANTEC          -      Secretaria de Planejamento, Ciencia e Teenologia do
Estado da Bahia
(Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology of the
State of Bahia)
SUDENE             -      Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Northeast Development Superintendency)
URBIS              -      Habitacao e Urbanizacao, S.A.
(Bahia State Housing and Urban Development Company)
Vice President                     Shahid Javed Burki
CNU Director                      Gobind Nankani
LCSFP Director                    Danny Leipziger
Task Manager                      Braz Menezes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                    .3
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                              .0
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABLlTY .11
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .12
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .13
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .16
H. FUTURE OPERATION .16
I. KEY LESSON'S LEARNED .17
PART 1H: STATISTICALTABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..........................................................................  20
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..........................................................................  21
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ..........................................................................  22
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMRULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (US$ MILLION .................. 23
TABLE 5: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION' INDICATORS AT APPRAISAL AND AFTER AMENDMET ............. 24
TABLE 5.A:KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION .............. ....................... 32
TABLE 5 .B: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION ................ 33
TABLE 5.C: GRAPHS SHOWING KEY INDICATORS ..........................................................................  34
TABLE 6:PROJECT COST .............................................................. ,      37
TABLE 6A: DETAILS OF MAIN SUB-COMPONENTS .37
TABLE 7: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .46
TABLE 8: PROJECT FINANCING .55
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .56
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .57
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .58
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .59
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .60
Appendixes:
A-BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON BANK DRAFT ICR .Appendix A
B- ASSESSMENT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .Appendix B
C- MAP.Appendix C
lrhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
F World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THE STATE OF BAH[A
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2681-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Salvador
Metropolitan Development Project in Bahia, Brazil, for which Loan 2681-BR, in the
amount of US$55 million equivalent was approved on 4/22/86 and made effective on
5/18/87.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1997, 11 years after Board approval and 2.5
years beyond the original closing date of December 31, 1994. An amount of US$ 18.4
million was canceled on December 10, 1991. Final disbursement took place on August 31,
1997, at which time a balance of US$ 3.22 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Braz Menezes (Task Manager) from the Finance,
Private Sector and Infrastructure Department (LCSFP). Surhid Gautam (LCC5A)
prepared most of the statistical tables. Roy Gilbert prepared the economic evaluation in
Table: 9. Jose Herdoiza and Barbara Woodard helped in the production. The ICR was
reviewed by Cecile Ramsay (LCS5C) and Maria Vitoria Lister (LCSFP). The borrower
provided its own assessment of the project that is included as Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR was begun three months after loan closing (6/30/97)
following a reassignment of the previous task manager. It is based on a draft project
completion report prepared by CODNDER, the executing agency on behalf of the
Borrower, which is available in the project file; materials in the Bank project files; visits to
the field and discussions with project institutions. The borrower also contributed to the
preparation of the ICR with organization of site visits and meetings, and has commented
on a draft of the ICR. The current ICR takes into account the comments made by the
borrower.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Metropolitan Region of Salvadlor (MRS), an area located in the Northeast state of
Bahia, grew from a primarily agriculture-based region into a diverse industrial economy
over the past five decades. In conamon with all metropolitan areas in the country, the
MRS and its 2.8 million inhabitants were at the time of project preparation, overwhelmed
by the rapid growth of slums (favelagao) in urban centers, inadequacies of waste
management, inadequate transport and other infrastructure, and with no tools for
managing metropolitan land use and fiscal resources.
Project Objectives
The project was designed to support increased economic productivity in the MRS and to
strengthen the financial capacity of the region's agencies in order to provide better living
conditions for the population. These broad objectires were consolidated in a Loan
Amendment in 1992, but with a clearer focus on immediate priorities for investment: (a)
implementing an area-wide solid waste management system; (b)improvements in basic
sanitation, slum upgrading and recovery of major urban parks; and (c) tools, training and
studies aimed improvement in municipal management, as well as stimulating the upgrading
of Salvador's historic center.
Project Implementation
Loan 2682-BR was approved on April 22, 1986, and became effective on May 18, 1997.
The original closing date was December 31, 1994, but this was then postponed three
times; the final closing date was June 30, 1997. The total project cost is calculated at
US$77.Om of which US$36.4m (47%) were financed through the Bank loan.
Project implementation took 10 years from loan signing, well above the average of 6
years, for the sector. The uncertain macro-economic situation, high inflation, numerous
stabilization plans until the arrival of the 1994 Plano Real, complicated project
management. Federal counterpart funds were not available. The 1988 Constitution
changed the political rules of the game. Greater autonomy was given municipalities and
States. The Federal role was diminished. Revenue sharing formulas were altered. The
institutional structure at the federal level in respect of urban planning and policy was in a
constant state of transformation (extinction, mergers, restructuring, renaming) with eight
different Ministries in 10 years from 1985-95 responsible for urban policy and programs.
At the request of the federal government and the State, responsibility of counterpart funds
and execution was transferred to the State of Bahia in 1992.



ii
Project Results
The project's institutional development objectives were substantially achieved.
CONDER, the principal executing agency, emerged as a competent metropolitan planning
and development agency. A GIS-based Metropolitan Information System (INFORMS)
has been implemented. Land use definition covering 350 square km within the MRS, a
property tax cadaster for all properties, a business (economic) cadaster, and an updated
mapping program will greatly support better metropolitan management through improved
and accurate information. Benefits are expected to increase taxes, reduce tax-evasion
(addresses were often non-existent or difficult to find), improve land use controls, and
reduce transaction costs for all persons living and working in the MRS. With a total of
US$13.8 million invested in the Institutional Development component, the results offered
a high rate of return in terms of human resource capacity and sustainability of policy
implementation.
The project's financial objectives were partially achieved.  While the on-lending
arrangements through FEREM were dropped due to the highly inflationary environment
and the inability of the federal government to meet its commitments, the overall financial
performance of municipalities indicate that advancements have already been made. The
implementation of training and subsequent improvements in tax-collection methods have
increased the per-capita tax generation in MRS. The number of IPTU (property) taxpayers
increased from 10,800 to about 16,000. Collection in MRS was R$120.Om in 1997;
expected to be R$175.6m in 1998 (46.33% increase) and estimated to reach R$275.5m in
1999. The MRS contributes 65% of the State's revenues.
The physical objective achievement was substantial. One of the principle investments, the
Metropolitan Solid Waste Management (SWM) project, now permits 80% collection and
disposal of about the 3000 tons/day waste generated in the MRS. Cost recovery policies
are finally in place and working R$7.6m was collected in first quarter of 1998. An
additional R$600,000/month is expected from a surcharge on industrial and commercial
users. The State of Bahia was presented the Ecology Top 96 award due to the
environmental and health benefits derived from the SWM's collection and transportation
solutions. The Basic Sanitation and Urban Recovery Program, has been successfully
implemented and is being expanded through follow-up programs. The Novos Alagados,
project is attempting a multi-sectoral and integrated set of actions on physical, social,
econornic and environmental recovery of an area with about 13000 families. Six urban
parks have be cleared of illegal invasions, families satisfactorily resettled, garbage cleared
out, parks rehabilitated and refurbished. Community participation, and the involvement of
the private sector are no longer novelties in the process of development in the MRS. Re-
estimates of internal ERRs of a sample of sub-projects was higher than at appraisal or at
the time of loan reformulation: basic sanitation 17.4%/ 16.4% before; favela upgrading
24.6% as compared to 16,0% before. Project Sustainability is likely.



iii
Bank Performance
The Bank's performance was satisfactory in preparation and appraisal, particularly as it
helped in the institutional strengthening of the involved state agencies. Supervision was
satisfactory for intensity and commnitment. However the high turnover of TMs (5) may
have added to delays and compromised continuity. Throughout good relations were
maintained between Bank staff and Borrower. High marks also for assistance on
resettlement policy and implementation. Decentralization of supervision from HQ to field
in 1994 was positively received.
Borrower Performance
The overall performance of the BorTower was satisfactory. Although the performance of
the State, Participating Municipalities and of CONDER were all negatively affected
initially, performance improved substantially after loan reformulation, especially in the
provision of counterpart funds and maintaining project priority. Some periods of tension
existed between the State and the Municipality of Salvador /municipal relation when the
administrations were political opponents. The impartial and highly technical posture of
CONDER was particularly important minimizing delays due to such conflict.
CONDER's performance was satisfactory in preparation; satisfactory in implementation,
but deficient in compliance with the bank's procurement and audit standards. In 1990 and
1992 there were problems with procurement leading eventually to a de-facto cancellation
by reduction of the scope of the project by $18,4m. Also CONDER has consistently had
problems in obtaining un-qualified audit reports.
Assessment of Outcome
Given the difficult start, mitigated by an impressive recovery after 1992, the overall
project rating is satisfactory. The benefits in terms of a metropolitan-wide solid waste
management system that works are unquestionable, and could provide a model for other
metropolitan regions in Brazil. The! benefits of basic sanitation and urban recovery sub-
projects, modeled after Novos Alagados, are likely to be substantial. The installation and
operation of the GIS-based INFORMS though not generally visible to the public is
expected to result in substantial efficiency gains in metropolitan management. The impact
of sub-components onpoverty and environment through SWM, basic sanitation and favela
upgrading are rated as substantial.
Summary of Findings and Future Operations
Performance indicators to monitor and evaluate project results and their sustainability
were not developed or followed during project supervision. Sufficient data exists that can
be reconstructed for follow-up in the future.



iv
The economic transformation of the MRS (a result of broader government policies)
reflected in part by the priority given to improved management of the MRS. This has been
particularly visible over the past 5 years, and has help attract major foreign direct
investment (FDI). Salvador may be displacing Recife as the regional capital of Brazil's
Northeast. The State's commitment to institutional strengthening, to improved
management of its urban areas, appears solid; the continuity of policies through
administrational changes have remained consistent. On-going follow-up projects already
in place will continue to expand activities initiated under the Salvador Metropolitan
Development Project.
Key Lessons Learned
The project provided several important lessons (some already known, but worth
repeating) for metropolitan development operations in Brazil:
* Political Will and Project Ownership are fundamental for success.
O  Investment in Human Resources capacity building yields high returns
o  Managing Partnerships in urban development with a number of political, financial,
economic interests is a pre-requisite for any metropolitan development or coordination
3  Over-ambitious scope, an inadequately designed institutional framework, and complex
external economic, political, and institutional factors all contribute to a problem and
failure
*  Multi-jurisdictional institution arrangements substantially increase risks that inevitably
cause project delays.
-  Metropolitan wide operations are probably best addressed through a first "quick and
dirty" adaptable loan instrument, that has a lot of flexibility, encourages learning by
doing, and prepare the ground for sub-sector specific operations (transport, water)
when the time is right.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THE STATE OF BAHIA
SALVADOR METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(:Loan 2681-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background-The Project in Context
1.    The Metropolitan Region of Salvador (MRS), with 10 municipalities and about 2.8
million inhabitants, and among the most densely settled urban areas in Brazil, has grown
from a primarily agricultural econonmy less than 50 years ago, into a bustling industrial
economic and tourist destination in the Northeast of Brazil. In common with all
metropolitan areas in the country, it is characterized by rapid growth of slums
(favelizacao) in urban centers, generally uncontrolled land use, a lack of basic sanitation,
the non existence of solid waste management, clogged drainage systems, environmental
pollution, degraded open spaces and nature parks.
2.    In the early 80's, Brazil's Ministry of the Interior (MINTER) initiated programs of
special attention to alleviate poverty in the Northeast region, and address the problems of
rapid growing metropolitan areas. Working in tandem with the NE development agency
(SUDENE), different sectoral "pilot' interventions were planned in both rural and urban
areas. Up to this time there had been no serious Bank sector work in Brazil'
3.    The Salvador Metropolitan Development Project (Project) was the last urban
sector loan prepared before the return of democratic government in Brazil in 1985. The
project was finally closed in June, 1997--a span of 12 years that saw Brazil's political,
macro-economic and social framework undergo a complete transformation, with a
consequent turmoil of the institutional framework at all three levels of government--
federal, state and municipal.
4.    The precursor to  the  Project was the FortalezalSalvador Metropolitan
Development Programs Preparation (Ln 2193-BR), a Technical Assistance loan
(US$5.6m) with the main objectives being to prepare programs and projects for the
Salvador/Bahia and Fortaleza/Ceara, Metropolitan Regions, and to strengthen
metropolitan planning agencies in both MRs. That project was rated overall as
"satisfactory', and closed in 1985. The PCR's2 findings summarized were (i) a cost
effective engineering project is a valuable instrument to test borrower ownership and
l World Bank, Operations Evaluation Depantment. Report No. 16736: "One Bank Strategy victim of the
dismantling of the federal aparatus was the 1987 Urban Development in the Northeast paper, which
called for closer attention to economic growth in the region. The paper argued that poverty targeting per
se was not a sufficient condition to justify Bank investment. Federal government retrenchment interrupted
Bank urban activities, leaving the approach proposed by this paper untested."
2 Ibid: Report No. 16736 dated June 17,1997-Operations Evaluation Department
Ii



2
commitment; (ii) Salvador demonstrated more ownership than Fortaleza; and (iii)
implementation has to be flexible to adapt and adjust to changing macro policy imperatives
in Brazil--lessons that in hindsight--apparently were not fully absorbed into the new
project's design.
A. Project Objectives
5.    According to the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2), the Salvador Metropolitan
Development Project had 3 main objectives:
(i) to strengthen metropolitan management in the Salvador Metropolitan Region by
improving the allocation and mobilization of available resources;
(ii) strengthen municipal financial capacity by means of improved financial management,
cost reduction and increased municipal cost recovery, thus easing the demand for state and
federal transfers; and
(iii) improve and develop more adequate infrastructure and municipal services in the MRS
to support increased economic productivity and provide better living conditions to the
population of the region.
6.    In order to support these broad objectives, a number of diverse institutional
development initiatives (studies, TA and equipment), and a large number of varied
physical investmnents were to be financed under the project. The spectrum included
upgrading the headquarters of the executing agency (CONDER) and payment of staffing
and administrative costs,  preparation of city maps, GIS based cadasters and a
metropolitan area database, training in financial management and administration to
municipalities, training in low-cost sanitation, training of stall-holders in accounting
procedures, hygiene and marketing of produce; and studies for the rehabilitation and
development of Salvador's now famous historical and cultural district of Pelourinho.
7.    Physical investments included: about 23 low-income settlements (11 in Salvador
and 12 in Camacari) to be up-graded (basic sanitation, drainage, paving, community
facilities, including daycare centers, clothes washing facilities, shops and other facilities--
and the regularization of land tenure; 11 kms of a primary road infrastructure in Salvador,
solid waste collection equipment, transfer stations (3), landfill sites (4) and treatment, a
building materials production plant (mainly bricks), rehabilitation of markets (3) and
construction of new markets in Salvador (3) and in other municipalities. The scope of
works, before and after the Loan Amendment of February 1992, and as implemented, is
summarized in Section II. Table 5.



3
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    During its first several years the project suffered slow implementation due largely
to lack of federal government (GOB) counterpart funds and weak institutional capacity of
the Executing Agency (CONDER)3. It was also a time of complex macro-economic and
socio-political change in Brazil as described below.
9.    In February, 1992, the Loan Agreement was amended to reflect a reformulation of
the project at the request of the Borrower. The purpose was to simplify the project, to
transfer responsibility for counterpart funding from the GOB to the state and municipal
governments, and to increase Bank participation from about 37% to about 47% of total
project costs, while maintaining the project's overall development objectives.
10.   With the modifications all of the original sub-components were retained, with the
exception of the metropolitan management component (Part G--to prepare similar projects
in other regions of Brazil), investments for which never began. Of the original sub-
components, four high-priority sub-components were financed by the Bank loan: (a) solid
waste (including master plan and investments) -US$33.0 million; (b) basic sanitation -
US$4.9 million; (c) institutional development - US$13.8 million; and (d) historic center
(study on commercial use and financing sources) for US$0.8 million. The rest of the
components were completed solely with local counterpart funds.
Project Results and Achievement of Objectives
11.   An assessment of the results is made on the basis of the loan as amended, and not
on the original project, as the institutional, political and economic environment had
changed significantly.
Institutional Development Componient (Substantial)
12.   Objective (i) to strengthen metropolitan management: A total of US$13.8 million
has been invested in this sub-component that includes TA, equipment, training: to
CONDER on project planning and management; to nine metropolitan municipalities on
financial and administrative managernent including programming and budgeting; to the
Municipality of Salvador for restructuring and up-dating the cadaster, improving property
tax (IPTU) assessments and collection; and miscellaneous studies for the historic center of
Pelourinho. The most important of these is the metropolitan level information system
which has three sub-components:
(a) a GIS-based Metropolitan Information System (INFORMS) has completely
computerized the investments made in the system, since implementation of the project
3The project's task manager (IM) was reassigned soon after Board approval. The new TM's back-to-
office report, on only the project's second supervision mission had recommended simplification of the
project "..the multiplicity ofproject objectives and the complexity of its design seemed to out-distance the
institutional capacity of CONDER, the executing agency".



4
started, and its database has been significantly updated and enlarged to implement the
Metropolitan Information System, the Metropolitan Technical Registry, the Digital
Cartography Information in CONDER and several municipalities. In addition, a major
program to train CONDER staff was undertaken in parallel as well as a program for
disemination of information and some training for employees of other agencies, using the
system.
13.   The creation of a common database accessible to all public and private agents that
work in MRS is intended to achieve efficiency in eliminating wasted resources and
duplication of effort, inconsistencies on fundamental economic and land-use data. A
consolidation of INFORMS and enlargement of its database is currently underway with
the State's own resources.
(b) The Metropolitan Technical Management Cadaster is a tool for strengthening
the management and financial capacity of municipalities. An important part of INFORMS,
it is one of the most important operational components of this program, aimed at setting
up property registration, common coordinates, and cadaster of economic activities in the
municipalities of MRS, in a manner to enable each municipality with the necessary tools
for their management and planning.
14.   The MRS is notorious among all metropolitan cities in Brazil in that postal and
locational addresses are "incomprehensible" and therefore encourage tax evasion and
greatly increased transaction costs for the metropolitan economy. The greatest benefit
from this sub-component is the establishment of a unique addressing method for all the
MRS, enabling the immediate determination of any property. Besides being of interest in
the tax collection effort, it is already being used by other agencies, including the water and
sewerage, electrical and telephone concession services. It has an extremely high potential
for economic return, since besides the above, immediate access to a regularly up-dated,
digital and integrated graphics through geo-processing tools, facilitates not only the
planning and collection activities, but also the investments in infrastructure and urban
services.
(c) a third sub-component implemented under the ID component is the Digital
Cartographic Project, which consolidates and updates mapping and cartography of the
MRS. Previous aerial photo-measurements were done between 1976 and 1980, and are
thus very out of date. An area of about 350 square kilometers (the continental portion of
the Salvador's municipality and the municipality of Lauro de Freitas) has been completed.
15.   This translates in the case of Salvador for example, a GIS-based register in the first
phase4 of about 15,700 common land areas, 146,000 residential properties and 15,000
(non-residential) economic units, that will allow improved monitoring of the immediate
localization of change (legal as well as un-authorized). This is geared to a greater
efficiency in urban management, particularly in relation to tax effort, public services of
planning and operation, and the control of the use and occupation of land.
4focused on the central area - a high tax base



5
16.   In  addition, technical assistance and studies were financed in a broad area of
activities in connection with policies and plans for the other components including in solid
waste management and the historic center. A summary of studies undertaken and their
impact is listed in Table 7 of Part II.
17.   Finally, an important contribution financed through the ID component of the
project, was a series of studies and a programn of technical assistance (TA) to the
historical center of Salvador (Pelourinho). The studies were undertaken jointly with
UNESCO's contribution of expertise and experience in historical preservation. The State's
leadership in recuperating and transforming the Pelourinho district, was an outstanding
initiative. It created a new urban space for economic activity, leisure and culture.
CONDER had the important role of preparing studies and planning actions to identify
new investment opportunities in the area.
18.   From  an institutional point of view, CONDER  emerged as a competent
metropolitan planning and developmnent agency (at the technical level). As a direct
outcome of the project it developed two important areas of technical excellence: an expert
technical team on solid waste residues; and the GIS base of MRS - INFORMS, enabling
the creation of a database of essential importance to the region's urban planning, and
related decisive processes at governmental and the private sector.
Financial Objectives (Partial)
19.   Objective (ii) to strengthen municipal financial capacity: When the project
started, it was intended that (for the first time) that part of the proceeds of the Bank loan,
together with loans from the Federal Housing Bank (BNH-later merged into CEF)) would
be onlent as subloans by the state through a revolving fund--the Salvador Metropolitan
Development Fund (FEREM)5--to the municipalities and CONDER. Previously
investments in the MRS had been grant-financed.
20.   The municipalities would in turn achieve 100% cost recovery of the proposed
investments financed by the Bank, from measures included in their financial plans of
action. The municipalities would cover debt service, operations and maintenance by
increases in existing revenues direcitly attributable to the project and reforms in their
financial plans (user charges, IPTU, ISS, etc.). The project also assisted with technical
assistance to municipalities, and with the updating of the tax cadaster and other measures
as noted above. The results are mixedl.
21.   On-lending through FER EM:   The on-lending arrangements were dropped
following the loan amendment. The highly inflationary environment and the inability of the
federal government to meet its counterpart fund commitments, made this fundamental
strategy inoperable. FEREM continiues to exist, largely as a vehicle for managing
S Created in 1973 (Lei 3.192) to complement a federal law (#14) to finance investments in designated
Metropolitan Regions. FEREM's operating rules were approved in 1974 with CONDER as manager.



6
CONDER's loans. In 1996 and 1997 FEREM budget represented about 49% and 55% of
CONDER's budget respectively.
22.   Overall financial performance of municipalities in the M:RS: The period of
project implementation coincided with a decade of particularly complex changes in the
macro-economic and financial sector which included four stabilization plans and changes
in currency. Annual inflation prior to the Real stabilization plan of July 1994, averaged
over 1000%, exceeding 2000% in 1993. The New Constitution of 1988 also increased the
municipal share of federal transfers. Furthermore municipalities in general balanced their
books and coped with inflation by a number of devices centered around an astute
manipulation of "overnight" interest rate gains on deposits, as well as delaying payments
to contractors.
23.   Project design also did not include a clear and coherent monitoring system of
performance by municipalities, as was developed for later projects in Brazil after 1988 (see
Table 2. Part II). There is also little evidence on the files, that supervision missions paid
much attention to this issue. It is difficult therefore to evaluate what effect if any, was due
to improvements in their administrative systems and financial and budget management.
24.   A number of indicators on the financial performance of Project Municipalities are
shown in Tables 5A  5.B. and 5C of Part II. There was a significant increase in revenues
from 1994, partly as a result of the Real Plan. This is particularly true for Salvador, where
the results are more significant than for all the other municipalities combined. There is also
a clear evidence that the per-capita tax generation has improved. This can be attributed to
improved data, tax-collection effort and training.
25.   The full impact of the new cadaster in the case of Salvador is expected initially
during FY98. For example, according to technical sources working on the cadaster, the
Municipality had only 10,800 taxpayers registered, which increased by an additional 4,945
taxpayers. The collection for IPTU for 1997 was R$120.Om; the estimated IPTU for 1998
is expected to reach R$175.6m--an increase of 46.33%. It is also calculated that if all the
municipality area is covered by December 1998, the IPTU revenues for 1999 could reach
R$275.5m6.
26.   Cost Recovery: Municipalities have also under the project introduced cost-
recovery. For solid waste for example, after numerous previous attempts to introduce user
charges for SWM, the municipality of Salvador successfully approved legislation to initiate
collection starting in January 1998. It has been reported that in the first 3 months, a total
of approximately R$ 7.6m has been collected. In addition a supplementary charge for
industrial and commercial users generates about R$600,000/month. Other municipalities,
which had already introduced a taxa de limpeza publica (SWM fees as a benefit tax)
collected as part of the property tax, have now switched to direct billing for solid waste
services.
6 The Bank will continue to monitor the performance of the Municipality of Salvador through the on-
going Bahia Municipal Development Project (Ln. 4140-BR).



7
Physical Objectives (Substantial)
27.   Objective (iii) to improve municipal services in the MRS andprovide better living
conditions to the population of the region. Physical targets substantiafly exceeded
expectations. For practical purposes, the project's final scope of works and timetable was
defined during the project reformulation and loan amendment of February 1992. Table 5.
Section II, sets out physical targets as planned and achieved, and 6.A. Section II outlines a
brief description of the scope of the principle investments.
28.   In summary these include: (a) Metropolitan Solid Waste Management (SWM)
(43% of total project costs).The MRS generates over 3000 tons/day, of which about 85%
was disposed in un-sanitary landfills (open waste dumps), host to thousands of
"scavengers" (catadores) who searched in order to survive. The collection and disposal
was not accompanied by any technical or environmental controls, with consequent high
health risks to the population, and severe degradation of the environment particularly
through contamination of rivers and other water resources.
29.   Implementation included metropolitan and municipal master plans focused on the
technical, organizational, institutional and financial management of SWM services, and
were used to guide implementation. A segregated system was implemented which focuses
on most cost-effective technology. Collection and transport of residential waste, hospital
waste, rubbish, tree pruning ("podacao") are duly separated. From the separated
collection, the SWM program guides the municipalities to achieve, over a medium or long
term, and in a gradual manner, the segregation of trash at the source, separating the
recyclable materials, the biodegradable and the inert (passive). The project financed the
equipment necessary to implement the program, as well as staff and community training
and other aspects of ID related to the sector.
30.   Of the four built under the project, the Integrated Landfill of Camacari-Dias
D'Avila has been operating normally fbr over a year. A special management operation was
carried out to guarantee the beginning of performance within the most efficient services
standard possible. Still in pre-operational stage, under the responsibility of CONDER, are
the landfills: Metropolitan Center, Ferrolho and Ilha Integrada, which will cover the
remaining municipalities of the MRS. A supplementary program was implemented on
environmental education which mobilized communities in the region and promoted the
adoption of new behaviors concerning urban cleanliness.
31.   Environmental education, initially of an abstract concept for the most part of the
population, is nowadays effectively incorporated through actions and practices, in the daily
routine of thousands of residents in the municipalities in the MRS. Complementing this
environmental education work, CONDER promoted, in Salvador, two technical meetings
on the question - the International Symposium of Garbage Destination, from November 28
through 30, 1994. Main issues discussed emphasized the technical and operational
aspects; and the 2nd Symposium of Garbage Destination, which took place in June 18-20,



8
1997, which prioritized aspects relating to the management of systems in the final
destination of urban garbage.
32.   The State of Bahia, through CONDER, was awarded the Ecology Top 96, one of
the most important environmental awards in Brazil. The award represented recognition for
the innovative character of the program, for the final disposition of solid waste in the
MRS, and for its publications on the technical s aspects, its solution through the shared
management of the sanitary landfill, thus creating an extra-municipal solution for the
problem. This project was also selected to be presented at the VI Iberian-American
Congress of Solid Waste Residues in Madrid, in November 1996.
(b) Basic Sanitation and Urban Recovery Program: About 25% of project costs
(US$18.9m) were allocated for basic sanitation (favela up-grading) and some resettlement,
in three river basins; the environmental recovery and social promotion of Novos Alagados;
and the rehabilitation of water-metering system (micro-measurement). In addition, the
recovery of 6 urban parks and recreation areas, and maintenance in ten metropolitan
municipalities, were financed under the project.
Urban Recovery in Novos Alagados Area
33.   The environmental recovery and social promotion of Novos Alagados is treated
with special importance, because it represents the model that the Government of Bahia
considers the most appropriate for the urbanization of slums and recovery of degraded
areas. The intervention in the area of Novos Alagados involves a broad scope of
integrated and complementary initiatives focused on the physical-environmental recovery,
social promotion and eradication of shacks, including urbanization works, infrastructure
and basic sanitation, habitation and sanitary improvement, ownership legalization and
construction of habitation units to relocate families, besides the environmental education
programs and training of some manual-workers.
34.   The Novos Alagados Project, now in an advanced stage of execution, has as one
of the main objectives the eradication of "shacks" build on wooden posts (palafitas),
where about 40 percent of more than 13 thousand inhabitants of the area lived in
degrading social and environmental conditions. The strategy contemplated the
construction of two adjacent developments: AracAs I and Aragcs II, with brick shelters
comprising one living room, bedroom, kitchen, sanitary installations and serving quarters.
More than 300 families have already been relocated. Special emphasis was given to the
environmental aspects, and to specific strategies of social promotion through employment
and income generation projects--actions geared to reinforce the economy of the families
living in the area. The landscape of the "mini-bay" is starting to change in a significant way
(see photos in appendix).
35.   Because of its innovative integrated and multi-faceted approach to social
development "The Environmental and Social Promotion Project of Novos Alagados", was



9
selected as one Brazil's submissions at the World Conference for Human Settlements -
HABITAT 2, in Istanbul, Turkey, in June 1996.
(c) Low Income Settlement anid Urban Maintenance: With the main objective of
serving the low-income population in local basic infrastructure (paving roads,
implementing stairways, drainage, water supply network, sewerage sanitation, public
lighting), offers of common equipment (construction of schools, nurseries and health
rooms) and recovery of degrading areas, six actions in six neighborhoods in Salvador were
implemented (Alto da Capelinha, Boa Vista de Sao Caetano, Campinas de Brotas,
Engenho Velho da Federacao and Sertlanejo).
(d) Recovery of Urban Parks: Aklthough not envisioned at the time of project
appraisal, the State government through CONDER embarked on an imaginative and much
needed program to save a portion the MRS's environmental and cultural heritage, that
was severely threatened. The metropolitan region and its area of influence, present diverse
ecosystems comprehended by lakes, rivers, mangroves, dunes, forests, coconut trees
which due to the urban and industriall expansion, is today in a process of environmental
degradation.
36.   With the objective of sustainable development, the priority was given to
preventative and protective measures to enable an appreciation of nature, offering new
recreation options, leisure and culture for all the population of the MRS and tourists. The
primary objective was to recover physical-environmental urban spaces, optimizing
investments already made. The parks improved through investments in physical
infrastructure, sanitation and ownership legalization were: Parque do Abaete, Parque
Costa Azul, Parque Pituaqu, Parque Sao Bartolomeu and the Municipal Arboretum of
Mata dos Oitis.
(e) Complementary investmenits in the historical center of Salvador: In addition to
the studies mentioned earlier under the 1D component, the project financed two critical
investments (i) the substitution of the whole public lighting area by a subterranean cable
network, compatible with the architecture and original characteristics of the area; and the
construction of a large and modern garage-building, with capacity for 400 vehicles and
specific areas for tourism buses, solving the accessibility and parking problem in the area.
37.   Re-estimates of internal economic rates of return (ERRs): Re-estimates of internal
economic rates of return (ERRs) of sample sub-projects indicate that the investments
made were worthwhile from an economic point of view. ICR re-estimates of the two of
largest components-upgrading and basic sanitation-which accounted for more than one
third of total project costs at both appraisal and completion, indicate an ERR of 17.4%,
slightly higher than the 16.4% estimated for these two components at appraisal. At
completion, the ERR for upgrading, was 24.6%, significantly higher than the 16.0%
estimated at appraisal, thanks to the dramatic improvement in living conditions resulting
from the "Novos Alagados" upgrading sub-project.



10
38.   It was not possible to estimate an internal rate of return for SWM services for the
ICR for two reasons: (i) the final disposal part of the complete system--collection plus
disposal--was recently implemented; and (ii) user charges to be levied for this service--to
serve as a proxy for benefits--did not materialize until after the completion of the project;
(iii) capacity level cost data is not yet available, making an estimate of cost effectiveness
premature at this stage.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
39.   Factors beyond the control of the borrower that adverselv affected the project
included a combination of political, economic and institutional factors which contributed
to delays, and were beyond the control of the State or project authorities. The project
objectives were substantially achieved following the amendment, but with delays.
40.   The Loan was approved on April 22, 1986, and was signed more than a year later
in July 1987. During implementation, the closing date was postponed three times. The
final closing date June 30, 1997, was two and a half years beyond the original closing date.
Implementation thus took 10 years from loan signing, well above the average of 6 years,
for the sector.
41.   The implementation period covers four federal, four state and four municipal
administrations, and national and partisan politics often interfered with the smooth flow of
activities, and especially the priorities in the allocation of counterpart funds. Relations
between the State and the Municipality of Salvador were at times also severely strained
when opposing political parties ran the respective administrations. This adversely affected
the pace and scope of works, and implementation schedules.
42.   The macro-economic situation was consistently uncertain until mid-1994 with the
arrival of stability with the Plano Real. High inflation and a number of stabilization plans,
each generated confusion in contracts management, leading to substantial delays. Most of
all it affected the availability of FGTS7 funds from the National Housing Bank (BNH)
which was eventually absorbed by the CEF. The BNH was to be the principal source of
sub-loans under the project, besides the Bank.
43.   In 1989 all federal counterpart funds were abruptly cut off. The federal
government's formal explanation was that it did not have the necessary funds owing to a
major fiscal squeeze. Political conflict between Brasilia and the then State administration
in Bahia was no doubt a factor in deciding precisely where cuts had to be made. These
problems were made worse by constant regulations from the Central Bank, regulating the
transfer of funds to sub-national governments, in an attempt to bring the fiscal situation
under control. Delays by the federal ministry (MHU) responsible for all processing of
external funds which continued to be tied to its bureaucratic structure, became endemic in
this environment, leading to a severe erosion in the real value of re-imbursements to
CONDER from the Bank, in an inflationary economy.
7 Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servicio (Employee Indemnity Fund)



11
44.   In the face of all these difficulties, the State of Bahia requested in 1989 that it
assume full responsibilities as Borrovwer of the Bank loan, thereby foregoing claims to
federal government counterpart fundling. There was initial agreement by the federal
government. The Bank too supported an arrangement that was consistent with subsequent
Bank lending to state administrations with a federal government guarantee. Over a twelve
month period, Bank missions and Brazilian counterparts in Brasilia and Salvador worked
hard on the necessary changes to the point of drafting new legal documentation. In the
end, however, political change and uncertainty prevailed upon the parties in Brazil, and
inertia meant that the original arrangements were retained and muddled through right to
loan closing.
45.   Finally, the institutional turmoil in the urban sector at the federal level lasted a fuili
decade. The Federal Government (MINTER) was the Borrower for the purposes of the
Loan. Within a year of loan signing that ministry had been made extinct--the first in a rapid
sequence of changes. Budget constraints were blamed for cut backs and for the need of
administrative reform under a program called "Operacao Desmonte". While the urgent
need for administrative reform was recognized, the dismantling of the bureaucratic
apparatus quickly degenerated into an administrative collapse. In ten years, eight changes8
occurred at the federal administration affecting relations and responsibility for monitoring
the Salvador Metropolitan Development Project as follows:
*  1985 - MINTER - Ministry of the Interior
* 1987 - MDU - Ministry of Urban I)evelopment and Environment
*  1988 - MHU - Ministry of Housing, Urban Affairs and Environment
*  1988 - MBES - Ministry of Housing and Social Welfare
* 1989 - MINTER - Ministry of the :[nterior
*  1990 - MAS - Ministry of Social Action
*  1993 - MBES - Ministry of Housing and Social Welfare
*  1995 - MPO - Ministry of Planning and Budget
46.   Since 1996, relations with the Federal Government improved significantly and
technical efforts with SEPURB in the Ministry of Planning and Budget, began to be more
collaborative, which aided in completing project actions.
47.   Factors beyond the control of the borrower, that favorably affected the project: In
hindsight, the long delay permitted the State and the executing agency (CONDER) to
reflect on investment priorities, define and refine plans, and eventually put forward an
imaginative set of options, on which to, concentrate their attention.
8 Changes included the extinction, mergers, renaming, and/or the restructuring of federal Ministries
responsible for urban policy.



12
D. Project Sustainability
48.   Likely: Project sustainability critically depends on the Borrower's commitment to
change, the institutional change that has been achieved over the life of project
implementation, and the continued relevance and technical competence of executing
agencies. The State's commitment is beyond doubt, and the continuity of policies through
changes in administrations has been consistent. The project has resulted in a number of
competent agencies (CONDER, URBIS, and EMBASA among others) that are continuing
to carry out similar projects assigned to them by the State.
49.   The adoption by participating municipalities and utilities services companies of the
metropolitan information system (INFORMS) for taxation and billing purposes, is an
important step towards greater efficiency, and an incentive for sustainability. An on-going
follow-up project9 to strengthen municipal management of urban areas and improve the
living conditions particularly for the poor, will continue to expand activities initiated under
the Metropolitan Development Project.
E. Bank Performance
Project identification, preparation and appraisal - Satisfactory.
50.   Given the long period of involvement with the project, the World Bank's.
involvement underwent significant changes. Changes in management and task managers
influenced the way in which actions took place, as did internal and external changes.
51.   During project preparation, was undoubtedly the period in which the Bank had a
greater presence, especially with regard to technical participation. According to project
staff, efforts carried out jointly with local governments to formulate a socioeconomic and
impact assessment resulted, since that time, in significant technical learning and a
consequent institutional strengthening of state agencies and participating local
governments.
52.   The Bank team's contribution was primarily introducing concepts of project
evaluation techniques in sub-project selection (RR, Foreign Exchange/Public Investment
Ratio, Public Revenue/Public Investment ratio, Wages/Public Investment Ratio, etc), and
in fine-tuning methodology, which itself underwent a substantial change at the last minute,
as the federal government had introduced the first of many macro-economic "packages" to
control inflation.
53.   In one respect preparation was deficient. Given the performance of the on-going
pilot project, at the time, a closer scrutiny of institutional capacity of CONDER, and the
risks of multi-agency intermediaries could have been assessed with more candidness. On
both sides, there appears to have been an urgency to close the package very quickly--
preparation took 10 months. On the other hand, there appeared to be an unnecessary
9 Bahia Municipal Development Project-Ln 4140-BR was approved in 1997.



13
complex decision-making process within the Bank and at the local level, that by all
accounts prolonged appraisal, and resulted in a "hot-potch" of components, that in
hindsight lacked coherence and focus to meet the stated objectives of the project.
54.   Bank supervision was on the whole satisfactory, in respect of level of staff
commitment and intensity (except towards the end). There was a high turnover of task
managers (5) over the implementation period that may have contributed to some delays
and a lack of continuity.
55.   According to CONDER staff, the Bank's slow response to no-objection requests
caused an increase in already existing difficulties from 1987 to 1992. More attention
should have been paid to procurement, for which the postponement of training on use of
the guidelines had negative effects that arose quickly during the first, more complex bids'0.
56.   Supervision was satisfactory in identification of issues and assessment of project
progress, but towards the end of the project deficient in assessing time required to
complete works. Missions promoted flexibility within the Bank to incorporate changing
circumstances, and last minute additions to project scope (e.g. financing the parking
garage and an underground network for public security lighting in the historic center),
follow-up on recommendations, and enforcement of covenants.
57.   Special appreciation was expressed during interviews, of the Bank's very positive
participation in internal negotiation processes especially leading to the Loan amendment,
both with the Federal Government (Ministry of Social Welfare, SEAIN, the Secretariat of
the National Treasury), Salvador Municipality and other municipal governments, in which
persons of different political outlook were involved. The special attention devoted to
improving resettlement policy and practice in the Novos Alagados sub-component was
noteworthy.
58.   Furthermore, the Bank's decision to decentralize supervision and monitoring from
headquarters in Washington to the Resident Mission in Brasilia in 1994, was decisive in
improving project performance.
F. Borrower Performance
Performance of the State
59.   The State Government contribution was eventually greater than that foreseen and
initially agreed with the Federal Government and the World Bank. The internal and
external political environment with each changing administration directly influenced
project implementation. The obligations undertaken under the Loan such as measures
dealing with the regulation and strengthening of FEREM, and in respect of sub-loans
terms and conditions, cost recovery imposition of garbage collection fees, etc., were not
10 This comment was offered by way of explaining the cancelation of $18.4m on the roads component in
January 1992, when the Bank's procurement guidelines were not strictly complied with.



14
complied with. The macro-economic and political environment described earlier made it
impossible to do so.
60.   Political difficulties also had repercussions on delays in the above-mentioned
measures. The first deals with long established relationships of assistance between state
and municipal governments in Brazil, which usually hinder compliance with formal, strictly
agreed financial relationships. Second, the strengthening of FIEREM could create a very
strong structure within CONDER, for which there did not appear to be consensus at state
decision-making levels. These restrictions contributed to weakening the autonomy needed
by the CONDER which was thus always at the mercy of financial transfers facilitated by
centralized state and federal government authorities, and under state control.
61.   From  1992, conditions were favorable and the State's performance was
undoubtedly positive. With the Loan Amendment, State ownership was clearly well
established. It signaled priorities, provided adequate counterpart funds, gave CONDER
and other project executing agencies appropriate resources. Most important it used
CONDER as an important technical arm of the State Planning Secretariat, to negotiate a
working partnership with the participating municipalities, and bring order and efficiency
into the physical structure of the Metropolitan Region as few other states in Brazil have
been able to do. In turn, this helped the budget and resource allocation process. These
efforts were effective. Within a few years, implementation performance had improved
substantially in the MRS, particularly in the areas of solid waste, urban sanitation and the
GIS components.
Performance of Municipal Governments
62.   The participation of municipal governments underwent various kinds of setbacks,
all of them, however, strongly affected by the political situation. At the beginning of the
project, and motivated by the efforts of the pilot project which experienced fewer demands
and had greater financial flexibility, the municipal governments of Salvador and Camacari
participated actively in developing project actions and (especially Salvador) were mainly
responsible for advance retrofinancing expenditures.
63.   The political openness leading to the constitutional changes of 1988 altered the
country's political outlook and had greater repercussions on municipal structures. In the
MRS especially, political openness made it possible for elections to be held in eight of its
nine municipalities at that time, which meant that changes were expected in the political
composition of municipal authorities. This in fact happened with the 1986 elections, when
parties opposed to the State Government were elected in several municipalities of the
metropolitan region, including Salvador and Camacari.
64.   Under these conditions, the political situation was not favorable to the carrying out
of actions shared by both levels. However, despite initial difficulties, the impartial position
adopted in the carrying out of actions planned for the project managed to obtain the



15
support and participation of municipal governments, with the exception of Salvador where
political differences persisted that often extended to the technical area.
65.   Difficulties with the Municipality of Salvador had extremely negative effects on the
project, culminating with the withholdling of funds by the Bank, due to the municipal
government's reluctance to cancel a biid considered unacceptable by the Bank. Actions
were also delayed or not carried out due to lack of understanding and acceptance of
conditions required by the Project.
66.   The "culture" of participation of municipal governments is still steeped in an
historical heritage of state assistance (piatronage), which often delays the multiplier effect
expected from project actions".
The Performance of CONDER (Executing Agency)
67.   The Salvador Metropolitan Development Agency (CONDER) reporting to the
Planning, Science and Technology Secretariat (SECPLANTEC) is a public corporation set
up in 1974. It has a broad mandate to plan, and execute actions at amplifying and
modernizing the urban infrastructure, economy and tourism, for the protection of the
environment, sanitation and for the institutional strengthening of the region's
municipalities.
68.   The  1988 Constitution empowers states with the authority to  establish
metropolitan regions12, urban agglomerations and micro-regions, through complementary
laws. This is a big advance on the earlier Constitution under which, only federal legislation
could authorize the establishment of such regions. It opens up opportunities for the
municipalities in conjunction with the respective state to define and institute such
metropolitan regions.
69.   CONDER (as with other Metropolitan Regions in Brazil) was regarded as a
creation of the authoritarian regime, and as a means of exercising political clientelism from
Brasilia. With the transfer of responsibility to the states under the new Constitution
however, CONDER was not abolished, as were some others in Brazil. Instead the State
encouraged CONDER to operate on a less formal modus-operandi in its relationships with
the constituent municipalities of the MRS, and develop a level of mutual confidence in
order to carry out its mandate. The achievements under the project show that CONDER
especially in the years 1992-97 was able to effectively enlist support and cooperation from
its many clients and other executing agencies.
70.   In assessing the performance of CONDER, it must be judged at two points in time.
Preparation in the 1985-86 period was in general satisfactory. There was some
11 There is evidence of change in the Bahia Mumicipal Development Project (In.4140-BR) under
implementaion.
12 Capitulo III, "Dos Estados Federados"paragrafo 30 do art.25: 1988 Constitution; 1994 Lobo,
Thereza. Os Municipios e a Decentralizacao dfe Encargos-Uma Nova Oportunidade.



16
deterioration in staff morale and management, with start-up delays. A serious effort
followed in the period 1991-92 by the State, to improve deep-rooted administrative and
management problems constraining the functioning of CONDER, with a consequent
immediate improvement in the overall quality of technical product. Preparation of new
sub-projects in the post loan amendment phase was also rated satisfactory.
71.   Project Implementation   especially after 1992 was mixed and merits a
satisfactory rating. While project coordination was highly satisfactory for most of the
period, there were phases of considerable slow-down in activities. These were caused by
disruption in staff continuity, periodic shortages of counterpart funds, inadequate attention
to procurement guidelines, internal coordination problems, and staff overload. Some key
technical staff of CONDER at completion were part of the original preparation team, but
even they had been "temporarily" reassigned from the project as political changes forced
such changes during implementation. Subsequently, CONDOR's credibility had increased
substantially as a result of the first visible "on-the-ground" results, leading the State to
greatly increase its demands on CONDER for assistance with other internationally
financed projects.
72.   Compliance with Covenants: Implementation was deficient on compliance with
the Bank's procurement and audit standards. In 1990 there were procurement problems
with the purchase of garbage trucks not eligible for financing. In 1992 the total allocated
for the roads component plus a portion of the unallocated funds (US$18.4m) was canceled
after protracted correspondence on a case of mis-procurement by the Municipality of
Salvador. CONDER appears to have experienced consistent difficulty in submitting "un-
qualified" and timely audits. At the time of writing, there is still a list of questions that
have been raised by the State's Tribunal das Contas (TCE) awaiting a response.
G. Assessment of Outcome
73.   Given the difficult start, mitigated by an impressive recovery after 1992, the overall
project rating may be rated as satisfactory. The project achieved its major objectives. Its
benefits in terms of a metropolitan wide solid waste management system that works (even
if coverage is still not 100%) is unquestionable, and could provide a model for other
metropolitan regions in Brazil.
74.   The impact on poverty and environment are rated as substantial. The benefits of
the Novos Alagados sub-project--with an internal ERR at completion of 24.6%--and other
basic sanitation and urban recovery sub-projects are targeted to the very poor.
Improvements in solid waste management also have a very high positive impact on the
quality of life of the poor. In all these components, the environmental benefits are likely to
be substantial. Similarly, the technical assistance, as well as the environmental benefits of
installing underground electrical cabling and the construction of a parking garage, have
substantially improved the attractiveness and economic benefits to the historic center of
Pelourinho. Finally, the installation of the GIS-based geographic and economic cadaster,
though not generally visible to the public is expected to result in substantial efficiency



17
gains (through improved tax-collection) and sharing of billing data with utility companies
and other users.
H. ]Future Operation
75.   As noted earlier, performance indicators to monitor and evaluate project results
and their sustainability were not developed or followed up during project supervision.
Much data exists and can be reconstructed for follow-up in future, particularly at the
municipal level. This effort has already been initiated under the Bahia Municipal
Development Project under implementation. The indicators will cover the impacts on
municipal finance, as well as a number of social indicators.
76.   There is also a need in the future to address the impact of a set of follow-up
initiatives and projects that the State is implementing with loans from other financial
institutions. CONDER's involvement in partial execution of other projects is an important
element for success in this respect. ALs a result of its much improved technical capacity,
CONDER is executing studies, developing sub-projects in solid waste management for 6
municipalities in the region of Reconcavo Baiano under the Depollution of the Baia de
Todos os Santos Project (BID); with a number of municipalities in two regions (Costa do
Descobrimento and Costa do Cacau) under the Northeast Touristic Development Project
-PRODETUR (BID); and with a number of municipalities in the state's interior through
the CEF's Pro-Saneamento Program. CONDER has also been involved in the early stages
of definition of the proposed urban tramsport project -METRO (Bank), and is expected to
eventually monitor the impact of that project on land use in the MRS.
l. Key Lessons Learned
77.   The most significant lessons learned from the successes of the project include:
*  Political Will: In retrospect it is clear that the state' political leadership decided to do
something about the metropolitan region, to arrest the decay in managerial,
environmental and social conditions. The competitiveness of the State and the MRS in
attracting investments and other economic opportunities, depends largely on the image
that potential investors and visitors take away as they leave. The economic
transformation of MRS over the past 5 years has been phenomenal as it attracts major
foreign direct investment (FDI), and as it moves to displace Recife as the regional
capital of the Northeast.
*  Borrower ownership is fundamental to ensure priority for the project. The State's role
from 1991 clearly demonstrated this, through priority given to the allocation of
counterpart resources; the support to management of CONDER; the importance
attached to the role of CONDER in technical planning and coordinating strategic
metropolitan level investments.



18
* Human Resources Capacity Building: The returns from an investment in human
resources are very high. Within CONDER, two units of technical excellence are the
SWM and Cadaster and Digital Cartographic unit. The State is evaluating options and
next steps to ensure the sustainabilty of the technical capacity built up over the years,
and the need to start recruiting and training the next generation to continue these
tasks.
* "Up-fronting" Institutional Infrastructure: Improving the managerial, technical and
financial performance in city management requires putting in place and constantly
updating, an adequate technical infrastructure that can generate up-to date information
(economic trends, fiscal status, land use/abuse, poverty mapping): management
information systems; cartographic and GIS capability (equipment and people) etc.
These take time and money to put in place and make operational, and are almost a
prerequisite to initiating programs to address urban management. There is usually a
mismatch between the time frame required for installing institutional infrastructure and
realistic expecting results (for example, in increased tax revenues) as covenanted under
the Loan Agreement.
*  The performance of CONDER: The modus operandi of CONDER in developing
partnerships (parceiria) is worth highlighting. It was apparently, effective in inter
agency communications as well as informal consultation and participation, and selling
itself with credibility through the delivery of promises made to the community, was a
very important ingredient for success. Staff continuity in CONDER throughout the life
of the project was very important.
_  Partnerships: The partnership between different agencies working towards a common
goal was especially evident in the evolution of plans and eventually the re-habilitation
of Pelourinho-Salvador's historic center. At the time of appraisal the Bank policies
would not permit financing of tourism-related infrastructure, and limited its role to
initiating an number of feasibility studies. UNESCO's contribution was very important
in providing specialist technical assistance in carrying this task forward. Other
institutions and agencies, and the private sector were invited by the State to
participate, all which contributed to success.
*  Public/private sector collaboration: The other important lesson is the way the State
created an enabling environment for the private sector. Both in the historic center as
well as in the various rehabilitation of urban parks, the state provided the public
infrastructure, and invited the private sector to invest in construction, or alternatively
in leasing and operating a number of facilities (food, recreation, etc.).
*  Lending Instruments: Finally, in hindsight, although not intended to be so, the loan
was used very much as a project preparation facility for testing, learning and adapting
a few programs on urban up-grading, SWM, etc. In the future more use should be
made of some of the Bank's new product lines (APPLs, LILs) for initiating such
projects.



19
78.   Lessons derived from the project's shortcomings include:
* Multi-jurisdictional institutional arrangements increase risk of delays: This risk is
more likely if the Borrower is the Federal government and the end beneficiary is the
State. The remoteness from the end-user of the loan, coupled with the lack of
ownership (and intervening formal bureaucratic processes) do not help in project
implementation. To the extent possible, every effort should be made in project design
to adapt to changing political/ institutional rearrangements with greater flexibiLity.
*  Project complexity and institutional capacity: The unsatisfactory performance during
the first five years of the project can be attributed to an over ambitious design, an
inadequately designed institutional framework, and an unrealistic assessment of
change underway on the external economic, political and institutional front. In short a
problem of project design.
. Improving Fiscal Performance: The timing, tools, training, and incentives were
probably not fully thought through. The macro-economic/fiscal environment was
difficult. The tools (information system, tax cadaster and enabling legislation) was
probably not in place at the timie of appraisal. The incentives were not present in
project design. For example, the ]Loan amendment of 1992, did away with on-lending
arrangements from FEREM. There were no penalties for bad performance, or
incentives such as access to additional resources, to reward good performance. There
was little "buy-in" or ownership, by municipalities at the start, who saw this as another
exercise of patronage by the state and its agents (CONDER)--hence there was no
incentive for municipalities to want to improve their finances.



20
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives                  Substantial         Partial        Negligible    Not applicabb
Macro Policies                                                     E E             EEl
Sector Policies                                      l             [X I                              E
Fmancial objectives                               El                               El                E
Institutional Development                          5                  l            El 
Physical objectives                               [                 El             E                 El
Poverty reduction                                 [                 E              E                 E
Gender issues                                        l                l            El               [
Other social objectives                           El                W              E                 El
Environmental objectives                                            E              E                 El
Public sector management                          [                 E              E                 El
Private sector development                        El                El             x
B. Project sustainabilit                         Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
C. Bank performance                        Highbly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                                    El                               El
Preparation assistance                            [K]               E
Appraisal                                            l             [               E
Supervision                                       El                  ]            E
D. Borrower performance                    Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                       E                [               E
Implementation                                    []                El             E
Covenant compliance                                                 E              [x
Operation (if applicable)                         E                   ]            E
Highly
E. Assessment of outcome                   Hiahbly satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
El                  Z    El                       E



21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
LuAmount  Year of                  Status
Loan                           Purpose                 (US$ M)   Approval              (05/20/9
Preceding Operations
1. Medium Sized Cities       To improve the living conditions and   70         1979     Implementation completed.
Project (Ln. 1720-BR)        increase the incomes of the                                Project performance audit
populations, particularly the urban                        report (PAR) dated 12/01/89.
poor, of eight rapidly growing
medium-sized cities.
2. Recife Metropolitan Region   To develop integrated Metropolitan  123.9      1982     Implementation completed
Development Project          Development in the Recife Region                           Project performance audit
Metropolitan Area                                          report (PAR) dated 6/26/98
3. Parana Market Towns       To develop an alternatiive system of  52.7        1983     Implementation completed.
Improvement (Ln. 2343-BR)    long-term borrowing for the                                Project pefofrmance audit report
municipalities, establish systematic                       # 10832 dated 6/26/98.
criteria for the selectionr of sub-
projects, develop measures for cost
recovery of investment costs and
improve standard of living in urban
areas.
4. Santa Catarina Small Towns  To improve the managerial capacity  24.5        1985     Implementation completed.
Improvement (Ln. 2623-BR)    and fiscal efficiency of the                              Implementation completion
municipalities; provide basic economic                     report (ICR) dated 12/30/94.
and social infrastructure to small urban
areas; and decentralize urban
administration and financial
management for small urban areas.
Subsequent Operations
1. Parana Municipal         Increase municipal capacity to plan,  100.0       1989      Loan closed December 31,
Development (Ln. 3100-BR)    finance and execute projects through                        1995. Implementation
full cost recovery, improve                                completion report dated
coordination of urban development                          4/28/97. Project audit report
policy and investment decisions, and                       due 6/1/98
improve targeting these programs to
urban poor.
2. Rio Grande do Sul         Increase municipal capacity to plan,  100.0       1989      Loan closed December 31,
Municipal Development (Ln.    finance and execute projects through                       1995. Implementation
3129-BR)                     full cost recovery, improve                                 Completion Report dated
coordination of urban dlevelopment                         4/28/97. Project audit report
policy and investment clecisions, and                      due 6/1/98.
improve targeting these programs to
l ________________________   urban  poor.
3. Minas Gerais Municipal    Strengthen municipal financial        150.0       1993     Scheduled to close December
Management and               management, improve environmental                          31, 1998.
Environmental Infrastructure  management and mobilize private
(Ln. 3639-BR)                resources for municipal service
provision in the State.
4. Ceara Urban Development   Strengthen local governments and      140.0       1994     Scheduled to close March 31,
and Water Resources          water resource management in the                           2000.
Management (Ln. 3789-BR)     State.                                                    .
S. Bahia State Municipal     Help Bahia State's program of reform  100.0       1997     Scheduled to close December
Management Project (Ln.      for management of urban areas and                          31, 2000.
4140-BR)                     improve the living condlitions of urban
I residents, primarily the                                   _      _      _      _



22
Salvador Metropolitan Development Project
Table 3 : Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle   Date       Actual   Planned: Actual
Planned    Date/or
Durations    Difference
Identification (Initial  12/3/84    12/3/84        0
Executive
roject Summary)
reparation            10 months   10 months       0
Appraisal               6/21/85     6/21/85        0
Negotiations            12/4/85     12/4/85        0
Board Presentations     4/22/86     4/22/86        0
Loan Signing            7/15/86     7/15/86        0
Loan Effectiveness      5/18/87     5/18/87        0
Loan Closing            12/31/94    6/30/97    30 months
Source: PC Portfolio
(O'S)



23
Salvador Metropolitan Development Project
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
Original estimate1             4.40   7.40   13.10  20.80  29.50  38.20  45.90  51.60   54.60  55.00
Revised estimate2              2.40   5.40   9.40   13:40  17.40  21.40  24.40  26.40   29.40  33.40  36.40  36.61
Actual                            -      -   5.59   6.18   8.64   8.64    8.64  13.14  17.10  23.24  30.32  33.39
Actualas % ofrevised estimate   0%     0%    59%    46%    50%    40%    35%    50%    58%    70%    83%    91%/
Date of final disbursement:   Anuist 31 1997
60.00
+ Original estimate . 
50.00 -  --     Revised estimate .           . .                           - -  -- -
340.00 -        *Actual                      .     ;         --                       -----------
3 20.00 -                                   .              , ----
20.00 - 
t-          0 --                          N
Notes:
1. $18.4 million canceled on December 10, 1991.
2. $3.22 million undisbursed and canceled on August 31, 1997
Source: PC Portfolio (OIS)



Salvador Metropolitan Project
Final Evaluation Report
Table 5: Project Implementation Indicators at Appraisal and After Amendment1
Ptot I-plme        o -nat               .   -     Planned                  -  - g :::-.ri  Ou.............   -                  -t O|ame  bs
A. Urban Recovery
A.I - Low-Income Settlements             - 11 communities in Salvador     -6 Communities in         - Component's targets
Improvement of low-income urban          - 12 conunuities in Camacari     Salvador:                 reduced following
settlements in RMS municipalities, with                                   1. Alto da Capelinha      amendment
implementation of basic infrastructure                                    2. Boa Vista de Sao
(drainage, paving, community equipment)                                   Caetano
3. Campinas de Brotas
4. Engenho Velho da
Federacao
5. Pela Porco
6. Sertaneio                                       l
A. 1 - Low-Income Settlements/Parks                                                                                           l
Recovery of Metropolitan Parks           - Recovery/Construction of 6 Parks  1. Recovery ofAbaeMt Park
2. Recovery of PituaVu
Park
3. Recovery of S&o
Bartolomeu Park
4. Recovery of Horto da
Mata dos Oitis
S. Construction of Costa
Azul Park
6. Construction of Solar do
Unhdo Sculpture Park
A.2 - Basic Sanitation
Implementation of basic sanitation in low-  - 11 settlements in Salvador  (*) See post-amendment    - Component's targets
income settlements                                                        table                     modified following
l________________________     _                           lam endm ent
Execution and expansion of sewage collection  - 46, 000 meters of collection  - 46, 000 meters of
network in Bacia da Barra, Pituba and    network                          collection network
Lucaia                                   - 2,800 home sewage connections    - 2,800 home sewage
I                                I connections
Revised targets agreed at Loan Amendment (February 1992)



Salvador Metr.?politan Project
Final Evaluation Report
Table 5: Project Implementation Indicators at Appraisal and After Amendment'
Pi'oAectb~~iplewentation Indicators  Planned   ~Carred Out                             Obs
Revitalization of micro-metering system for    - Procurement of 30,000 water  - Procurement of30, 000
water supply to Salvador                 meters                           water meters
Construction of municipal slaughterhouse in   - Construction of slaughterhouse  - Construction of 138 m2    - Construction of 300 m
municipality of Candeias                 - Construction of access road    slaughterhouse            access road
Provision of basic sanitation and urban  - Urbanization and infrastructure    - Urbanization and    - Construction of hydraulic
infrastructure, promoting land reform    in Novos Alagados areas in       infrastructure in Novos   landfill to establish contour
regulation and environmental recovery of  Salvador                        Alagados areas in Salvador  of bay
NovosAlagados                            - Implementation of 2 subdivisions   - Implementation of 2  - Construction of
to resettle families            subdivisions to resettle   community equipment
- Implementation of 283 housing    families
nuclei                           - Implementation of 283
- Construction of hydraulic landfill  housing nuclei
to establish contour of bay
- Construction of community
equipment                                                  __
A.3 - Community Participation
Training in maintenance of basic sanitation    -34 conmunities            -6 communities            - Component's target
equipment for communities included in Items                                                         reduced following
Al and A2.                                                                                          amendment
B. Primary Roads Infrastructure                                          I
1. Construction of primary roads in Salvador   -2 roads                   - Engineering Design for    - Component canceled
- 13 km of primary roads         Sabociro and Jaguaribe
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ro a d s
lRevised targets agreed at Loan Amendment (Febnrary 1992)



Salvador Metropolitan Project
Final Evaluation Report
Table 5: Project Implementation Indicators at Appraisal and After Amendment 1
C. Municipal Services                                                                                                      I
C.1 - Urban Sanitation
Improvement and expansion of trash      - Procurement of trash collection  - Procurement of trash  - Component's targets
collection, hauling and disposal in RMS  equipment for 10 municipalities  collection equipment for 10  expanded following
municipalities.                         - Construction of 4 sanitary    municipalities            amendment
landfills                       - Construction of 4 sanitary
- Construction of 3 transfer stations  landfills
(*) See post-amendment table    - Construction of 3 transfer
stations
(*) See post-amendment
table
C.2 - Urban Maintenance
Improvement, expansion and creation of  - Procurement of equipment for 9    - Procurement of      - Component's targets
urban municipal infrastructure maintenance    municipalities            equipment for 3           reduced following
services (roads, drainage and sidewalks)  - Execution of civil works    municipalities           amendment
- Paving and drainage
works in 3 municipalities
- Execution of civil works   *Authorized during LBRD
I_in 3 municipalities*    mission
C.2 - Urban Maintenance                 - Procurement of equipment for 3    - Procurement of
municipalities                  equipment for Salvador,
- Execution ofpaving and drainage  Cama,ari and Candeias
works in 3 municipalities       - Paving and drainage
- Execution of urbanization work in  works in Cama ari,
I municipality                  Candeias and Lauro de
Freitas
- Urbanization of Pra,a de
Amoreiras in Itaparica  I
Revised targets agreed at Loan Amendment (February 1992)



Salvador Metropolitan Project
Final Evaluation Report
Table 5: Project Implementation Indicators at Appraisal and After Amendment'
C.3 - Municipal Markets
Construction and recovery of municipal   - Recovery of 3 markets in Salvador  - Recovery of 3 markets in   - Component's targets
markets                                  - Construction of I market in   Salvador                  reduced following
I   Candeias                        - Construction of Candeias  amendment
- Remodeling of 1 and construction   Central Supply Market
of 4 markets in Camacari        - Repair of Cama9ari
- Training of market licensees in 3   Central Market
municipalities                  - Training of licensees in 2
municipalities
- Rehabilitation of 3 markets in  - Recovery of STIEP,
Salvador                        Ribeira Markets and of the
- Construction of I market in   CM4ASA refrigeration
Candeias                        section
- Repair of I market in Camagari    - Construction of Candeias
- Training of market licensees in 3   Central Supply Market
municipalities                  - Repair of Camagari
Central Market
- Training of market
licensees in Salvador,
Cama9ari'and Candeias
D. Productive Activities
D.l - Provision of basic infrastructure to 1  - 300 commercial lots                                - Component canceled
commercial center and industrial center  - 140 industrial lots                                     following amendment
D.2 - Construction and expansion of micro-    - Construction of 1 unit                             - Component canceled
units producing construction materials   - Expansion of 2 units                                    following amendment
D.3 - Training programs                  - 8300 micro-enterprises         - 613 micro-enterprises  - Component canceled
- 1600 low-income workers                                 following amendment
D.3 - Training programs                  - 613 micro-enterprises         - 613 micro-enterprises
lRevised targets agreed at Loan Amendment (February 1992)



Salvador Metropolitan Project
Final Evaluation Report
Table 5: Project Implementation Indicators at Appraisal and After Amendment 1
L Institutional Development
E.1 - Metropolitan Administration
Strengthen the operational capacity of  - Preparation of studies        - Preparation of studies  (*) See Table 7
CONDER through technical assistance,    - Computerization of CONDER     - Computerization of     - Component's targets
training, procurement of equipment and  - Implementation of a Metropolitan   CONDER              expanded following
expansion of headquarters.              Data System                     - Implementation of a    amendment
- Repair of CONDER headquarters  Metropolitan Data System
- Technical assistance to       - Repair of CONDER
municipalities                  headquarters
- Technical assistance to
municipalities
E.1 - Metropolitan Administration                                                                                                        oo
- Preparation of Institutional Policy  - Preparation of
Alternatives Studyfor RMS       Institutional Policy
- Preparation of FinancialAction    Alternatives Studyfor RMS
Plansfor RMS municipalities     - Preparation of Financial
- Aerial photographic coverage and  Acfion Plansfor RMS
digital restitution of the area of  municipalities
Salvador, Lauro de Freitas and  -Aerialphotographic
Cama,ari                        coverage and digital
- Computerization of Metropolitan   restitution of the area of
Data System with implementation    Salvador, Lauro de Freitas
of integrated geoprocessing     and Camacari
solution                        - Computerization of
- Preparation of basic mapsfor  Metropolitan Data System
RMS municipalities              with implementation of
- Preparation ofMunicipal Land    integrated geoprocessing
Registers for Candeias, Lauro de    solution
Freitas, Simoes Filho and Itaparica  - Preparation of basic
- Preparation of Technical Geo-  mapsfor RMS
1 Revised targets agreed at Loan Amendment (February 1992)



Salvador Metropolitan Project
Final Evaluation Report
Table 5: Project Implementation Indicators at Appraisal and After Amendment 1
Reference Land Register for      municipalities
Camag,ari, Dias D 'Avila        - Preparation ofMunicipal
- Computerization of metropolitan   Land Registers for
agency and repair of headquarters   Candeias, Lauro de
of CONDER                       Freitas, Simoes Filho and
Itaparica
- Preparation of Technical
Geo-Reference Land
Registerfor Cama,ari,
Dias D 'Avila
- Computerization of
metropolitan agency and
repair of headquarters of
CONDER
E.2 - Municipal Administation
Technical assistance, training, procurement of - Updating of Salvador Land  - Updating of Salvador  - Component's targets
equipment to restructure the Salvador Land    Register                    Land Register             expanded following
Register and strengthen the areas of tax  - Municipal computerization     - Municipal               amendment
collection, investments, programming and  (*) See post-amendment table    computerization
budget                                                                    (*) See post-amendment
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ .________________________   table   _ _ __tab l
E.2 - Municipal Administration
- Preparation ofMunicipal Land   - Preparation ofMunicipal
Registers for Candeias, Lauro de    Land Registers for
Freitas, Simoes Filho and Itaparica  Candeias, Lauro de
- Preparation of Technical Geo-  Freitas, Simoes Filho and
Reference Land Registerfor       Itaparica
Cama,ari, Dias D 'Avila         - Preparation of Technical
- Preparation of Technical Geo-  Geo-Reference Land
Reference Land Regi ster for     Register for Camacari,
Salvador                         Dias D 'Avila
- Computerization of Secretariats of - Preparaffon of Technical
Administration and Environment in  Geo-Reference Land
Salvador                        Register for Salvador     __
Revised targets agreed at Loan Amendment (February 1992)



Salvador Metropolitan Project
Final Evaluation Report
Table 5: Project Implementation Indicators at Appraisal and After Amendment 
- Computerization of
Secretariats of
Administration and
_                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Environment in Salvador
F. Technical Assistance to Historic Center                              E
Preparation of feasible proposals for   - Preparation of studies        - Preparation of 6 studies
rehabilitation of Salvador Historic Center  (*) See post-amendment table  (*) See post-amendment
F. Technical Assistance to Historic Center
Preparation of feasible proposals for   - Preparation ofstudies         - Study ofAlternatives to
rehabilitation of Salvador Historic Center and  - Reform ofpublic lighting system    Shared ManagementModel
implementation of civil restoration works  in the area                  - Traffic and
- Implementation ofparking garage  Transportation Study
- Implementation of labor training   - Study ofAssessment of                                     0
andformation program           Impact of Investments on
the Recovery of Pelourinho
- Study of Urban Dynamics
for Investment
Opportunities in Historic
Center
- Study of Labor Training
and Formation Program
- Construction of 2,600 m
underground high voltage
network and 20,200 m low
voltage network, 5
substations, and 190 public
lighting units
- Construction ofparking
garage
lRevised targets agreed at Loan Amendment (Februany 1992)



Salvador Metropolitan Project
Final Evaluation Report
Table 5: Project Implementation Indicators at Appraisal and After Amendment1
G. Administration of Metropolitan Areas
Technical assistance to Federal Government   - Programs for 8 metropolitan areas                    - Component canceled
ministry for development of programs for                                                            following amendment
administration of metropolitan areas
Revised targets agreed at Loan Amendment (February 1992)



32
Salvador Metropolitan Development Project
Table 5.A: Key Indicators of Project Implementation and Operation
Table 5.A Financial Results of Project
Salvador Municipalities
Results                                          Salvador        Others      TOTAL
Basic data:
No. of municipalities            1996                  1             9            10
Total population                 1996           2,209,465       505,980    2,715,445
Population per municipality      1996           2,209,465        56,220      271,545
Aggregate finances                                 (in millions of US dollars)
Total revenues                   1986              384.0          138.8        522.6
1996              412.7         294.4        706.1
Total expenditures               1986              411.0          147.6        558.7
1996              467.9         373.4        841.3
Surplus/deficit                  1986   |          (27.0)         (8.8)       (35.8)
1996             (55.2)        (79.0)       (135.2)
Detailed revenue data                              (in millions of US dollars)
Total tax revenues               1986              102.0           25.7        127.7
1996              182.2          36.0        218.2
IPTU revenues                    1986               30.7            3.2         33.9
1996               60.9           8.4         69.3
ISS revenues                     1986               60.9           21.2         82.2
1996               89.4          19.0        108.5
1996
Personnel expenditures           1986              114.9           68.0        182.9
1996              280.7         152.0        432.7



33
Salvador Metropolitan Development Project
Table 5.B: Key Financial Indicators of Project Implementation and Operation
Financial IndicaLtors of Project Municipalities
Salvador Municipalities
Indicators                                            Salvador        Others      TOTAL
Total revenue per capita (US$):       1986               214.8         401.2        245.0
1996               186.7        583.0        260.1
Change in revenue per capita          1986-96           -13.1%        45.3%         6.2%
Surplus/total revenue:                1986               -7.0%         -6.3%        -6.9%
1996             -13.4%        -26.8%       -19.2%/
Change in surplus/total revenue       1986-96           -91.1%      -325.7%      -178.3%
Change in total revenue:              1986-96            7.5%        112.1%        35.1%
Change in total expenditure           1986-96           13.8%        152.9%        50.6%
Total tax revenues per capita (US$):  1986                57.0          74.3         59.8
1996                82.5         71.1         80.3
Change in tax revenues per capita:    1986-96           44.6%          -4.4%       34.3%
Tax revenues/total revenues:          1986              26.6%          18.5%       24.4%
1996              44.1%         12.2%        36.9%
IPTU revenues/total revenues:         1986                8.0%         2.3%         6.5%
1996              14.2%          2.9%         9.8%
Change in IT  revenues:               1986-96           98.4/        162.5%       104.4%
ISS revenues/total revenues:          1986               15.9%        15.3%        15.7%
1996             2fl.7%          6.5%        15.4%
Change in ISS revenues:               1986-96           46.8%         -10.4%       32.0%
Change in Investment expenditure:     1986-96
Personnel exp./total exp.             1986              28.0%         46.1%        33.7%
1996              38.7%         30.9%        35.6%
Change in Personnel expenditure:      1986-96          144.3%        123.5%       136.6%



34
Salvador Metropolitan Development Project
Table 5C: Graphs Showing Key Indicators
Figure 1. clearly shows the increasing trend in the operating cost as compared to the current
revenue. However, the data is not clear as to what constitutes the operating cost.
Figurel. Relationship between Cost/Current Revenue (1986-1996)
120.00
1  00.00  --- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -
80.00                                                                  ---            al
60.00  ---------------------------------                         ......... .         Sa va o
-45-- Others
40.00              1988-1990-1992-1994                                  --9
20.00  -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -
1986         1988          1990         1992          1994          1996



35
The growth in the revenues in the municipalities has been quite significant in the last 2 years of
which the data is available, especially in Salvador, where the increase has been more noticeable
than the other municipalities combined (Figure 2). These are real increases expressed in December
1996 R$ when the exchange with dollars was at par (1US$ = IR$).
Figure 2 Evolution of Total Revenues in the Municipalities (1986-1996)
1,400 -
112000------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1,0 00     -.......... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- ---- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -
800  -. ----------------------------------------------------------                    -          -        Salvador
)I/    * -   Others
Q600 -                                      ------- -----------   -- Total
200-
1986            1988             19.90           1992             1994             1996
A relationship between operation cost and total expenses shows a consistent increase in the
Salvador Municipality whereas it has been fairly flat in other municipalities. But we have to be
cautious on using this data because the composition of expenditure is not clear as to whether it
includes salaries and wages or not.



36
Figure 3. Relationship between Operation Costs and Total Expenses (1986-1996)
100 - 
80    ----------------------------- ------                                      -------------------------
70 -..                                                                                       .. 
6--- Salvador
-U-Others
30   -...........................
120                                                                            .... ... ......... .......... ....
O -                       I                    I                     
1986                 1988                 1990                 1992                 1994                 1996
During the 10 year period the income tax collection per inhabitants has gone up consistently except
for a drop in 1994. This is true for both Salvador and other municipalities (Figure 4).
Figure 4 Relationship between Income Tax Contribution and Number of People in the
Municipalities
90.00
8 0 .0 0  --- --  -- -- -- --  -- -- --  -- -- ---  -- -- --  -- -- -- -- -- --  -- ---  -- -- --  -- -- -- --  -- -- --
70.00   -----------------------                                                             ..........
60.00,                                                              :             = 
50.00                              -- -                  .......S...al...........                                                                vador
40.0           --------- ------------------------------------------                      ----               O thers
3 0 .0 0  ---------  --------  ---------  --------  ---------  -------- ---------  --------  ---------  --------  --------
30.00 .  .  ...  ..  ...........
2 0 .0 0  -- --  -- -- -- --  --    ------ ------ ------ ------  ------ -----  ------  ------ ------  ------ ------  -----
10.00    .      -       -....-                                        -       -      -       -      -       -          -
1986                  1988                   1990                  1992                   1994                  1996



37
Salvador Metropolitan Development Project
Table 6: Project Costs
appraisal                    Actual
Local   Foreign  Total      Local   Foreign  Total
Item                                Costs    Costs              Costs    Costs
A. Upgrading                        22.0    9.6       31.6       18.0    6.1      24.1
B. hifastructure                     12.0    8.4      20.4       0.2      0.3     0.5
C. Municipal Services                18.5    15.0    33.5        13.1    17.7    30.7
D. Productive Activities            3.7      1.5      5.2        0.0      0.0     0.0
E. Institutional Development         6.2     2.2      8.4        5.0      8.4     13.4
F. Technical Assistance              0.3     0.2      0.5        2.0      4.0     6.0
G. Managment of Metropolis Areas    0.4      0.2      0.6        -        -       -
H. Administration                    1.5     0.5      2.0        1.4              1.4
Base Cost                         64.6    37.6    102.2       39.8    36.4    76.2
Contingencies                       30.8    18.0    48.8
Total                               95.4    55.6    151.0        39.8    36.4    76.2
Source: Appraisal and Avaliacao do Final
do Projceto Metropolitano (December 1987)
6.A: DETAILS OF MAIN SUB-COMPONENTS
The main objective was to improve municipal services in the MRS and to order to
support increased economic productivity and provide better living conditions to the
population of the region. Physical targets substantially exceeded expectations. This note
summarizes the scope of three main sub-components: (a) metropolitan solid waste
management; (b) basic sanitation tofavelas; and (c) recovery of urban parks.
Metropolitan Solid Waste Mranagement: (SWM) (43% of total project costs).
The MRS generates over 3 thousand tons/day of solid waste. Of this about 85% was
disposed in un-sanitary landfills (olpen waste dumps), through which thousands of
"scavengers" (catadores) searched daily in order to survive. The coliection and disposal
was not accompanied by any technical or environmental controls, with consequent high
health risks to the population, and severe degradation of the environment particularly
through contamination of rivers and other water resources.
Master Plans in each of the ten municipalities focused on the technical,
organizational, institutional and financial management of SWM services, and were used to
guide implementation. In summary: a segregated system concept was implemented which
focuses on most cost-effective technology. Collection and transport of residential waste,
hospital waste, rubbish, tree pruning (poda,ao) are duly separated. From the separated
collection, the SWM program guides the municipalities to achieve, over a medium or long
term, and in a gradual manner, the segregation of trash at the source, separating the
recyclable materials, the biodegrading and the inert (passive). The project also financed the
equipment necessary to implement the program.



38
Cost Recovery: After numerous previous attempts to introduce user charges for
SWM, the municipality of Salvador successfully approved legislation to initiate collection
starting in January 1998. It has been reported that in the first 3 months, a total of
approximately R$ 7.6m has been collected. In addition a supplementary charge for
industrial and commercial users generates about R$600,000/month. Other municipalities,
which had already introduced SWM fees collected as part of the property tax, have now
switched to direct billing for solid waste services.
Special emphasis was given to the institutional aspects. For example, the itineraries
for the collection and sweeping proposed by municipal cleansing units (MPUC) were
carried out, adjusting them to the technical indexes recommended and to the local reality.
This action allowed the technical-operational evolution of the municipalities through the
training of staff, acquisition of equipment, introduction of new practices and routines, with
the consequent improvement in urban cleanliness.
A good standard of quality of services in urban cleanliness was achieved, with an
80% coverage of daily and regular collection, and 100% sweeping of all paved streets.
Special services are carried throughout all the urban area with pre-determined routines and
frequency. Daily hospital collection is made directly from all health establishments with
special vehicles for these types of collection.
The Selective Collection in Salvador: Special innovations have taken place in the
Municipality of Salvador, with more interesting financial results and creating, at the same
tiime, employment and preserving the environment. The program for selective collection
aims at recycling garbage, based on a work force of autonomous "junk-pickers" with the
contracting of recyclable materials in the so-called "Collection Stations". Thirteen stations
will eventually cater for a monthly commercialization of 600 ton/day of recyclables.
The program is already working in seven neighborhoods, with approximately 250
thousand people involved. Recyclable material is handed by the population at source to
"junk-pickers" with operating with hand-wheelbarrows. Thereafter material collected is
sent to the Sete Portas Shed (Galpao), which was converted and enlarged to work as a
sorting, stocking and commercializing center for recyclables. Since the selective collection
requires above all, a cultural change, the implementation model prioritizes strategies that
motivate the participation of the population.
Collection in areas of difficult access: As an alternative solution to respond to the
collection of garbage in the steep hills of Salvador, six dumpers (lixodutos) were put in
place - equipment formed by chutes and pillars of cement - manufactured by the
Development Company of Salvador - DESAL, a company linked to Salvador's Municipal
City Hall. It is technology perfectly appropriate for the vertical collection of garbage in
areas of difficult access for traditional collection vehicles, through the flowing of material
to a container of 5-m3 capacity. The dumpers were developed with the aim of not only
eliminating the propagation of diseases with the proper conditioning of garbage, but also
to minimize the environmental problems caused by the burning of residues and the piling



39
up of garbage on the hills. In addition, collection by wooden-carts pulled by animals for
inhabited developments of difficult access were implemented in the municipality of Dias
D'Avila. This was a successful experience that greatly helped on the cleaning of these
areas.
In other municipalities, to amplify the services for these critical areas, containers
were distributed near the places of no-access so that the population could dispose of their
garbage appropriately. Another solution was the use of a small compactor-collector (6-
m3 capacity) with lateral loading for historical centers and narrow streets, as in Sao
Francisco do Conde, Itaparica and Candeias.
Final Destination of Urban Garbage:   Four sanitary landfills have been
constructed for the final disposition of solid waste residues. Sanitary landfills were
adopted as the most adequate soluticin for the final disposition of solid waste residues,
because their technology have low costs, efficiency and easily operated, while considering
the environmental preservation. Associated to the implantation of the landfills, the project
established a series of actions to rehabilitate degraded areas of earlier landfills in existence.
Site selection was preceded by EIAs (RlMAs) and a study to evaluate aeronautical
risk from vultures (urubus). Shared management of the four landfills required a program
of work with municipalities to create conditions for their successful management.
Of the four, the Integrated Landfill of Camacari-Dias D'Avila has been operating
normally for over a year. A special management operation was carried out to guarantee
the beginning of performance within the most efficient services standard possible.
Annexed to the landfill, is the incinerator13 for hospital residues, with a burning capacity
up to 100 kg/hour of residues. Besides the municipalities of Camacari and Dias D'Avila
the landfill will serve the municipalities of Candeias, Simoes Filho, Lauro de Freitas,
Madre de Deus and Sao Francisco do Conde.
A complementary action for the Camacari Landfills was the construction of
Transfer of Garbage Station in the municipality of Dias D'Avila, aiming at reducing
operational costs in the transport of trash. The compactor-collectors go to this station
where the garbage is transferred to bigger containers of 30-m3 capacity and are
transported by an appropriate vehicle to the landfills shared in the municipality of
Camacari.
Still in pre-operational stage, under the responsibility of CONDER, are the
landfills: Metropolitan Center, Ferrolho and Ilha Integrada, which will cover the
remaining municipalities of MRS.
13 All the tests and adjustments for its proper functioning were perfonned in this incinerator, and
presented: adequate heat power, low chloride contents, low index of particle material (ashes), implying
the reduction of volume and weight of the leveled, as well as gases with the washing of materials, which
allows a greater control for the atmospheric polluents emission.



40
Environmental Education: A supplementary program was implemented on
environmental education which mobilized communities in the region and promoted the
adoption of new behaviors concerning urban cleanliness; proper conditioning of garbage;
respect to schedules and collection places and new habits of consumption aiming at
reducing and reusing and recycling materials; and concepts to improve the quality of
public cleanliness.
The Environmental Education Training gave 150 courses to a diverse public and
sections - municipal agencies, health and education professionals, communities'
leaderships, street-sweepers, entities representatives and communities associations,
housewives, merchants, students, etc. It also developed special projects (such as "Cinema
na Pra,a", which consists of showing educational movies outdoors), 47 gratuitous
cleanliness works, 32 theater-shops and paper recycling and plastic packaging. As a
dissemination strategy, the program formed more than 4.000 "multipliers"-- people in
charge of spreading the concepts of the program in their area of influence, promoting
active citizen participation, lobbying support from private and public agencies, and seeking
social control over cleanliness systems.
The results during this period were highly significant. Today, for example, the
hospital waste, when mixed with regular garbage, becomes a dangerous disseminator of
infectious diseases. Instead, the project has improved the specific collection in seven
municipalities of the region. Projects for selective collection are in implementation stage
in public schools and hospitals in the region; the street-sweepers in neighborhoods and
beaches are more frequent and several cities already constituted their Environmental
Education Nucleus.
Thus, initially an abstract concept for the most part of the population,
environmental education is nowadays effectively incorporated through actions and
practices, in the daily routine of thousands of residents in the municipalities in the MRS.
Complementing this environmental education work and aiming at promoting the
discussion and exchange of knowledge on the serious problem of final disposition of solid
waste residues all over the world, CONDER promoted, in Salvador, two technical
meetings on the question - the International Symposium of Garbage Destination, from
November 28 through 30, 1994, when the issue was discussed emphasizing the technical
and operational aspects; and the 2nd Symposium of Garbage Destination, which took
place in June 18-20, 1997, which prioritized the discussion of aspects relating to the
management of systems in the final destination of urban garbage.
Internal Rate of Return Calculation: It was not possible to estimate an internal
rate of return for SWM services for the ICR for two reasons: (i) the final disposal part of
the complete system--collection plus disposal--was recently implemented; and (ii) user
charges to be levied for this service--to serve as a proxy for benefits--did not materialize
until after the completion of the project; and (iii) capacity level cost data is not yet
available, making an estimate of cost effectiveness premature at this stage.



41
Awards: The State of Bahia, through CONDER, was awarded the Ecology Top
96, one of the most important environmental awards in Brazil. The award represented
recognition for the innovative character of the program, for the final disposition of solid
waste in the MRS, and for its publications on the technical s aspects, its solution through
the shared management of the sanitary landfill, thus creating an extra-municipal solution
for the problem. This project was also selected to be presented at the VI Iberian-
American Congress of Solid Waste Residues in Madrid, in November 1996.
Basic Sanitation and Urban Recovery Program
About 25% of project costs (US$18.9m) were allocated for basic sanitation (favela
up-grading) and some resettlement, in three river basins; the environmental recovery and
social promotion of Novos Alagados; and the rehabilitation of water-metering system
(micro-measurement). In addition, the recovery of 6 urban parks and recreation areas, and
maintenance in ten metropolitan municipalities, were financed under the project.
Improving the Sanitation Sewerage: The Bahia Company of Water and Sanitation
- EMBASA, the executing agency for these actions, enlarged the sewerage collection
network by 46 km and promoted residential links to the Barra, Lucaia and Pituba basins.
It improved the sewerage conditions in the area and maximized the use of equipment
already in place in the sanitation sewerage system of the city, which was operating with a
lesser capacity for the volume for which the system was planned.
The Basic Sanitation Program, which is being implemented by CONDER through
the Metropolitan Project, received a significant reinforcement as of 1995, when the State
Government started implementing the Bahia Azul Program, with very large investments in
sanitation sewerage. The Government of Bahia is investing about US$6.5 million to
deviate Camurugipe and Lucaia rivers, carrying sewers, during dry season, to the
underwater drainage in Rio Vermelho - works almost concluded. Besides that, the
pumping capacity at the Station of Pre-Conditioning in Rio Vermelho was enlarged to
enable the expansion of the collection network through almost all the neighborhoods of
Salvador and its suburban areas.
Revitalizing the Micro-Measuring System:
To optimize the sanitation sewerage actions implemented, a special effort was
made to revitalize the micro-measuring system, where a large number of water-meters
were no longer working, resulting on a significant water losses. 30,000 water meters were
installed, in order to have a feasible collection service for the water supply and sanitation
sewerage, enabling the return of investments made, beyond contributing to the reduction
of water-waste levels of treated water in the region.



42~~~~~~~~~~~
($an ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reco very in Novo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~~.
-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . .
Th~~~~~~~~ environmental recovely and social promotion ofNovos Alagados is treaed with~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..~~
special mp  e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bevat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ it r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pzesents the model thatth~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Government of B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hia considers the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
most app  priate for the uthani~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ation~~~~~~~~~~~~~



43
Low Income Settlement and Urban AMaintenance
With the main objective of serving the low-income population in local basic
infrastructure (paving roads, implementing stairways, drainage, water supply network,
sewerage sanitation, public lighting), offering of common equipment (construction of
schools, nurseries and health rooms) and recovery of degrading areas, six actions in six
neighborhoods in Salvador were implemented (Alto da Capelinha, Boa Vista de Sao
Caetano, Campinas de Brotas, Engenho Velho da Federagao and Sertanejo).
Equipment for urban maintenance was acquired to furnish the municipalities with
the existing infrastructure maintenance, besides the paving of roads in peripheral
neighborhoods and construction and urbanization of squares.
Along with the settlement infrastructure, a program on sanitary education was
developed aimed at making communities aware and involved with the maintenance
improvements implemented.
Re-estimates of internal economic rates of return (ERRs): Re-estimates of internal
economic rates of return (ERRs) of sample sub-projects indicate that the investments
made were worthwhile from an econormic point of view. ICR re-estimates of the two of
largest components-upgrading and basic sanitation-which accounted for more than one
third of total project costs at both appraisal and completion, indicate an ERR of 17.4%,
slightly higher than the 16.4% estimated for these two components at appraisal. At
completion, the ERR for upgrading was 24.6%, a percentage significantly higher than the
16.0% estimated at appraisal, thanks to the dramatic improvement in living conditions
resulting from the "Novos Alagados" upgrading sub-project.
Recovery of Urban Parks
Although not envisioned at the time of project appraisal, the State government
through CONDER embarked on an imaginative and much needed program to save a
portion the MRS's environmental and cultural heritage, that was severely threatened.
The metropolitan region and its area of influence, present diverse ecosystems
comprehended by lakes, rivers, mangroves, dunes, forests, coconut trees which due to the
urban and industrial expansion, is todlay in a process of environmental degradation. With
the objective of sustainable development, the priority was given to preventative and
protective measures to enable an appreciation of nature, offering new recreation options,
leisure and culture for all the population of the MRS and tourists. The primary objective
was to recover physical-environmental urban spaces, optimizing investments already
made.
The parks improved through investments in physical infrastructure, sanitation and
ownership legalization were: Parque do Abaete, Parque Costa Azul, Parque Pituacu,
Parque Sao Bartolomeu and the Municipal Arboretum of Mata dos Oitis.



44
Abaete Park: This park represents the only dunes-ecosystem in the country in
terms of biodiversity and one of the trademarks of Bahia. It was suffering from a severe
case of abandonment and environmental degradation, with an intense process of illegal
occupation, with the area invaded by clandestine developments and settlements,
contributing to de-stabilizing the fragile ecological equilibrium of its dunes and polluting
its abundant water sources.
A survey commissioned by CONDER revealed the existence of more than 40 legal
bills and decrees during the last 12 years, relating to the preservation of Abaete's
ecosystem of lagoons and dunes that had been passed without any having been effectively
carried out. On the contrary, the area was in a continued process of degradation. The
invasions grew rapidly, the vegetation was constantly deforested, which withdrew the
shadow from the dunes and contributed to its destruction, and raw sewage was being
discharged into the famous lagoon, a traditional "postcard" of Salvador.
Based on that survey, a vigorous urban recovery program was prepared, that
would rescue the image of dunes and lagoons, therefore guaranteeing environmental
preservation and rational use of the area for leisure and tourism.
That works, which was based on a complete and detailed environmental diagnostic
of the area, consisted of equipment implementation, construction and recovery of access
roads surrounding the park, besides the environmental reconstruction of dunes and de-
pollution of lagoons. Based on the cadaster effected, a relocation of illegal settlement
inhabitants was negotiated. In areas defined for the transfer of these inhabitants, such as
areas for commerce and services, sports, community center and school, urban equipment
was installed.
A Commercial Center, the Cultural Center and the Wash-women's House -
characters linked to the legends and traditions of Abaete's Lagoon were constructed and
installed in the area of Parque Abaete.
Costa Azul Park: Costa Azul, until a short time ago was a degraded sea coast in
Salvador, also marked by the discharge of raw sewage, piling of debris and a bad smell. It
has now been transformed. The park (55,000m2) now boasts leisure, sports, cultural and
education equipment, and an installed capacity of 10 thousand guests simultaneously.
The Costa Azul Park was constructed along with the detour works for
Camareugipe river and its sewers, in dry weather, for EMBASA's network, through the
construction of an interceptor, opening perspectives for a fast de-pollution of the area.
A place to be used by the whole city, particularly the inhabitants of Costa Azul,
Pituba, Caminho das Arvores, Jardim de Alah and users of the Sea Coast, the new park
has two playgrounds, soccer field, bicycle paths and jogging paths in different levels, two
skating rinks, four restaurants, outdoors amphitheater for 600 seats, gymnastic equipment,



45
light fountain, plant nursery as a mini-arboretum for seasonal production and
administration building with parking for 150 spaces.
An overpass on Avenida Otavio Mangabeira was also constructed linking the
biking path at the Sea Coast with the park and a bridge of 35 meters over Rio Camurujipe
Inter-linking the park with Avenida Magalhaes Neto, facilitating the access to inhabitants
in that area. Within the park is also a second grade school with 18 classrooms, three
laboratories and a public library.
Pituapu Park: The interventions in Pituacu Park are also examples of successful actions in
that area. Pituacu today is one of the rarest ecological Brazilian parks in urban areas,
besides being in one of the largest public leisure spaces in the capital of Bahia, with
playgrounds, jogging paths, children playground, bike paths, entertainment decks, kiosks,
restaurants, pubs and eateries.
Pituacu is now finalizing a new master plan, defining the preservation areas and
those where developments will be allowed, in a way to create own resources for the
maintenance and conservation of the park. The plan reinforces the development policy
defined for the area, aiming to improve leisure and entertainment options and to guarantee
the preservation of its 450 acres of forest.
Other Parks: The Park of Sao Bartolomeu, sacred place for afro-Brazilian religions and
one of the last significant remnants of ithe Atlantic Forest in the municipality of Salvador,
is another example of local intervention that was highly degraded.  Besides the
environmental recovery, the revamping process for the park included works of
urbanization and administrative infrastructure - contemplating about 1800 square meters,
with the construction of six commercial modules, entry-gate control for pedestrians,
sentry-boxes and accesses to vehicles, high-leveled watch posts (in an area where security
was one of the major concerns) and a building for the Park Police.
The Municipal Arboretum of Mata dos Oitis was the subject of an agreement
between CONDER and the Municipal City Hall (Prefeitura) of Salvador to the execution
of recovery works, infrastructure and preservation of green areas - involving the
acquisition of equipment and the construction of an administrative building, a new
greenhouse and a "nursery" for propagation of"mudas'.



Metropolitan Project Of Salvador
Table 7: Technical Assistance And Studies Included In The Project
Study               Definition at                    Present Situation                   Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefinition
Political-Institutional   Study defined in the Appraisal on    The study was divided in 4 sections:  The study became available
Alternatives for the    Metropolitan Administration  regional social-economic; administrative  to other Brazilian
Metropolitan Region   component, to propose political-    finance; metropolitan spatial; and  metropolitan regions and
of Salvador         institutional alternatives capable of   national political-institutional which  sent to Congress with a
inserting the metropolitan regions in  were developed together with  subsidy for projects
the Brazilian Federative system.  CONDER, Research Foundations of    institutionalizing
Bahia Federal University and IBAM -    metropolitan regions in
Brazilian Institute for Municipal   Brazil.
Administration and at the same time two
researches were conducted: one on
metropolitan region leaderships and one
on public opinion ("survey"). The final
inclusive study was concluded in 1988.
Master Plan for Ilha    Study defined in the Appraisal on    Prepared jointly by CONDER and  The study, after seminars
de Itaparica        the Metropolitan Administration  Architecture Graduate School of Bahia   with the municipal
component, to adjust existing   Federal University, with sectoral   populations of Ilha de
property growth expansion in Ilha    diagnosis done on social-economic,  Itaparica, was made
de Itaparica to common interests,    environment, transportation,   available to City Halls,
according to the implementation of  antropologic aspects and physical and    serving as the basis to
urban mechanisms, configuring a  institutional restrictions on use of the    implement the
program for the disposition and  land, resulted in the construction of a  municipalities urban
occupation of the use of the land.    model to use and occupy the land in Ilha  legislation.
de Itaparica and an urban legislation
draft. The study was concluded in 1988.



Metropolitan Project Of Salvador
Table 7: Technical Assistance And Studies Induded In The Project
Study            Definition at                      Present Situation                     Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefinition
Special Studies for Studies defined in the Appraisal on    CONDER prepared studies, in 1990,  These studies were used to
MRS              the Metropolitan Administration    about the evolution of population,    subsidize the regional
component, aimed at subsidizing the   employment, consumption and income in  planning action in the
planning process, by updating     the Metropolitan Region of Salvador and   Metropolitan Region of
information necessary to interpret the  a survey on the potentially available land   Salvador.
metropolitan spatial dynamics.    and the environmental heritage in the
municipalities of the MRS.
Study to divide    Defined in the Appraisal on the  Prepared by CONDER in 1990, consisting  This study served as basis for
the land in narcels  Metropolitan Administration    of analysis regarding water resources  the definition of state
component, aiming to furnish      protection, metropolitan legislation for    legislation in areas of special
elements for the control of urban land  areas of special interest, natural resources  interest for the
parcelling, in areas of special interest.  protection, green spaces systems,  environmental protection
protection of the archeological and   point of view. It was used
cultural heritage, pollution control and  afterwards as a subsidy in the
cultivable lands. A guide manual for the   process of establishing
urban parcelling and a decree on      Environmental Protection
parcelling the land in areas of special  Areas - APAS.
interest.
Development Plan  Study defined in the Appraisal on the  Initiating a series of studies defined in the  The Democratic School of
for the Historical   Technical Assistance to the Historical  Metropolitan Project, in 1990, a study  the Historical Center was
Social Center of   Center component, aimed at       was prepared to define a group of actions  established, comprising a
Salvador         establishing an Integrated Education   to establish the Democratic School of the  group of six school units, a
System for the Historical Center of    Historical Center Project.       cafeteria, workshops and
ISalvador area.                                                         Iproduction center.



Metropolitan Project Of Salvador
Table 7: Technical Assistance And Studies Included In The Project
Study            Definition at                      Present Situation                     Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefinition
Master Plans for   Defined in the amendment of the  Through consulting firms contracted in    The Master Plans for Urban
Urban Cleanliness  Urban Cleanliness Program to     1991, extensive diagnose on existing  Cleanliness for the
in the           subsidize urban cleanliness actions  urban cleanliness services in MRS   municipalities of Salvador,
municipalities of   established in the MRS municipalities. municipalities, complemented with  Cama9ari, Candeias, Dias
MRS                                                 detailed information as to the physical-    D'Avila, Itaparica, Lauro de
territorial, demographic, economic,   Freitas, Madre de Deus, Sao
physical and social infrastructure and  Francisco do Conde, Sim6es
physical-territorial organization aspects.   Filho e Vera Cruz, were the
Based on those studies, proposals for  basis to implement the
projects, works, equipment, management  amended actions in the urban
policy and environmental education were  cleanliness systems of those
prepared, corroborating the Urban     municipalities. These master
Cleanliness Systems Concept, Services    plans were edited and
Plan, Management Model and Monitoring  distributed to entities on the
Plans.                                urban cleanliness area,
serving as a reference to
prepare other master plans of
urban cleanliness for
municipalities outside MRS.
Studies and      Defined in the amendment to the    Contracted to a specialized consulting  The Metropolitan Center
Report on        Urban Cleanliness Program due to a   firm, EIA/RIMA was prepared based on   Landfill's EIA/RIMA was
Environmental    legal requirement to evaluate possible  defined rules by CEPRAM - State  approved by environmental
Impact -         environmental impacts deriving from   Council for Environmental Protection and  entities, allowing its
EIA/RIMA for the the establishment of the Metropolitan  CRA - Center for Environmental    construction and operation.
Metropolitan      Center Landfill and to define     Resources and pursuant to existing
Center Landfill    adequate protection measures.   legislation.



Metropolitan Project Of Salvador
Table 7: Technical Assistance And Studies Included In The Project
Study            Definition at                    Present Situation                    Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefinition
Studies and      Defined in the amendment to the  Contracted to a specialized consulting  The Sanitary Integrated
Report on        Urban Cleanliness Program due to a   firm, EIA/RIMA was prepared based on   Island Landfill's EIA/RIMA
Environmental    legal requirement to evaluate possible  approved terms of reference by CEPRAM   was approved by
Impact -         environmental impacts deriving from   - State Council for Environmental  environmental entities,
EIA/RIMA for the the establishment of the Sanitary  Protection and CRA - Center for    allowing its construction and
Sanitary         Integrated Island Landfill and to  Environmental Resources and pursuant to  operation.
Integrated Island   define adequate protection measures.  existing legislation.
Landfill                                                                                   .-
Environnental    Defined in the amendment of the  Through contracting a Non-Governmental Establishment of
Education        Urban Cleanliness Program aiming to  Organization -NGO, with extensive  Environmental Education
Program          mobilize the communities in the  experience in sanitation education   Program in the MRS, with
municipalities of MRS, and to    programs, an Environmental Education    establishment of municipal
stimulate the adoption of new    Program was prepared for the MRS     Environmental Education
behaviors, particularly in the proper   municipalities and implemented within the  Nucleus, 150 information
conditioning of garbage, respecting    Urban Cleanliness Program ih the  courses for various public
schedules and places of collection,    Metropolitan Project.          and sections, training of
change in consumption habits seeking                                  4.000 agents to spread the
the reduction of garbage production,                                  program's concepts, "free
recycling materials and general                                       cleaning" events and
aspects to improve the quality of                                     workshops on recycling
urban cleanliness.                                                    materials. This program has
been spread due to requests
from universities, schools,
community associations and
several Brazilian states.



Metropolitan Project Of Salvador
Table 7: Technical Assistance and Studies Included in the Project
Study            Definition at                      Present Situation                     Impact of Study
_Appraisal/Redefinition
Alternative      Defined in the Appraisal under the  Prepared in 1995 through agreement with  This study has guided the
Models for Shared  Technical Assistance to the Historical  UNESCO, this study resulted in the  government in defining
Management in    Center component, as part of the   presentation of alternative models for  managerial action in the
the Historical   studies aimed to consolidate the   Shared Management appropriate for the    Historical Center of Salvador
Center           investments effected on recovering    administration and maintenance of the  and its relation between the
the area of the Historical Center of    recovered area of the Historical Center    public and private sectors
Salvador, and to identify new    identifying the roles of public and private  there.
investment possibilities in the area.    institutions, that have direct or indirect,
interests and responsibilities on the
Historical Center.
Study for        Defined in the Appraisal under the  Prepared in 1995, through agreement with  The proposals on this study
Circulation and    Technical Assistance to the Historical  UNESCO, this study defined     were implemented by the
Transportation in   Center component, as part of the  improvements on the circulation and  construction of a parking
the Historical   studies aimed to consolidate      transportation in the area, capable of  garage-building,
Center           investments effected to recuperate the  contributing to the revamping the  improvement of traffic lights,
Historical Center of Salvador, and to   Historical Center.              orderly circulation of
identify new investment possibilities                                   vehicles, accessibility, public
in the area.                                                            transportation and better
security traffic conditions for
vehicles and pedestrians.



Metropolitan Project Of Salvador
Table7: Technical Assistance And Studies Included In The Project
Study            Definition at                      Present Situation                Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefinition
Evaluation of    Defined in the Appraisal, under the    This study, prepared in agreement    The study evidenced positive
Impact on        Technical Assistance to the Historical  with UNESCO, measured the social-  impacts, such as private
Investments for    Center component, as part of the  economic changes resulting from  investments in the area, expansion
the Pelourinho's   studies aimed at consolidate the  investments by Bahia State       of income and employment in the
recovery         investments to recuperate the      Government on the Historical      established economic activities,
Historical Center of Salvador and to   Center, evaluating the qualitative and  qualitative changes of those
identify new investment possibilities   quantitative changes from this  activities in terms of its diversity
in the area.                      intervention and made             and modernization, increased
recommiendations to mnaxirm-ize  tourism and improvement on
positive impacts.                standard of life for the population.
The recommendations were             Ln
adopted by the State Government,
as to technical assistance to local
entrepreneurs, in order to take
advantage of new opportunities
and to facilitate the qualitative
transformation process of
companies in the area,
compatibility of leisure and
recreation aspects with the existing
residential aspect and improvement
of local infrastructure.



Metropolitan Project Of Salvador
Table 7: Technical Assistance And Studies Induded In The Project
Study            Definition at                      Present Situation                     Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefinition
Urban Dynamics   Defined in the Appraisal, under the    Study developed from agreement signed    Study concluded in 1998, not
for Investment   Technical Assistance to the Historical with UNESCO in 1997, with the objective  yet implemented.
Opportunities in    Center component, as part of studies   of identifying the construction potential in
the Historical   aimed to consolidate investments in   the area of the Historical Center, through
Center Area      the recuperation of the Historical  the quantification and qualification of
Center of Salvador, and to identify    potential enterprises, in order to serve as a
new investment possibilities in the  basis for planning strategies to implement
area.                             these enterprises.
Training Program   Defined in the Appraisal, under the    Study prepared jointly with Federal  Implemented through
for masons        Technical Assistance to the Historical  University of Bahia, Social Industry  agreements between
Center component, as part of studies   Service - SESI, and National Learning  CONDER, SESI/SENAI, and
aimed to consolidate investments in    Service aimed to define an education and   Federal University of Bahia,
the recuperation of the Historical  qualification program for civil     with 800 workers since 1995.
Center of Salvador, and to identify    construction workers, in order to promote
new investment possibilities in the  better quality of masonry, increase
area.                             productivity while promoting writing and
reading courses for the workers.
Research about    Defined in the Appraisal, under the    Prepared together with UNESCO, this    It was used for proposals for
the Historical    Technical Assistance to the Historical  research to evaluate the influence that the  the development of the
Center in the     Center component, as part of studies  Historical Center has on Salvador's  Historical Center of Salvador.
municipality of    aimed to consolidate investments in   population, both on the cultural and
Salvador         the recuperation of the Historical  leisure attractions, as well as their idea of
Center of Salvador, and to identify    the Pelourinho, was concluded in 1995.
new investment possibilities in the
I area.



Metropolitan Project Of Salvador
Table 7: Technical Assistance And Studies Included In The Project
Study            Definition at                      Present Situation                     Impact of Study
._______________  AppraisaltRedefinition
Survey on the    Defined in the Appraisal, under the    Prepared jointly with UNESCO, through a This survey was used in
Historical Center   Technical Assistance to the Historical  contracted consulting firm, this survey  several studies for the
of Salvador       Center component, as part of studies  was conducted with the users of   Historical Center and, in
aimed to consolidate investments in   recovered space in the Historical Center   particular, in the study for
the recuperation of the Historical  to measure the flow in the area, to  Shared Management
Center of Salvador, and to identify    evaluate the present situation as to  Alternatives.
new investment possibilities in the  services offered and to evaluate users
area.                             expectations as to new services to be
offered and the continuity of the Historical
Center recovery, was concluded in 1995.
Model for         Defined in the amendment to the   Prepared in agreement with CETEAD,    The study served as basis to      >
Management of    Urban Cleanliness Program, to      agency of the Bahia Federal University,   implement the model of
Solid Waste      analyze existing models of solid waste  the study was concluded in 1997, from the management of residues in
Residues in the    residues management in Brazil and  existing situation in the MRS with the  MRS, compatible with the
MRS               international experiences in this area,  adoption of shared sanitary landfills for    existing final destination
and to propose management models  the garbage final destination, and based on  system.
susceptible to be adopted in the  national experience and some other
Metropolitan Region of Salvador.  countries, defined proposals for the model
of solid waste residues management in the
MRS, taking into consideration legal,
institutional, managerial and operational
I aspects.



Metropolitan Project Of Salvador
Table 7: Technical Assistance and Studies Included in the Project
Study            Definition at                      Present Situation                     Impact of Study
Evaluation and    Study defined in the amendment of    This study, contracted to a consulting  This study, besides
Control of Vulture Urban Cleanliness Program of     firm, aimed to evaluating aeronautical risk  "smoothing" the choice of the
Population in     Salvador.                         posed by vultures in the MRS,         Metropolitan Center Landfill,
Areas of                                            determining and analyzing attraction  has been consulted by various
Aeronautical Risk                                   points, especially in the existing "dumps"   agencies for urban cleanliness
(lix6es) near Salvador's airport, and  in the country, and other
evaluating the impact of establishing the    national and international
sanitary landfills in areas close to the  environmental entities,.
airport.
Study on Cost    Defined during the supervision     The study was contracted to a consulting   The study served as basis for
Recovery for the   missions of IBRD, in order to look    firm, based on Metropolitan Information   the structure of the present
Metropolitan      for financing alternatives for the  System, municipal financial analysis and    INFORMS - Geographical
Information       continuity of the Metropolitan    concessionary companies for public    Information System for the
System - SIM     Information System of CONDER.      services, proposed management model for Metropolitan Region of
the system in order to guarantee its  Salvador.
effectiveness and to maximize resulting
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  benefits.



55
Table 8: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate       Actual
(US$m)              (US$m)
Source                                      Total              Total
Bank Loans                                   55.0              36.4
Fed. Govt.                                   30.0              00.0
Bahia State and Municipalities               32.3              32.1
BNH CEF Loans                                33.7              08.5
Total                                       151.0              77.0
Source: Appraisal and Relatorio de
Avaliacao Final



56
Salvador Metropolitan Development Project
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Internal Economic
Rate of Return (%)
Components                  Appraisal Estimate    Actual Estimate
1. Upgrading                      16.0%               24...... .....
2. Basic Sanitation               17.0%         ''
TOTAL:         16.4%
Primary Roads                     17.0%         -     an
3. Solid Waste                   13.0%          se       b
*Note to table:
ICR estimates of internal rates of return are based upon a sample of investments for each component which
together account for 25% of final project costs. These ICR estimates apply the same methodology of economic
analysis used at appraisal, which includes the use of a time stream of imputed rental values to measure the
benefits of upgrading projects and additional tariff revenue to quantify the benefits of basic sanitation
projects. Other components not implemented by the project-notably Primary Roads and Productive
Activities are excluded from the comparative assessment made here. It was not possible to estimate an
internal rate of return for the Solid Waste component for the ICR for two reasons: (i) only the final disposal
part of the complete system-collection plus disposal-was implemented; and (ii) user charges to be levied
for this service-to serve as a proxy for project benefits-did not materialize until after the completion of the
project.



57
Salvador Metropolitan Development Project
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement        Section      Covenant Present                           Description                              Comment
Type    Status
Loan          2.03                        NYD   Closing date to be 12/31/94. Revised to 6/30197                Closing date is
Agreement                                                                                                      6/30197.
3.Olaii              4        C    Borrower to cause state and CONDER to make funds available for
project
3.01aiii             3        C    Borrower to make funds available for FEREM in time table acceptable to
Bank
3.03b                9        C    Stale/CONDER to submit quartery progress report.
3.03b                9        C    State(CONDER to provide PCR upon completion                    Reviewed
______ _  _  _________________________________________________         5/20/98
4.01a.b.c.           3        C    Maintenance of separate Project Accounts, Auditing of project accounts.  Consitently late.
Audited accounts to be sent to Bank                           Qualified audits.
4.02b.d              1        C    Audit of Special Account
Sched 1 3b           3        C    Municipalities in project must have entered into FEREM sub loan
agreement and participation agreement
Sched 1 3 iii        2        C    Approval and implementation of multi-year budgetary program to increase
reveinue by Salvador
Sched 1 3 dii        2        C    Camacari approval and implementation of multi-year budgetary program
Proi.         2.01a                4        C    Bahia and CONDOR to provide funds needed for project
Agreement    2.05b                 4        C    Bahia to make capital contribution to FEREM
2.05b                4        C    Ba_a to make loan proceeds available to FEREM
2.06b                5        C    CONDER to enter into convenios with municipalitism design stads.
procurement, accounting, etc.
2.07b                2        C    Beneficiaries of FEREM sub loans to give undertakings to recover costs
2.07f                3        C    Surplus FEREM receipts to be made available for financing urban
development in RMS
2.07i.iv             5        C    CONDER to assist municipalities other than Salvador and Camacar to
prepare financial action programs
Sched 2 Al A2       10        C    Annual submission of amendments to Salvador and Financial action plan
and implementation plan
Sched 2 A2           5        C    Salvador to complete expansion to cadastre
Status:             C    = Complied with
CD = Compliance after Delay
NC = Not Complied with
SOON = Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP = Complied with Partially
NYD = Not Yet Due
Covenant Class:
1 Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-Sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatoryfinstitutional action
13 Other



58
Salvador Metropolitan Development Project
Table 11: Compliance with OM Statements.
There was no significant lack of compliance with applicable Operational manual Statements.
The most relevant are: Operational Directive 4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement); and Operational
Directive 11.00 (Procurement).



59
Salvador Metrolpolitan Development Project
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                             Actual
Week    US$ ('000)
Lending development                               15.5        35.5
Pre-appraisal                                     38.5        75.4
Appraisal                                         64.9       122.7
Negotiations                                       8.1        18.6
Supervision                                      139.9       395.8
Completion                                         6.6        20.4
|TOTAL                                           273.5       668.4
Source: Cost Accounting System (COSR33)



60
Salvador Metropolitan Development Project (Loan 2681-BR)
Implementation Completion Report
Table 13: Bank Resources: Mission
Stages of Project   Month/      Number | Days   Specialized          Program    Rating    Types of Problems                TM
Cycle              year            of       in    staff skills
persons y  Field   represented [/
Through
appraisal
Negotiations
through Board
Approval
_ 11111 _r
Supervision
l.Supervision     September                                                              The need of full commitment by    TM1
1986                                                                   CONDER is emphasized.
2.Supervision     March                                                 1          1                                       TM1
1987
3.Supervision     January                                               2          1     Severe budget and other financial  TM1
1988                                                                   constraints (CP funds shortage)
reported. Project a year behind
schedule. Bureacratic delays by
MHU in processing disbursements.
4.Supervision     August                           Urb; Econ;           2         2      CPF shortages. Delays in processing   TM1
1988                                                                   disbursements. Lack of support in
Brasilia.
5.Supervision     Oct              2               Econ; Fin;           3         2      Proj. management; Salvador in     TM1
1989                                                                   debt- fnancial crises for city.
CPF shortages. GOB wishes to
transfer loan to State.
6.Supervision     March            4               Urb; Econ;           3         2      State takes action to transfer project   TMI
1990                             Fin; Econ.                            from GOB to state (Borrower).
Salvador MR's fianaces remain
poor.
7.Supervision     July             2               Fin; Econ.           3         2      Details of restructuring projects  TM2
1990                                                                   under discussion. Municipalities to
take over CPF responsibilities of
GOB. Procurement problems-
garbage trucks not eligible for
financing
8.Supervision     March            3               Eng Fin; Econ.       3         2      Cancellation ofUS$15million is    TM2
1991                                                                  recommended. Road procurement
recommended for rebidding,
9.Supervision     June                             Eng; Fin; Econ       3         2      Reformulation of project completed.  TM2
1991                             Eng                                   Five priority components included
from Orig. 20 sub-components.
Now include roads; SW; sanitation;
cadastre up-grading; and TA.



61
Stages of Project   Month/     Number   Days   SpeciaLlized        Program   Rating   Types of Problems                TM
Cycle             year            of        in    staff sldllsl
persons    Field  represented 1/
10. Supervision    January        2               Fin; Econ                           Total allocated for Roads        TM2
1992                                                                component plus portion of
unallocated funds ($18.4m) was
__________  __________  _________  cancelled.
1 l.Supervision  April            3               EngSWV; Fin;       2          2     Major effort on relaunching      TM2
1992                            Econ.                               program after loan amendment.
New TM assumes project
12.Supervision   November         4               OpA; Fin; OpO;     2          2     Project moving along satisfactorily.   TM3
1992                            Econ                                 Substitution by state and
municipalities for $Im of uneligible
expenses discussed
13.Supervision   March            2               OpO; ConE          2          2     Procurement docs. (water meters)    TM3
1993                                                                released before Bank's no objection.
Warning issued. garbage Tax for
industrial /commercial users is
delayed.
14.Supervision   August           3               Con/Cadastre;      2          2     Project reported going well.     TM3
1993                            ConsSW;                              Garbage tax implemented. Not well
OpO                                 recieved. Audits late.
15.Supervision   December         2               ConP;              2          1     Technical issues on SWM          TM3
1993                            OpO                                  component Landfills sites awaiting
env. approvals
16.Supervision   March            2               DivC;              2          1     Project going well (beyond       TM3
1994                            Sr. OpO                              expectations). ExterL of 1st.
Closing Date is requested. State
auditors (TCE) have raised issues
on 1992 accounts.
17.Supervision   July             I               Sr. Opo             S         S     Good progress continues.         TM3
1994                                                                 Disbursements "spectacular" earlier
slow to a trickle as MBES is
withholding transfer of funds.
SEAIN still studying request for
extension.
1S.Supervision   October          2               ConS WE;            S         S     Progress continues satisfactory. Inst-  TM3
1994                            Sr. Opo                              arrangements for operating land fills
requested. Novos Alagados project
is introduced into project Cadastre
and historic center component going
well. Change of Borrower from
GOB to State still being
mvestigated. Loan extended to
Dec.31, 1994.
19.Supervision   May              2               Con;                S         S     Disbursement delayed, because    TM3
1995                            Sr. OpO                             convenio between GOB and State
for transfer offunds has not been
signed Rain delays constr. on
landfills. One contract bankrupt on
basic sanitation component State
request funding for parking garage
__________                             _______    ________    _______  in historic ($2m). Mission agrees.
20. Supervision    November       1               Sr. OpO                              Convenio signed. Disbursements
1985                                                                up. ENVIRIMA delays on main
landfill site for Salvador. EMBASA
delayed 12 months in accepingbid
for watermeters. Only one response
for cadastre component Another
.__________  _______  ______  _____       _____  Exten. to CD is requested. SEAIN



62
Stages of Project   Month!     Number   Days   Specialized         Program   Rating   Types of Problems                TM
Cycle             year            of       in    staff skills/
persons    Field  represented I/
untertakes to explore alternatenative
for flow of funds to bypass
SEPURB.
21.Supervision   March            3               ConSW;              S         S     Loan extended for 2 nd. time to   TM3
1996                            ConCadastre;                        December 31, 1996. Bid analysis
Sr OpO                              delayed on Salvador land-
fill.Camacari operating
satisfactorily. CONDERto hire
consultant for study on O&M.
Bids for Cadastre too high Bids
cancelled. Significant tax collection
improvements where land policy
has been implemented.
22.Supervision   September        4               Div.C;              S         S     Project setbacks. Bankruptcies and    TM4
1996                            Sr. Anthro;                         excessive rains delay works on
ConsSW                              SWM component Management and
Fin.                                technical problems on Novos
Alagados and GIS/ Salvador
cadastre. Audit reports for 1995 are
qualified as CONDER has failed to
maintian projects accounts
separately from its other expenses.
A 3rd. Extension to CD is requested
=_____________  __________  ________  ______  _____________  ________  _______  to    June    30,  1997.97.
23.Supervision   February         3               Reset;              S         S     Limited mission on Novos Alagados  TM4
1997                            Sr Anthro;                          component.Delayed as contractor
Envir/Reset                         perfonming badly and has financial
Pr. Advisor                         difficulties. Agreed actions on
community support for resettlement
delayed. Discussions to continue
second phase under PRODUR.
Delays in contracting out study for
O&M of landfill sites, and for Tech.
management support, include.
training of municipalities.
Excessive rains delays completion
of landfill sites. Hints at a posible
4th extension to Closing Date.
24.Supervision   June             1        5      Fin.                S         S                                      TM4
1997       1           1        1       L_
Completion
25.Completion    December                                           NIA       N/A                                      TM1
1997
Note: The above list does not include some very short additional visits from Bank staff members and consultants as stop-overs of
other Bank missions.
1/Key to specialization
Con      Consultant
ConE     Consultant Economist
ConP     Power Engineer Consultant
ConSW    Solid Waste Consultant
ConSWE  Consultant Solid Waste Engineer
DivC     Division Chief
Envir.    Environment
Econ     Economist
Eng      Engineer
EngSW    Solid Waste Engineer
Fin      Financial Analyst
OpA      Operations Assistant
OpO      Operations Officer
Reset    Resettlement
Sr. Anthro Sr. Antrhopologist
Sr OpO   Sr. Operations Officer



63
Appendix A
BORROWERS COMMENTS ON BANK DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
1.    Incoming fax dated June 9,1998B from the Secretariat of International Affairs
(SEAIN) Ministry of Planning an Budget, Brasilia, Brazil.
2.    Incoming fax dated June 8, 1998 from -- CONDER -- The Executing Agency on
behalf of the State of Bahia.



09/06 '98 18:01 550612254022      GAB/SEAIN                              Pg. 01
64
MINSTZRIO DO PLAIEJANTO E ORgAMMNTO
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
FAX N.Jj  /98                    Brasilia,O9 de junho de 1998
PABA:                 BRZz ):NZZ3S
Departamento de FinanCas,Setor Pzblico
e Infra-estrutura / Banco Mundial
FAX:                  n. 001(202) 522-3552
DE:                   ROBERTO BASTOS CAR.R 4IO
Coordenador de Avaliacao de Desempenho
da SEAIN / MPO
FAX:                  n. (061) 225-4022
n' de P&ginas: I.         OBS:  Em  caLso  de  mA  transm.issAo
(incluindo capa)               ligar para
In case of a bad transmission,
please call
(06_) 225-7185
Prezado Senhor.
Manifestamos  nossa  concord&ncia  com  a minuta  do
Relat6rio   de   Termino   de   Execucao   do   Proj eto.  de
Desenvolvimento Metropolitano de Salvador, Empr6sti-mo 2681-
BR, destacando que os resultados verificados poderAo ser
utilizados como subsidios na preparag&o e implementaqAo de
futuro3 projetos similares no Brasil.
Atenciosamente
fqL'.  JUN 09'-  f        .
JUN 09 1t.S8-



65
(translation)
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND BUDGET
Secretari;at of International Affairs
FAXNo. 1117                                                            Brasilia, June09 1998
FOR:                      BRAZ MENEZES
Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure
FAX:                      No.    (202)l 522-3552
FROM: _|                  ROBERTO BASTOS CARREIRO
Coordinator of    of Implementation of SEAIN/MPB
FAX:                      No. (061) 225-4022
Dear sir.
We confirm our full agreement with the draft of the implementation completion report for the Salvador
Metropolitan Project, Loan 26681-BR, and wish to highlight that the lessons learned should be used and
incorporated in the preparation and implementation of future similar projects in Brazil.
Sincerely
Roberto Bastos Carreiro



JUM-e9-98 02:36 PM  CONDER CTM                         0712359127                P.02
66
Companhla de DenvolvImento da
Regliao etropolitana de Salvador
OF. DIPRE.CTM N-234/98
Salvador, 08 de junho de 1998
Ref.: Contrato de Empr6stimo 2681 -BR
Prezado Senhor
Acusamos o recebimento da minuta do Relat6rio de Conclusao da
Jmplementagao do Projeto Metropolitano de Salvador (Acordo de Emprdstimo
2681-BR, em 29 de maio de 1988.
As observa9des e avalia#oes, feitas em quase sua totalidade, coincidem com
as da CONDER e retratam as condig6es e os resultados da implementabio
do Projeto. Entretanto estamos enviando em anexo, para a sua apreciago,
alguns comenttrios que traduzem tambem a 6tica da CAR e da SEPLANTEC
sobre esse Relat6rio.
Atenciosamente
Gencrio      outo
Diretor-Presidente
llm Sr.
Dr. Bras Menezes
M.D. Task Manager
Finance, Public Setor, and Infrastructure Dept. (FPSI)
WORLD BANK
Washington D.C. - USA
Colina de Sio Lizaro, 203 - Federagio - Tel.: 33946599 - Fax: 245-1563 - CEP 40210-720.- Salvador - Bahta



JUN-e9-98 02:37 PM  COHDER CTM                         0712359127               P. O3
67
Comentirios e eseolrecimentos sobre o Relat6rio de Conclusio da
Implementagio do Projeto Nletropolitano de Salvador (Contrato de
Empr6stimo 2681-BR).
1. Inicialmente gostariamos de enfatizar, conforme consta do Relat6rio, a
importancia de que a avalia9ao da imp1ementabo do Projeto fosse efetuada
em dois momentos distintos: a fase anterior a efetivapao da Emenda ao
Acordo de Empr6stimo (de 1986 a 1992) e a fase posterior.
Durante o perfodo de 1986 a 1992 a conjuntura politica, institucional e
economica do pais passou por relevantes transformagoes que influenciaram
enormemente a execuXo do Projeto.
No piano institucional, o processo de abertura politica que culminou com a
reforma  constitucional  de  1988,  modificou  significativamente  as
competencias e consequentemente as relag6es entre as diversas esferas de
poder, ampliando o nivel de autonomia municipal e restringindo as
competencias da Uniio. Tais restri;des ensejaram redup6es no orgamento
federal, servindo de justificativa para cortes orgamentarios e reformas
administrativa, sob o Utulo de "Opera9ao Desmonte", que refletiram
significativamente em projetos de desenvolvimento urbano.
Assim, em 1990, o Projeto foi severamente atingido pelas medidas federais.
Sem levar em consideragado sequer que se tratava de uma iniciativa da Uniao
- que era a mutubria do Emprdstimo -, foi cortada a fonte de recursos da
Uniao relativa a contrapartida do Governo Federal, que era de cerca de 20%
dos US$ 151 milh6es alocados no Projeto.
Assim, a partir de 1992 as condicOes tornaram-se bem mais favoriveis e a
perfomance da implementagio do Projeto melhorou sensivelmente. A
redefinigo das pnoridades e alocagao de recursos de contrapartida
adequados proporcionaram um ritmo adequado na implantaXo das ap6es do
Projeto e a utilizaXo dos recursos do Empr6stimo do Banco, ath entao num
nivel reduzido, cresceu de forma efetiva.
As dificuldades iniciais existentes entre as duas esferas de poder (estadual e
municipal) foram superadas, em razio da postura de imparcialidade adotada
no desenvolvirnento das a46es prograrnadas para a Projeto que resultou em
conseguir apoio e participaCAo das Prefeituras, com exce,Ao de Salvador
onde persistiram diverg6ncias pcliticas. com, muitas vezes, repercussio no
campo t6cnico.
Este conjunto de fatores possibilitaram a conclusao do Projeto, alcancando
sous principais objetivos e com beneficios inquestionaveis para a RegiSo
Metupolltana de oaivador a perc, o fortalmairnQnto da CO40E enMea 6rgac
coordenador das ades desenvolvidas no espaqo metropolitano.(ek



JUN-09-98 02 :38 PrM  CONDER CTM               68      71239127                P.04
2. A seguir apresentamos alguns esclarecimentos sobre pontos da minuta
do Relat6rio:
Item 10: Na Emenda ao Acordo de Emprestimo US$ 13,8 milhoes foram
alocados para todo o Programa de Desevolvimento Institucional e nao
apenas para o subcomponente Cadastro  Metropolitano, como estA
relacionado na alinea (c).
Item 72 - Cumprlmento das cJiuaulas do Acordo de EmprXstimo:
gostarfamos de esclarecer que as respostas as questoes levantadas pola
auditoria do Tribunal de Contas do Esta do da Bahia foram objeto de
correspond6ncia enviada a esse Banco Mundial (Oficio CTM n.0 036/98),
datada de 25 de margo de 1988. Ainda com rela,ao a esse item nao
conseguimos identificar as licita9des langadas antes do recebimento do 'no
objection" do Banco em 1993. Acreditamos que possa ter havido algum
equivoco.
Components Desenvolvimento Institucional:
Dentro do Programa de Desenvolvimento Institucional, o componente
Sistema de Informages Metropolitanas - SIM (atual INFORMS), baseado em
GISI era composto de trOs subcomponentes: (a) Informatizaggo do Sistema
Metropolitano de Inforrna;des; (b) Cartografia Digital; e (c) Cadastro T6cnico
Metropolitano.
O treinamento relativo a informatizaCio do INFORMS foi feito com os
empregados da CONDER e existiu um amplo processo de divulgafo de
informaXes sobre o sistema para outras agdncias e municipios usunrios.
Assim, no nosso entendimento, a parte final do item 12 (a), para melhor
refletir as apes desenvolvidas, devena explicitar: .W............ e paralelamente
um amplo programa de treinamento dos tWcnicos da CONDER e ampla
disseminagqo de informagdes para outras agdncias e municipios usuaros
sistema. -



69
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON BANK DRAFT ICR
(translation)
CONDER
Salvador Metropolitan Region
Development Agency
MESSAGE NO. 231/98
Salvador, June 8, 1998
Re: Loan Agreement 2681-BR
Dear Sir
We would like to acknowledge receipt of the draft Implementation Completion Report for the Salvador
Metropolitan Development Project (Loan Agreement 2681-BR, of May 29, 1988).
The observations and evaluations, made in almost their entirety, coincide with those of CONDER and portray
the conditions and the results of the implementation of the Project. However, we annexed, for your
consideration, some comments which also rellect the views of CAR and of SEPLANTEC [Secretariat of
Planning, Science and Technology of the State of Bahia] regarding the Report.
With respect
Gendrio Lemos Couto
Director-President
Dr. Braz Menezes
M.D. Task Manager
Finance, Public Sector, and Infrastructure Dept. (FPSI)
WORLD BANK
Washington D.C. - USA



70
Comments and clarifications regarding the Implementation Completion Report of the Salvador
Metropolitan Development Project (Loan Agreement 2681-BR).
1. We would first like to emphasize, as set out in the Report, the importance that the appraisal of the
implementation of the Project was effected in two distinct periods: the phase preceding the execution of the
Loan Amendment (1986 to 1992) and the phase that followed the amendment.
During the period between 1986 and 1992, the country's political, institutional, and economic framework
underwent considerable transformations which substantially influenced the execution of the Project.
During the institutional phase, the process of political opening which culminated with the Constitutional
Reform of 1988, significantly modified the competencies and consequently, the relations between the diverse
authorities, amplifying the level of municipal autonomy and restricting the responsibilities of the Union
(Federal Governrent). Such restrictions led to reductions in the federal budget, providing the justification of
budget cuts and administrative reform, beneath the tittle of "Dismounting Operation," which significantly
affected urban development projects.
Therefore, in 1990, the Project was adversely impacted by the federal measures. Without even taking into
consideration that the project was an initiative of the Union, which was the borrower of the Loan--it cut the
source of aid from the Union relative to the counterpart share of the Federal Govermuent. This was close to
20% of the US$151m allocated to the Project.
Therefore, after 1992, the conditions turned much more favorable and the implementation performance
visibly improved. The redefinition of priorities, and reallocation of counterpart funds, stimulated an adequate
rhythm in the implementation of actions under the Project and the utilization of the Bank Loan.
The initial difficulties existing between the two sub-national levels of government (state and municipal) were
displaced because of the impartial development of the progranuned actions for the Project, which resulted in
the obtaining of support and participation of the municipalities, with the exception of Salvador, where
diverged politics persistently continued with, many times, repercussions in the technical field.
This combination of factors, enabled the conclusion of the project to reach its main objectives and created
unquestionable benefits for the Salvador Metropolitan Region and for the strengthening of CONDER as a
coordinating organ of the development actions in the Metropolitan Region.



71
2. The following represents some clarifications regarding points in the draft Report:
Paragraph 10: In the Loan Amendment, US$13.8m was allocated for all of the Institutional Development
Program and not only for the Metropolitan Cadaster subcomponent, as is noted in line (c).
Paragraph 72 - Execution of the Loan Agreement's contracts: We would like to clarify that the responses
to the questions raised by the audit of the State of Bahia Audit office were the object of correspondence sent to
the World Bank (Office CTM no. 036/98), dated March 25, 1988. Still with relation to this item, we were
not able to identify the bids put before the receipt of the "no objection" of the Bank in 1993. We believe that
there could have been an error.
Institutional Development Components:
Within the Institutional Development Program, the Metropolitan Information System (SIM), based on GIS,
was composed of three subcomponents: (a) Metropolitan Information System Reports; (b) Digital
Cartography; and (c) Technical Metropolitan Cadaster.
The training in relation to the computerization of INFORMS was made with the employees of CONDER, and
took an ample process of dissemination of information about the system to other agencies and municipalities
who use it.
Therefore, in our view, the final part of item 12 (a), to better reflect the development measures, it should
explain:  ......... furthermore, an ample training program of the technicians of CONDER and ample
dissemination of information to other agencies and municipalities who will use the system."



72
Appendix B
BORROWER'S ASSESMENT OF THE EL SALVADOR METROPOLITAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(English translation by Ms. Maria Helena Carvalho. Original in Documents File)
1.    Financial and Institutional Aspects
The Metropolitan Project was the object of the Loan Agreement (2681-BR) signed on July
15, 1986, with initial resources of US$151 million of which US$55 million was provided by
the World Bank.
In February 1982, the Project was amended, reducing the amount to US$77 million and the
World Bank's participation to US$36.6 million. In this Amendment, the Union withdrew its
participation, initially US$30 million through a grant (fundo perdido) to the State, leaving the
State of Bahia with responsibility for the counterpart, US$40.4 million.
The resources used, since the signing of the Agreement in 1986, are shown in the following
chart:
Metropolitan Project of Salvador - Application of I%sources bySub-programs
M Technical Assistance  3                             _
* Project Administration
0 Urban Cleanliness
E3 Basic Sanitation
m Urban Recovery                                                   2&6
m Institutional            22 
Development
The model for the Project's execution adopted shared management, which operated in four
distinct managerial levels. The first level is comprised by the financing agencies and federal,
state and international sponsors; the second level is comprised by the coordinating agency of
the Project, CONDER; the third level is comprised by the executing agencies and the last
level corresponds to the suppliers of goods and services, as described in the following
organizational structure.



73
MANAGEMENT EXECUTION SYSTEM - Organizational Structure
0 | E l | S | E........ -- . ......... ..T......           ..          
CONDER Local CoordinatingAgency
Executing Agencies
Goods and Services Suppliers



74
Distribution of Resources
The resources before and after the Amendment, are shown in following table:
Component                 Original Project          Revised Project
IBRD  Counterpart  Total  IBRD  Counterpart  Total
A. Urban Recovery                1.3     47.3      48.6   3.6      15.3     18.9
Al - Low Income Settlements     -       34.7      34.7    -       13.8     13.8
A2 - Basic Sanitation           -       10.1      10.1   3.4      1.5       4.9
A3 - Comnuunity Participation   1.3      2.5      3.8   0.2        -        0.2
B. Transport Infrastructure     18.5     12.6      31.1   0.2      0.3       0.5
C. Municipal Services           27.4     20.1      47.5  24.1      16.9     41.0
C1 -Urban Cleanliness          16.1     12.7      28.8  21.5      11.5     33.0
C2/C3 - Urban                  11.3      7.4      18.7   2.6      5.4       8.0
Maintenance/Markets
D. Productive Activities         3.2      4.1      7.3     -        -         -
E. Institutional Development     3.8      8.2      12.0   8.0      5.8       13.8
F. Technical Assistance to the   0.3      0.4      0.7   0.7       0.1       0.8
Historical Center
G. Metropolitan Areas           0.5       0.4      0.9     -        -         -
H. Project Administration         -       2.9      2.9     -       2.0       2.0
Total                           55.0     96.0     151.0  36.6      40.4     77.0
Application of Resources by Source
IBRD_    Counterpart
47%  J   53%
2.    Main Impacts
For the relatively small size of the project we can consider surprising the impacts. Whether
from the social-economic, social, environmental or institutional points of view, significant
progress was made by CONDER, and in the metropolitan municipalities.



75
Some of the highlights on these four main components are described below:
2.1   Cadaster of Salvador
Impacts resulting from the Metropolitan Project
Originally, there were 10,800 registered properties in the Finance Secretariat of the
Municipal City Hall of Salvador. The new registry added more than 4,945 new properties to
the municipality, besides showing the infrastructure of each one.
The impacts of the new Technical Cadaster of Salvador on effective tax collection are a
result of the Property Cadaster updating the Generic Values Map used during the fiscal year
of 1998.
Increase on the registration value of IPTU 1998 compared to 1997:
Total registration of IPTU 1997 - R$120.000.000.00
Total registration of IPTU 1998 - R$175.597.874.01
Absolute value of IPTU increase - R$ 551.597.874.00
Percentage value - R$46.33%
Other MRS municipalities obtained positive impacts due to the land registry, whose
quantification is not yet concluded.
2.2 NovosAlagados
The works of this project, after complelion, will directly benefit about 13.000 people in the
area. Works such as basic sanitation and urban infrastructure, title legalization and
environmental recovery of the ecosystem of Rio do Cobre and Enseada do Cabrito, housing
improvement, strengthening of community and citizen organization, show, among others,
social-economic, financial, environmental, public health, and institutional impacts.
An important tool for social promotion, that deserves being mentioned, was the inception of
Housing, Production and Services Cooperative of Novos Alagados residents. Besides
promoting the construction of new dwellings and the renovation of existing shacks, it
proposes to develop productive activities (manufacturing blocks, combog6s, bricks, doors,
windows, etc.) and also promotes professional training and employment and income
alternatives for its members.
In connection with employment and income development, a specific program was developed
towards professional qualification of the community, with the objective of stimulating and
developing capabilities to perform such tasks. Through this Masonry Training Program, and
through agreements with the industrial social services (SESI and SENAI) literacy courses
were implemented, as well as courses for masons (painters, electricians, and professional
plumbers).



76
Finally, based on the initial studies performed, there is an economic viability for the
enterprise. Taking into consideration only one of the impacts presented by the project, the
housing conditions improvement in the area, while using the real estate appreciation as a sole
indicator we verify the economic return level of this intervention.
* Resources used on the 1st Stage: US$5,000,000.00 (of which about US$3,500,000.00
are resources from the Metropolitan Project);
* Maintenance cost equivalent to 2% of investment: US$100,000.00 per annum;
* Benefit of real estate appreciation.
Type of Property    Number of Previou       Present      Appreciation of
residences   s Value     Value         Property
(US$)      (US$)           (US$)
Lake dwellings*           283       400.00     5,000.00       1,301,800.00
transferred to parceled
land
Lake dwellings *          417       400.00     4;500.00       1,709,000.00
transferred to landfills _
Dwellings on mainland     992       800.00     4,000.00      3,372,800.00
Total                    1,692        -           -          6,384,300.00
* Palafitas = huts on piles built over the water.
Market attraction tax: 11%
* Timetable: 15 years
* Income Revenue Tax: 13%



77
2.3   Basic Sanitation
Increase of Sewerage Collection Network Barra, Pituba and Lucaia Basins
In order to develop the sanitation sewerage, an agreement was signed with Bahia's Water
and Sanitation Company - EMBASA, responsible for the execution and operation of the
Sanitation Sewerage System of Salvador, thus becoming the executing agency for these
works.
The Program increased the sewerage collection network in 46 km and promoted residential
connections in Barra, Pituba and Lucaia Basins, improved the sanitation conditions in the
area, and maximized the utilization of existing equipment in the City's Sanitation Sewerage
System, which were previously under-operating.
The Revitalization of Micromeasurenient System
Barra, Pituba and Lucaia Basins
To optimize the implemented sanitation sewerage, a great effort was given to revitalizing the
micromeasurement system, where a large quantity of water-meters were out of work which
contributed to a significant number of connections not being read. This task implied the
acquisition of 30.000 water-meters, aiming to make the collection for water and sanitation
sewerage services viable, enabling the return of investments, besides contributing to the
reduction of waste levels of treated water in the region.
Data used for the viability in US$
*  Investment value                                       5.301.576.32
*  Maintenance/Operation Value (2%)                       106.031.53
*  Average value for income/savings before installation   1.55 monthly
*  Average value for income/savings after installation    7.09
*  Monthly increase income/savings                        5.54
*  Water-meters installed                                 30.000
*  Residential connections installed                      1.700
*  Total monthly increase                                 77.058.40
*  Total annual increase                                  924.700.80
*  Market attraction tax                                  12%
*  Timetable                                              15 years
*  Income Revenue Tax                                     13%
2.4 URBAN CLEANLINESS
From the financial point of view, the bliggest impact of the Program on municipal finances
was the restructuring of urban cleanliness systems. Its most efficient actions worked as a
predominant factor in creating conditions for direct collection of taxes to finance these
services.



78
The experience, at a national level, has proved that only with the adoption of a specific tax
the municipalities are able to maintain a minimum level of efficiency in the rendering of
services for urban cleanliness. On the other hand, to establish a tax for urban cleanliness in a
city where this service was deficient is impractical due to the population's reaction, through
the representative entities of the civil society.
After several frustrating attempts to implement the tax for garbage collection in Salvador, in
1997 it was finally implemented, with the beginning of collection during 1998, giving the
managing agency the resources to operate the urban cleanliness system. During this period,
the entry for this collection was accounted in R$38.161.997.00 (thirty-eight million one
hundred sixty-one thousand nine hundred ninety-seven reais), with an amount of
R$7.590.000.00 (seven million five hundred ninety thousand reais) already collected in the
first quarter, and with a monthly supplemental collection concerning commercial and public
price collection evaluated in approximately R$600.000.00 (six hundred thousand reais).
Other municipalities adopted this direct collection (before it was included in the IPTU),
besides Cama,ari, which already collected a garbage collection tax, such as Vera Cruz which
introduced this tax, starting collection during 1998.
Thus, the major difficulty for the maintenance of efficient urban cleanliness systems, financial
soundness, begins to be superseded with the adoption of tax measures, by City Halls, due to
the investments from the Metropolitan Project.
Such deficiencies reflected on the economic activities of municipalities geared to tourism, in
view of the pollution of beaches, historic sites, and general health aspects.
The reorganization of collection systems, upgrading the acceptable levels and the
regularization of public cleanliness services, besides the socio-economic and public health
impacts, also has economic impact, not quantified, on the increase of linked tourism
activities.
Also with a relevant environmental impact, we have the solution for the final destination of
garbage in MRS through the construction of four sanitary landfills shared by municipalities.
Previously, 85% of the residues produced in the region were disposed of in a complete
inadequate way, in open dumps, presenting therefore all the consequent problems: soil
pollution, contamination of wells, proliferation of transmissible diseases, attraction points for
vultures, creating other problems for areas closer to airports due to aeronautical risks, among
others.
The establishment of sanitary landfills brought the de-activation of the main dumps existing in
the region, bringing the urban cleanliness services to a final destination system, with adequate
parameters from the environmental point of view.



79
From the institutional point of view, besides reorganizing the municipal agencies managing
the urban cleanliness, the Program contemplated an institutional management for the final
destination of solid waste residues with shared municipal landfills in the MRS.  The
innovative aspect of this model has been the object of consultation by other metropolitan
regions, due to the increase difficulty to find adequate spots for municipal sanitary landfills,
and due to the minimization of costs and optimization of resources.
3.   LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The history of a relative small project that took 10 years to be concluded, leaves many considerations,
some learned lessons that without doubt will be recommendations for future experiences.
* As the first lesson, we learned that every investment program is highly conditioned by the
national, regional and local development where it is made. Today, more than ever it is
extended to the world reality. Considering this, flexibility is essential to develop actions,
at various management levels of the project, in a way to absorb more rapidly the
significant political-institutional and financial changes, etc. that might occur during the
project.
* The second lesson, every prcject needs people to take responsibility in order to sustain it
and defend it. In environmrents subject to constant changes it is difficult to survive if
there is not a technical and managerial involvement with the project. This means a real
commitment both from the base as from the superior decision levels, including obviously
the political will to achieve the proposed actions. The continuation of a united technical
group is undoubtedly a relevant aspect to overcome the difficulties and to make a
successful project.
*   Another lesson learned is the importance of communicating widely the actions
developed, the ones in development and the results obtained, both to the decision makers
as to the beneficiaries.
*   The existence of external resources allowing the allocation of compensatory budgetary
resources, assures the implemnentation of actions of an investment program, besides
favoring the continuity of said actions, even when changes in public management occur.
Such guarantees allow the consolidation of projects that require a longer implementation
timetable.
*   It is worth mentioning that CONDER, through the Metropolitan Project, became a
metropolitan managing agency, substantiating its articulating and coordinating role
among the various municipalities of the MRS. Some examples are the shared sanitary
landfills, the incinerator for hospital residues and the Metropolitan Information System,
which require municipalities joint efforts in order to service common interests.
*   The gains obtained with the Project, in the sector of Solid Waste Residues engaged
CONDER as the agency with the highest competence in the area, with demand to be a
service supplier for other state secretariats (Sanitation and Culture and Tourism) and
other municipalities in the MRS, besides giving technical information for several states
and municipalities (see Annex Urban Cleanliness on the Final Report).
*   In a similar manner, the Metropolitan Information System, through a common database
has furnished services to several users (EMBASA, COELBA, TELEBAHIA, IBGE)
also increasing financial revenues to CONDER.



80
* These achievements deserve special attention of the people involved in the Metropolitan
Project so that they continue to make efforts to maintain and improve the established
systems.
* Thus, as a final recommendation, it is suzested that the subjects discussed in this Final
Evaluation, will result in new strengthenin2 actions ofthe svstems implemented by the
Metropolitan Project.



IBRED 192BBR
3845                                                        8J8                                                                                                                              3E.UT 'LNEZUELA  SYANA 5URINAME
0'LOMB/A;       A      ( (FECH GUIANA
A   t-              BRAZIL       ' -AH/A
U, Konto                                                                                    TOaoo rO MoFs dc  /   <  80 VIA  ,  -wAs   - As  sx  } AppO V
.  (FRANCISCO< s   ds 3n Srl                                            Soo J)5,,                                                                                                                           Iv  MOp
DO  CONDEi                                                                                                                                                                                                              R.. dA
ARG/NT P/AZU
i N i- .               I                    K'C           >/SALVADOR METROPOLITAN
CAMACARI
N                     t. CI;X   s  YDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS
UPGRADING3
7  ;UPGRADING OF LOW INCOME AREAS
B AT/C SANITATION IMPROVEMENT AREAS
INFRABGTRIATUR NEW PRIMARY ROADS
MUNICIPAL SERVICES.
iO SOLD WASTE T9ANSEER STATIONS
L     SoLID WE  ANDFILL SITES
PRODUCTIVE AC/IUITIES
/                                                                                                                                                                                       C '  O   IC2UIDNATOMERCIAAL SPTEAL
,                                                                                                                                                         ElLOMETERS  ~  ' ~  INUTERNATIOAL SITE
TECHN/CAL ASSISTANCE POE HISTOR/C CENTER
3845 DO         .         .         .         .        .       .        T. .  I                                                                    / URBJAN AREAS,
CAMLURUGIP                                                                                                                                              EITN
PROJECTED EXPANSION /19E5-20D0I
C'     L  A  N                                                           INDUSTRIAL AREAS.
EXISTING
A                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTEG EXPANSION IlEES-LU1)I
lu/To              ~~~~~~VERA                                                                                                                                                                                     OPEN AREAS                                     I/3'U
PRIMARY ROAGS
CRUZ/                                                                                                                                                                                            TEXSTING
- - -  PROPOSED /l985 20T0/
/,M T OF SA/VADOR METROPOLITAN REGION
MUN/C/PAL EOUNDARIES
U                      /0                    20                                                                                                                                       0  NATIONAL CAPITAL
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                     ----STATE BOANDARY
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
JANUARY 1926



