Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7401 AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$303 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
TO SUPPORT THE PROVINCE
OF CORDOBA
October 23, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Peso
US$1 = ARG$1
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPC            Banco de la Provincia de C6rdoba (C6rdoba Provincial Bank)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CPI           Consumer Price Index
EFF            Extended Fund Facility
EPEC          Empresa Provincial de Energia de C6rdoba (Electricity Distribution
Company)
ENRE          Ente Nacional Regulador de Electricidad (National Electricity Regulatory
Agency)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IPAM           Instituto Provincial de Atenci6n Medica (Provincial Institute for Medical
Attention)
LPR           Letter of Provincial Reform
OECD           Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OSP            Obra Social Provincial (Provincial Health Insurance Fund for Workers)
PDP            Proyecto de Desarrollo Pronvincial (Provincial Development Project)
PRESSAL        Provincial Health Sector Reform Project
PROSAP         Provincial Agricultural Development Project
PRL           Provincial Reform Loan
PRODYMES    Secondary Education Decentralization Project
PROMIN        National Program for Maternal and Child Nutrition and Health
SSAL           Special Structural Adjustment Loan
Vice President: Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director: Ms. Myrna Alexander
SMU Director: Mr. Ernesto May
Task Manager: Mr. Ronald Myers



ARGENTINA
CORDOBA PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
Borrower:                The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agencies:   Subsecretaria  de  Programaci6n  Regional, Ministerio  de
Economia, the Provincial Coordinating Unit and Provincial
ministries and agencies
Beneficiary:             Provincial Government of C6rdoba
Poverty:                 Although C6rdoba's per capita income, at about $7900, is close
to the national average, serious poverty exists compounded by
gaps in the delivery of health, education, and social protection
services. Within the reform program to be supported, the health
component has a specific goal to reach the poor and provide
basic health coverage to non-insured indigent population. The
education component seeks to redirect spending towards
schools in poorer neighborhoods and would provide for special
retention programs to reduce the drop out rate among children
from poorer families. A major effort will be made to strengthen
the delivery of social assistance to the poorest.
Amount:                  US$303 million
Terms:                   A single currency loan in US dollars, repaid in 15 years,
including five years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:         Identical to those contracted by the Argentine Republic with the
Bank
Schedule of Disbursements: (in US$ Million)
_______________________I  Disbursement     Cumulative
First Tranche     2 quarter FY2001           103                103
Floating Tranche  3rd quarter FY2001         100                203
3 .
Third Tranche     T-quarter FY2002           100                303
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Loan Identification No.: P068344
This document bas a resticted distr on and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official dues. Its contet may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorizaon.






ARGENTINA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CORLDOBA PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Number
I.   THE SETTING                                                             I
Recent Economic Performance and External Shocks                        I
The Provincial Context                                                 4
Individual Provincial Reform Programs                                  9
II.   THE PROVINCE OF CORDOBA                                               15
The Challenge                                                          15
The Reform Program of C6rdoba                                          15
Strengthening Public Finance                                     17
Modernizing Public Administration                                25
Social Sector Reform                                             27
III.  THE PROPOSED LOAN                                                     35
Loan Objective and Rationale                                          35
Lessons Learned from Previous Operations                              36
Role of the National Government                                       37
Collaboration with Other Operations and Technical Assistance Needs    37
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions                           38
Loan Description                                                      39
Borrower and Loan Amount                                         39
Tranche Disbursement                                             39
Letter of Provincial Reform                                      39
Conditions of Tranche Release                                    39
Program Implementation                                           40
Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing                           40
Environmental Concerns                                           40
Benefits and Risks                                               41
IV.  RECOMMENDATION                                                         42
This Report is based on the findings of a team composed of Ronald Myers (team leader), Roberto
Panzardi, William Dillinger, Linn Hammergren, Stefan Alber-Glanstaetten, Hemant Shah, Luis
Guasch, Jacob Bregman, Alejandro Yepes, Michele Gragnolati, Gillette Hall, Truman Packard,
Romulo Leon, Daniel Taillant (Consultant), Milka Casanegra (Consultant), Peter Gregory
(Consultant), Osvaldo Albano (Consultant), Federico Mejer (Consultant), Martin Rodriguez
(Consultant), and Luis Perez (Consultant) that visited Argentina in April and July 2000. Other team
members included Sandra Alborta, Jeffrey Rinne, and Jyoti Shukla.



ANNEXES
A. Letter of Provincial Reform
B. Matrix of Conditionality
C. Fiscal Outlook
D. Privatization of Electricity Company
E. Documents in the Project File
F. Statements of Loans and Credits
G. Country at a Glance
Map - IBRD 29500



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED PROVINCIAL REFORM
LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$303 MILLION TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
TO SUPPORT THE PROVINCE OF CORDOBA
1.  I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on the
proposed loan to the Argentine Republic for US$303 million to support fiscal and structural
reform of the Province of C6rdoba. The loan would be a variable rate LIBOR-based dollar
loan, with a grace period of 5 years, a final maturity of 15 years and level repayment of
principal. The Argentine Republic would onlend the local currency equivalent of the loan to
the Province on the same terms (an arrangement made possible by the 1:1 peso to US dollar
exchange rate fixed by Argentine law).
L. THE SETTING
Recent Economic Performance and External Shocks
Economic Reform and Growth
2.  Since the launch of the Convertibility Plan in 1991, the Argentine economy has been
transformed through a currency board arrangement as part of a sweeping set of reforms that
altered the monetary system, improved fiscal and tax policies, liberalized trade, and
reformed the public sector including privatization and changes to the social security system.
All of this was intended to reverse the long-term trend of slow growth, low labor
productivity, state domination, low domestic savings, weak investment, high volatility, and
chronic inflation, which the country had suffered for the previous 25 years.  When
hyperinflation broke out in 1989, the rate of poverty in the country climbed to over 40
percent of the population.
3.   The economic results of the Government's reform program have been dramatic.
Argentina has experienced strong average economic growth in the 1990's, with the size of
the economy expanding from an estirnated $141 billion in 1990 to $282 billion by 1999,
despite being hit by two severe external shocks and ensuing recessions Instead of
experiencing hyperinflation, Argentina has now one of the world's lowest rates of inflation.
The Federal Government's fiscal deficit receded from an average of about 6-8 percent of
GDP for most of the 1980s to 1.4 percent in 1998. Foreign debt is moderate as a share of
GDP, equivalent to 51 percent; however, the country's export base is small so that total
external debt represents more than four times the annual base of exports of goods and
services, and debt service has represented 60 to 85 percent of total exports in recent years.
4.  Although the Government has moved aggressively to lower total debt and debt service
with a debt restructuring plan in 1993, and increased the maturities of the public share of
external debt to about 9.7 years on average, the large amount of external indebtedness and
dependence on external capital flows to finance the fiscal deficit and increased investment
levels have left the economy exposed and vulnerable to external shocks. Moreover, while
many social indicators have improved in the past ten years (for example, infant mortality has
dropped from 25 deaths per 1000 births in 1991 to about 19 deaths per 1000 births in 1998),
1



poverty levels have stubbornly stayed high despite rapid economic growth. The Bank's
latest estimates put poverty at about 29 percent of the urban population. It is likely much
higher in the rural areas. This situation is compounded by rising income inequality and high
unemployment, especially for the unskilled, indicating that the benefits of growth have not
been widely shared.  Thus, Argentina still has a large social agenda to fulfil as the
continuation of its economic program.
External Shocks
5.   During the 1990s, Argentina has suffered the consequences of two serious external
shocks. The first came in late 1994-1995 after the devaluation of the Mexican peso. The
economy shrank by 2.8 percent in 1995 but following this crisis, strong, investment-led
growth returned. Real GDP growth was 5.5 percent in 1996 and an impressive 8.1 percent
in 1997. Support from the Bank Group, IDB and IMF were critical in helping Argentina to
recover and to implement continuing reforms as well as launch important targeted social
programs. The second test occurred in 1998-99, as a result of the combined effects of the
downturn in East Asia, the devaluation of the Russian ruble and the Brazilian real, and
deterioration of commodity prices. For 1998 as a whole, GDP growth was 3.9 percent,
although it turned negative in the fourth quarter. Even though the economy went into
recession in late 1998, Argentina's commitment to prudent macroeconomic management
and the discipline inherent in its currency board arrangement generated confidence and
Argentina was among the first emerging economies to regain access to international capital
markets. The Bank's special support late in 1998 played a significant role in this reentry.
6.  The economic downturn in 1999 turned out to be deeper and longer than expected,
especially in light of the progress made in Brazil to stabilize its economy. Overall,
Argentina's GDP is estimated to have declined by 3.2 percent in 1999, a larger drop in
output than experienced during the Tequila crisis of 1995. Unemployment, after falling to
about 12 percent from the high of 18 percent reached in 1996, increased to 14 percent in late
1999. The volume of exports remained fairly stable (although prices had fallen) as
Argentina was able to find substitute markets for its exports.  Because of the sharp
contraction in domestic activity, the current account balance improved slightly to 4.3 percent
of GDP, due to declines in imports (particularly capital goods) that surpassed declines in
exports. Inflation remains extremely low, with deflation during 1999.
7.  Fiscal performance deteriorated during 1999 and the fiscal program went off track in
the latter part, ending the year with a deficit of about $7.4 billion, considerably higher than
the target of $5 billion agreed with the IMF. The higher deficit was the result of higher
interest costs, the duration of the recession, and a general weakening of fiscal discipline
during the election year. Provincial governments encountered similar conditions and they
ended the year with a deficit of about $4.5 billion, almost twice the deficit in 1998. In total
the consolidated public sector fiscal deficit amounted to about 4.2 percent of GDP,
excluding privatization receipts. As a result, the new administration took swift action in
December 1999 to restore order in the fiscal accounts, including those of the Provinces.
8.   At the end of 1999, the economy began to gradually recover from the recession;
however, the recovery has been slow. In the first half of 2000, GDP grew by 0.6 percent
(year-on-year). Industrial production grew by 2.7 percent and 1.7 percent (year-on-year) in



the first and second quarters of the year; however, this is due to a bump up at the end of
1999, and further growth has stagnated since then. Unemployment rose somewhat from
13.7 percent in October 1999 to 15.4 percent in May, 2000. In general, access to financial
markets has been relatively good, but with a high degree of volatility in spreads. Average
spreads on foreign bond issues have fallen about 1 percentage point in the first half of 2000,
relative to average spreads during 1999, and maturities have lengthened considerably.
Exports have been performing extremely well, growing by almost 14 percent, year-on-year,
in the first six months of 2000.
9.   Confidence in the banking system remains strong. The system has maintained its
deposit base in both pesos and dollars, exhibiting growth in the first half of the year (7
percent). (In contrast, during the tequila crisis, 18 percent of deposits were withdrawn from
the system and a significant number of banks were forced to close, restructure and merger.)
However, credit growth to the private sector has been slightly negative, as banks have taken
a cautious stance. The cutting off of domestic firms from credit has imposed a very strong
limitation on new investment and a burden on firms attempting to adjust to the change in
markets as a result of the devaluation of the Brazilian real. In recent months, moreover,
tightening interest policy in the United States, as well as some uncertainty generated by the
sluggish recovery, caused another rise in spreads on Argentine foreign debt and a spike in
domestic interest rates. As of end-September, international reserves had increased by about
4 percent compared to a year earlier, although there has been some re-composition from
cash reserves of the Central Bank ($25.3 billion) towards liquidity reserves of private banks
held overseas ($8.1 billion).
10. Prospects. The recovery has been more sluggish than expected and so far in 2000
modest overall growth has been led by strong export growth. The latest revised projections
for the last quarters of 2000 and 2001 have GDP growth at 2 to 3 percent per annum with a
continuation of low consumer demand and investment offset by improvements in terms of
trade and high export demand. The current account balance should improve somewhat from
last year's 4.3 percent of GDP, to below 4 percent. Inflation will remain extremely low, or
even negative. Without more rapid growth, job creation is expected not to rebound, and the
unemployment rate to remain at relatively high levels in the 15 percent range. Slower than
hoped for economic reactivation, combined with large financing needs to refinance its stock
of debt plus the anticipated fiscal deficit for 2001 (the financing program for 2000 has by
and large been met), have affected country risk perceptions so that the markets are expected
to continue to monitor economic developments carefully in Argentina.  The recent
resignation by the Vice-President amid signs that the cohesion of the governing Alliance
party is faltering has also been perceived negatively by the markets, adding to country risk
perceptions. Despite these continuing risks, the Government remains firm in its economic
stance, presenting to Congress a budget adhering to the Fiscal Responsibility Law; the
currency board arrangement is expected to continue to provide discipline to economic
policy-making ; and precautionary measures taken by the Central Bank in recent years
should continue to provide for stability in the financial system.
11. IMF Program. A new agreement with the IMF for a three-year, $7.4 billion Stand-By
Arrangement was approved in March 2000. The target 2000 deficit for the Federal
Government was recently revised to $5.3 billion (1.8 % of GDP) and an increase in
consolidated public sector debt (for both the provinces and the Federal Government) of $7.0



billion. There is an indicative target for the provincial governments of a consolidated deficit
of $2.9 billion in the year 2000. To support improvements in provincial finances, the
Federal Government would exercise its authority to limit external debt and borrowing from
the domestic banking system by the provinces. It is also implementing a program of debt
relief for about one-third of the smaller provinces willing to put in place fiscal measures to
control spending. The Bank has been asked to contribute to this effort by and taking the
lead is assisting the larger provinces in meeting the year 2003 zero-deficit target and by
supporting second generation reforms in these provinces and other provinces, focusing on
health and education spending.
The Provincial Context
12.   Provincial governments have long played an important role in overall fiscal
performance and macroeconomic stability. Argentina's public sector is highly decentralized,
with provinces and municipalities accounting for about half of total public spending. In
particular, they have increasingly become the key public sector level for providing public
services in health, education and infrastructure, with responsibility for over 90 percent of
public spending in health and basic education (Table 1). Thus, provincial reform becomes a
central element in the efforts of Argentina to reduce its macroeconomic vulnerability
through improved fiscal performance and to increase competitiveness and enhance equity
through human resource development. (This effort will be complemented at the federal
level by a renewed program of state modernization focused on improvements in human
resource management, service delivery, organizational strengthening of key agencies, and an
active information sharing with the provinces on public sector modernization experiences-
an effort to be funded in part by the pending reprogramming of the Bank-financed Y2K loan
to Argentina.)
Table 1: Argentina: Allocation of Responsibilities by Government Levels
Exclusively Central  Central and  Provincial Provincial and Municipal  Municipal
Government        Governments            Governments            Governments
Defense           Social Security        Primary Education      Markets, cemeteries
Foreign Affaires  Social Assistance      Secondary Education    Solid Waste
Inter-provincial  Higher Education       Health Care            Local streets, drainage
transport         Preventive Health      Water and Sewerage
Trade regulation  Economic development   Regional and local roads
Mail and telex    Justice and Security   Land Use
Housing                Fire Control
Passenger and cargo
terminals
Electricity and gas energy
13.  During the 1980s, high inflation rates, lack of budgetary discipline, easy access to
borrowing and reliance on the Federal Government for transfers and bailouts all contributed
to persistent fiscal deficits. The situation improved in 1992, due to the reforms that the
Federal Government had initiated under the Convertibility Plan, and a major national tax
effort. However, this deteriorated again soon after due to excessive spending by the
provinces, given their inability to manage the rapid increase in the funds transferred from the
center. The financial crisis of 1995 aggravated the fiscal situation of the provinces once
4



again when the pool of total public revenues fell dramatically. Provincial revenues dropped
5 percent in real terms, provincial expenditures failed to adjust, and the provincial deficit
reached a record high of $3.5 billion or 1.4 percent of GDP, about half of the consolidated
public sector deficit at that time. In 1995-96, out of 24 provinces, only four had balanced
fiscal accounts. Most of the others faced important liquidity shortages, increased borrowing,
and accumulated arrears. Some provinces resorted to printing their own money.
14. Recognizing the importance of provincial finances to macro-stability in a federal state,
provincial reform has been a priority for the Federal Government since the early 1990s.
During 1992 and 1993, it negotiated two agreements with the provinces to promote
structural economic changes. The provinces agreed to improve own-source mobilization,
restructure provincial taxes and eliminate distortionary taxes, privatize public enterprises,
including the provincial banks and utilities, deregulate the provincial economy, and transfer
the provincial pension funds to the national system. In exchange, the Federal Government
guaranteed a shared-revenue floor to each province, sheltering them from any downfalls in
revenue. It also provided a Transformation Fund, which helped finance those reforms and
provide technical assistance and advisory services. While a number of provinces began
implementing a program of reforms during 1993-94, it was not until the financial crisis of
1995 that a large number of provinces began to reform in earnest.
15.  With a more favorable macroeconomic environment beginning in late 1996, arid the
reforms undertaken by many provinces, the overall fiscal situation of the provinces
improved remarkably. During the 1997-1998 period the deficit averaged only $0.5 billion
(about 30% of the consolidated deficit). However, with the current economic downturn, the
deficit level has increased again and is estimated to. reach $4.5 billion in 1999, similar to
their level relative to GDP in 1995 during the Tequila period. Moreover, a number of
provinces that had borrowed excessively now have untenable debt service burdens
aggravated by the recent economic downturn: total debt service payments in 1999 were
about $4.3 billion on the stock of provincial debt of $19 billion. Since much of these debts
are guaranteed with the individual provinces' income from federal revenue sharing and are
deducted automatically, the shortfall of revenues after debt service falls directly on the
payment of salaries and suppliers the provinces owe.
Table 2: Fiscal Performance at Federal and Provincial Levels
Est.*
1995     1996      1997        1998     1999      2000
Millions ofpesos
Federal Government    -2545    -5889    -4341        -4170    -7,348    -5300
Provincial           -3530    -1840    -1377         -2359    -4,509    -2900
Administrations
Total                -6075    -7729    -5718         -6529    -11,827   -8200
Shares of GDP
(%)
Federal Government    - 1.0   -2.2      -1.5         -1.4     -2.6     -1.8
Provincial           -1.4     -0.7      -0.5        -0.8      - 1.6     - 1.0
Administrations
Total                -2.4     -2.8      -2.0        -2.2      -4.2     -2.8
Excludes privatization.
Revenues
*Revised IMF Program
5



Main Challenges in Provincial Reform
16.   The process of decentralization has increasingly forged a direct link between the
institutional capacity of sub-national governments and the human and infrastructure
development required to put the country on a sustained growth path. The Argentine public
sector over the last decade has shed unproductive activities and become more focussed on
core functions. With the federal level concentrating on social security, general regulatory
functions and national defense, much of the most complicated and critical service delivery
functions rest with the provinces. Social and economic progress in Argentina will depend
on the ability of the provinces to deliver health, education and public safety functions
effectively and within the context of sustained fiscal balance.
17.  Over the past ten years, the Government's strategy has progressed from ensuring
macro-economic stability, installing a competitive policy framework for the productive
sectors, and providing basic security for the population to a strategy increasingly
emphasizing second generation reforms, community development and social services. In
light of the role of the provinces in these key areas, it is clear that the locus of activity had to
shift from the central level of administration to that of sub-national governments. Important
challenges remain, which the national and provincial administrations will need to deal with:
Revenue-Sharing.  A long-standing issue facing the Federal Government and the
Provinces has been the system of revenue sharing between the two levels of government
and among the provinces (the system  of co-participation).  The last time this
arrangement was modified was in 1988, after protracted federal-provincial negotiations.
At issue is finding a better balance between: (i) the collection of taxes and responsibility
for spending; (ii) the incentives for spending and social equity for the poorer provinces;
(iii) the predictability of revenues and the need for fiscal adjustment; (iv) the level of
revenues collected and the incentives for economic efficiency; and (v) the transparency
in the allocation process and the need to provide emergency support. A new agreement
that is more equitable and efficient could help provide greater incentives for provinces to
collect their own revenues, spend more wisely, and relieve reoccurring political pressure
on the Federal Government for bailouts. However, finding such a balance, while
ensuring the 100 percent acceptance by all the parties needed to put the new system into
place by law, has been difficult (in contrast, the Convertibility Law, which radically
changed the economic landscape in Argentina, only required a two-thirds majority vote).
The political difficulties of reaching a new agreement cannot be overstated, particularly
with current fiscal problems that gives the Federal Government little with which to
bargain. Indeed, the Constitutional reform of 1994 had mandated that such an agreement
be reached by 1996 (but that date was last extended in 1999 to late 2001). On the other
hand, as an increasing number of provinces see the wisdom of bringing their own house
in fiscal order, with the support of the Federal Government, the Bank and the IDB, the
constituents for a system that rewards greater efficiency has grown markedly during the
past decade.
Heterogeneity among Provinces. There is no uniform solution. The situation in the 24
provinces remains highly disparate. There are well performing provinces, such as La
Pampa and San Luis, which are able to provide good quality public services to their
small and well off populations. The largest provinces, such as Santa Fe, Mendoza,
6



C6rdoba and the Province of Buenos Aires, have undergone varying degrees of
adjustment in the 1990's but still have difficulties in cyclical downturns and need to
upgrade the quality and coverage of their public services.  Since the largest
concentration of the urban poor are in these provinces, it is critical that they are able to
meet the challenge of poverty reduction. Other resource rich provinces, such as Chubut,
Neuquen and Santa Cruz, have small populations, low levels of poverty, and high
revenues from natural resources but could benefit from reforms to enhance quality and
efficiency of the public services. At the other end of the spectrum, there are a number of
provinces, typically among the poorest, with high social demands, poor institutional
capacities, weak fiscal performance and high debt.
*  Fiscal and Debt Problems. Chronic deficits and dangerous levels of indebtedness in a
few of provinces generate social and political unrest and contribute to the overall fiscal
problem in Argentina. Unfortunately, some of these provinces are among the country's
poorest and it is difficult to conceive that growth combined with fiscal restraint will be
sufficient to face their debt burdens. A part of the problem is the short term nature of
their debts and another part of the problem is the lack of incentives by the banks and
capital market to restrain new borrowings as provincial debts enjoy full guarantee from
the respective province's share of federal-shared revenues. Achieving a sustainable
fiscal position in some cases may require a combination of debt restructuring and fiscal
measures; in other cases, fiscal measures alone may be sufficient. The approach should
be case-by-case, and well grounded on changing future incentives to prevent a
reoccurrence. At the same time, there is still much to be done to lower the overall fiscal
deficit, particularly among the largest provinces - such as Buenos Aires, Cordoba, and
Santa Fe -- which have the capacity to meet their debt obligations and account for the
bulk of the aggregate provincial deficit in the past year.
Regional Dimensions of Poverty. Poverty rates are substantially higher in provinces in
the north, particularly in the Northwest (46 percent) and Northeast (49 percent).
Conversely Buenos Aires (including the City and Province) and five Patagonian
provinces in the southern part of the country have lower poverty rates than the national
average. Argentina's economic performance has also has a varied impact depending
upon the region. In the early 1990's, overall poverty rates fell by 48 percent, but poverty
in the two poorest regions in the Northeast and the Northwest fell by about half of that.
in other words, the poorest provinces benefited less from overall growth than the richer
ones. However, when poverty rose during the 1994-98 period, the increases in poverty
were greater in those provinces that traditionally had the lowest poverty rates; that is, the
province of Buenos Aires, Cuyo (western provinces straddling the Andes) and the
Pampa region (the central plains). More generally, the provinces in the Northeast and
Northwest tend to have higher percentages of rural populations and indigenous peoples:
a survey of rural poverty in two of these provinces showed that poverty rates among the
rural populations are exceedingly high-some 70 percent.
* Differences in Social Performance. Social indicators show large variance among
regions, particularly in health. In Greater Buenos Areas and the larger provinces such as
Santa Fe and C6rdoba, the health profile is broadly similar to that of the developed world.
Other areas of the country, particularly the poorer North, face a very different health
7



profile. For example, their infant mortality rates of 29 per 1000 are almost 70 percent
higher than in greater Buenos Aires. Regional difference in education are less stark, with
most parts of the country performing poorly in retention rates, but the quality of
education, based on national testing, is particularly deficient in the North.
Municipal Governments. The process of reform in Argentina has been cascading: it
occurred first that the federal level in the early 1990's and then shifted to the provincial
level by the mid-1990's. It has yet to reach the municipalities that have the potential to
take on more responsibilities and to become more accountable.  Issues in fiscal
management and revenue sharing also remain as a major challenge in provincial-
municipal relations. Although municipal governments in the aggregate only account for
less than 10 percent of public expenditures, the failure- of most to engage in meaningful
reform undermines these efforts in a number of provinces, and provides a weak basis for
confronting growing urban problems and meeting the needs of the poor for basic
infrastructure, garbage and waste disposal, and other urban services. A very large deficit
of basic water and sanitation services exists.  Some municipalities are increasing
providing primary health care, day care services, community kitchens and the distribution
of food supplements for the poor. Thus, there is room for greater decentralization and
consolidation of social services at the local level. Municipalities are also at the interface
with the private sector, concerned with business licensing, among other things, which has
an impact on private sector development. As of now, there is no comprehensive strategy
as to how to bring the process to reform to this level of government.
Bank Support for Provincial Reform
18.   The Bank has been a major partner of the Government since the early 1990's in
supporting provincial reforms and institutional strengthening, through a series of ongoing
investment operations in health, education, agriculture, renewable energy, water supply,
roads and flood control and successful completed operations, including First Provincial
Development Project (Ln. 3280), First Provincial Reform Loan (PRL I) (Ln. 3836),
Provincial Bank Privatization Loan (Ln. 3878), and Provincial Pension Reform Loan (Ln.
4116)1, supported with important analytical work.2 As a result:
*  18 provincial banks and 22 other loss making major public enterprises were privatized
during the period 1995-99 and eight provinces transferred their provincial pension
systems to the reformed national system;
*  provinces have initiated programs, and some are well advanced, in improving their tax
collection systems (cadasters, etc), fiscal management and budgeting systems;
.  provinces have entered into fiscal agreements (pactos fiscales) with the Federal
Government to change distortionary provincial taxes and there is an active dialogue,
facilitated by the Bank and in collaboration with the Fund, on further reform of the
federal-provincial tax sharing regime and provincial tax systems (co-participation);
All of these operations were rated either satisfactory or highly satisfactory by OED.
2 Including Argentina Provincial Finances Study, Report No. 15487; Argentina: Reforming Provincial
Utilities, Report No. 15063; Cordoba-Public Sector Assessment, Report No. 15132-AR; Argentina:
Revitalizing the Tucuman Economy, Joint Bank/IFC Note, dated November 2, 1995.
8



* most provinces are engaged in the national program to improve the quality of secondary
education; and support is being provided to improve the management of provincial
public hospitals; and
* each year the Bank conducts a review of provincial finances and uses financial criteria to
determine eligibility by the provinces to funds for capital investments; the only
exceptions are for social sector and for flood protection (in the Northeast, subject to
recurring floods that cost the Argentine economy as much as lpercent of GDP in losses).
During the 1995-99 period, the twelve provinces that participated in the provincial reform
program (PRL I and PRL H)3 have out performed other provinces in a variety of critical
areas. Local tax collections have increased 26 percent in the PRL provinces, as compared
to 19 percent for all provinces, and expenditure growth has been about 25 percent less
than the overall average.
Individual Provincial Reform Programs
Background
19. In 1996, the Federal Government recognized the need for a second phase of provincial
reforms. After undertaking some of the basic structural reforms-including privatizations-
which provided a better balance in the role of the state and its fiscal means and a more stable,
immediate fiscal situation, it was clear that the provinces needed to address issues of the
quality and equity of core public services, especially in health and education which had been
decentralized to that level. The intended reforms were to help the provinces improve the
efficiency in public spending, reduce the size of their central administrations, secure and
maintain fiscal balance, reduce debt stock and debt service to manageable proportions, and
enhance responsiveness, quality and equity in the provision of social services.  Four
provinces were selected for piloting this approach -- Tucuman, Salta, San Juan and Rio
Negro - and to participate in the Bank's Second Provincial Reform Loans (PRL II) approved
in 1997. These provinces were selected based on their previous reform performance under
the First Provincial Reform Loan (PRL I), the difficulties that they continued to face and
their commitment to engage in further reforms.
Reform Goals and Actions
20. The provincial reform prograrn for individual participating provinces seeks to ensure an
efficient and responsive delivery of remaining public social services within fiscally sound
policies.  While the nature of the problems may vary across provinces and the reform
programs are tailor-made to each, the pillars of the reform program are common and include
three basic components: public finance, education, and health.
21.  Reforms in public finance are focused on achieving a sustainable fiscal situation and
3 Including the provinces of Entre Rios, Misiones, San Juan, Catamarca, Santiago del Estero, Tucuman, Salta,
Rio Negro, Chubut, Santa Cruz, Corrientes, and Chaco. This performance is all the more impressive given that
this group includes several provinces that "dropped out" of the reform process, and that the provinces that this
group is compared with includes several traditionally strong fiscal performers and provinces undertaking their
own adjustment effort outside the PRL umbrella.
9



are based mainly on strengthening ongoing reforms in the participating provinces,
particularly in increasing current savings to lower the debt burden.  Local resource
mobilization is emphasized not only to increase revenues, but to enhance accountability and
to reduce, at least somewhat, the pro-cyclical impact of federal transfers derived mainly from
consumption taxes. Civil service reform is promoted not only to enhance the productivity of
public employees, but to increase resources available for investment bv reducing the wage
bill. Experience under the ongoing PRL II suggests that increased local revenues, changes in
the structure of expenditures, and lowering debt are all required to provide for greater
flexibility when the provincial governments need to adjust in the face of economic
downturns, such as the Tequila crisis and more recently the external shocks from Asia,
Russia and Brazil. The basic elements of the program include:
*  improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on
own-source revenues and increased accountability;
*  civil service reform including reduction of the wage bill and redundant personnel;
improved training and compensation; control to lower absenteeism and
overpayments; and,
*  rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government spending,
with emphasis on privatization and outsourcing to improve reliability and quality
of public services and lower the fiscal burden.
22.  On the social sector side, the emphasis is to increase the efficiency and quality of the
education and health sectors, focusing on demand and poverty reduction aspects, while
promoting increased involvement by the private sector. The large majority of provinces
appear to devote sufficient resources to public health and education, most at levels higher
than OECD countries relative to per capita incomes; however, the efficiency and quality of
this spending are poor. The basic strategy is to protect current levels of spending, while at
the same time changing the structure of expenditures to increase investment and providing
incentives for improvements in efficiency, quality and equity. In some provinces, savings
from improvements may not be sufficient and increased spending would be required.
23.   In education, despite attractive returns to higher education, dropout rates from
secondary school among the poor are high. In Argentina only 24 percent of students in the
lowest quintile complete secondary school, compared to 76 percent for the upper quintile.
Proposed education reforms seek to ensure the extension of obligatory education (from six to
nine years) as mandated the National Education Law, while improving efficiency and quality.
Given the low productivity in most provinces, with student/teacher ratios in some cases
double those of comparators, and high levels of teacher absenteeism (sometimes four times
as high as comparators), much of this can potentially be financed within the current budget,
with some short-term increases to cover investment in classrooms, materials and teacher
training.  In addition, most provinces need to undergo important reforms to provide
incentives to improve quality, including changing seniority-based teacher remuneration
systems into merit-based systems, and decentralizing greater control to the school level.
Priority actions include:
*  Increasing low  student/teacher ratios and the participation of staff actively
teaching as a share of total staff,
*  Reducing disproportionate use of temporary and substitute education personnel;
10



Improving the incentives for quality improvement;
* Increasing the participation of the private sector; and,
* Reducing administrative costs.
24. In health, despite the availability of health care generally through public hospitals, care
is of poorer quality for poorer people. For example, 25 percent of women in the lowest
income levels are delivered by non-doctors, while none at the upper level; over 30 percent of
women in the lowest quintile have no post delivery follow-up, compared to only 2 percent of
those in the upper quintile; 74 percent from the lowest quintile have to wait more than 24
hours for a consultation, as compared to only 45 percent of those in the upper quintile.
Proposed health reforms seek to increase overall investment largely within the current budget
envelope and to induce improvements in efficiency, quality and equity by separating the
supply of services from the financing, promoting cost-recovery for care provided by public
hospital to insured patients, promoting hospital accreditation and quality assurance systems,
and providing the indigent population with health insurance. A fundamental element of this
strategy, self-administered public hospitals, was pioneered in Argentina under the ongoing
Provincial Health Development Project (PRESSAL, Ln. 3931-AR). On the financing side,
the Bank supported reforms in the national health insurance system (Health Insurance
Reform Loan Ln. 4002/3AR and Health Insurance Technical Assistance Project Ln 4004-
AR) to enhance efficiency and promote competition. The PRL program combines these two
reform elements in participating provinces and promotes the incorporation of the uninsured
poor into the system to help ensure equity in access to services. The main actions being
undertaken cover reforms in the area of personal health care delivery, public health finance
and public health administration and include:
* Extending the Provincial Health Insurance to the uninsured poor;
Restructuring the Provincial Health Insurance carrier (Obra Social Provincial);
R Reducing staff and reallocating resources to non-personnel expenditures;
* Reallocating resources from personal health care to essential public health
services, including health promotion, reproductive health and injury control;
* Promoting public hospital autonomy;
* Improving the integration between primary and secondary health care; and
* Accreditation of hospitals and ambulatory services and introduction of quality
assurance systems in public hospitals.
Progress in Provincial Reform
25.  Of the four pilot provinces for PRL II, the loans for Salta and Tucuman have been
completed and evaluated using the new intensive learning approach, including participatory
workshops and review by specialists from outside the region. Both have been evaluated by
OED as satisfactory.4 The ICRs note that overall fiscal performance by the four provinces
under this program has been exceptional when compared to other provinces. In particular,
during the 1996-98 period they averaged an increase in current savings of 93 percent,
compared to a nine percent decline in current savings by the other provinces; and their debt
stock increased on average only two percent, as compared to almost 19 percent in other
provinces. With the deterioration in the overall economy during 1998-99, and national and
4 Reports Nos 20699 and 20698, both dated June 30, 2000.
11



provincial elections in 1999, the performance has been more mixed, but for the 1996-99
period as a whole, PRLII provinces continued to outperform other provinces, with average
increases in own resource mobilization of 17 percent, compared to 12 percent for all
provinces, and in maintaining spending increases at under 10 percent, as compared to a 17
percent increase for all provinces during the period. However, both San Juan and Rio Negro
encountered difficulties in meeting fiscal targets in 1999 and the final tranches were
cancelled in both cases. ICRs for these two loans are now underway.
26. Emerging lessons from the ongoing experience suggests that the loan design for a direct
relation between the Bank and the participating province is important in enabling the Bank to
bring to bear its international experience and in providing a mediating influence between the
federal and provincial stakeholders. Project design also puts local governors at the forefront
of implementation and dialogue has helped to improve performance under other investment
operations in which the provinces participate. In addition, the provincial approach to
promoting needed sector reforms in health and education appears to be a fundamental
complement to the Bank's efforts in these areas at the national level. Drawing on the
ongoing ICR effort and supervision, important lessons from this experience include:
- Fiscal adjustment and social sector reform: There can be tensions in meeting these two
objectives, particularly where fiscal adjustments are not taken upfront and need to be
undertaken in the middle of the reform process. Although the programs provided for
protecting overall spending in health and education, sector reforms often become associated
with fiscal adjustment resulting in unwarranted resistance. Moreover, urgent needs to
downsize staffing may result in losing better qualified staff before adequate human resource
management systems for the social sectors can be put into place to provide incentives for
better performance. At the same time, since the bulk of public spending is in these sectors,
their reform is crucial in sustaining fiscal equilibrium. The lesson is that sequencing is
important and that the PRLII approach is more successful and sustainable for provinces that
have already achieved a level of control in their fiscal and debt situations.
- Timing: The loans were designed to fully disburse within 12-18 months of effectiveness;
however, the reform effort took longer than anticipated and even longer to begin showing
results. This makes it even more important to consider political cycles. All the provinces in
the program held elections during the last year of implementation, and in two cases there
was a change in governing political parties. While the new administrations have slowly
begun to take ownership of many of the reforms, after first rejecting them outright, there was
a loss in the reform momentum and questions of sustainability persist. The lesson is that
reforms have a better chance of being sustainable if they are fully in place, not just enacting
new measures but institutionalizing new arrangements, prior to any change in
administration.
- Ownership: While all the governors were committed to the reforms, in one of the
provinces the executive branch did not enjoy the support of the legislative branch. As a
result, the reform effort was implemented using executive decrees that could easily be
rescinded by a new administration. The lesson is that ownership needs to be as broad based
as possible and that commitment to the reform program requires the support of the
legislative branch, particularly if it is controlled by an opposition political party. At the
sector level, those with a reform champion with vision appeared to perform better during
12



implementation, and the overall programs benefited when the program coordinator had a
direct link to the governor and political weight vis-a-vis the cabinet.
- Institution Building/Participation: The reforms introduced institutional arrangements
that affect incentives governing policymaking and service delivery. While they combined
mechanisms of voice, competition and hierarchy into service delivery reforms, in some
cases there were no clear signals within the public administration to ensure allegiance to
these reforms.  The lesson is that complementary accountability and transparency
mechanisms would help to ensure improved implementation and greater sustainability. The
legitimacy of the reforms were enhanced in those cases where a participatory process was
followed involving stakeholders such as teachers, medical staff, and parents and where an
effort was made to inform the general public on the nature of the reforms. This was the
case, for example, with the implementation of the new subsidy formula to private schools in
Salta. The participatory approach facilitated the resolution of the constraints that appeared
during its implementation and provided options to resolve the potential conflicts. Also, this
approach guaranteed the legitimacy of the new formula.  The lesson is that project
preparation should be informed by a social assessment and that participatory mechanisms be
provided during implementation.
- Coordination with other operations: Rather that developing separate TA operations for
each province, the program relied on the availability of technical assistance through a
number of ongoing sector investment operations for the provinces through the Federal
Government. While this approach helped in developing a stronger link between provincial
reforms and the federal ministries, at times delays in providing technical assistance lead to
problems in maintaining the momentum of the reforms. However, at the federal level,
experience with the reform efforts of the PRLII provinces enhanced federal efforts to
support reforms in other provinces and helped to make clearer how the federal ministries
themselves need to modernize to fulfil their new role in a decentralized environment. The
lesson is that careful planning beforehand is required to ensure that TA is available when
needed, but that separate provincial TA operations would not contribute to the long-term
needs of improving federal-provincial relations.
27.  In summary, the provincial reform approach piloted under PRL II is emerging as a
powerful vehicle for promoting needed sector reforms in health and education as well as
fiscal sustainability, and appears to be a fundamental complement to the Bank's efforts in
these areas at the national level and sector level investment programs. Individual provincial
reform programs, together with continuing support for reform in revenue-sharing, have been
identified in the FYOI-04 CAS as the main pillars for the Bank's continued support for
provincial reform in Argentina, with a renewal of the series of provincial reform loans which
were interrupted by the external shock in 1998-99.
Government Strategy and Bank Assistance
28.  The new Federal Administration is giving top priority to provincial reform and, as
noted above, has included specific benchmarks for this effort under its new agreement with
the Fund. Its two-track strategy would seek to continue the dialogue and improving the
environment for reforming the current system of co-participation, while further improving
the incentives of the current system and supporting the reform efforts of individual provinces.
To support improvements in provincial finances, the Federal Government would exercise its
13



authority to limit external debt and borrowing from the domestic banking system by the
provinces. This would help to enhance the hard budget constraints and builds on earlier
efforts to enhance the transparency of the system and to reduce discretionary transfers. It is
also implementing a program of debt relief for about one-third of the smaller provinces
willing to put in place fiscal measures to control spending.  Specifically, the new
administration reached agreement with the provinces as follows:
* Primary Distribution of Revenue-Sharing in 2000-01. In order to support efforts to
close the fiscal deficit of the Federal Government, instead of transferring a share of actual
federal taxes (the so-called automatic transfers), a fixed amount of $16.2 billion would be
shared (about equal to the average of 1998-99).  An additional $1-1.5 billion in
discretionary transfers would be subject to possible cuts.
* New Revenue-Sharing Law. Agreement to submit reform legislation in 2000.
* Fiscal Solvency. Commitment for provinces to enact laws similar to the new Federal
law establishing a timetable to achieve a zero deficit by 2003.
* Debt Restructuring. Commitment by the Federal Government to assist smaller provinces
in improving the terms of their debt stock.
* Provincial Pension Systems. Agreement of the Federal Government to help finance
transitional deficits of reformed provincial systems.
* Transparency. Commitment to improve presentation and dissemination of provincial
fiscal accounts.
* Tax Administration. Agreement to move toward greater collaboration, including a
common taxpayer ID and data sharing.
* Federal Fiscal Authority. Agreement to create an organization to serve as point for the
debate over the new revenue sharing law, fiscal coordination, monitoring, and tax
harmonization.
29. The Federal Government's strategy to step up provincial reform is designed to provide
a more favorable environment and the political support necessary for reforming the system of
revenue sharing. This is a fundamental policy issue which is exceedingly complex and
difficult to resolve. As noted above, the Federal Government has a two year window for
lasting changes to the system and has been able to reach an understanding on some
principles, most notably the need to smooth these transfers overtime, and to have a more
independent body to monitor the system. Through advisory services and ESW, the Bank has
been providing the analytical bases for this effort.5  Under the SSAL, the Government
prepared a detailed technical proposal, initiated a round of public debate on the subject, and
began to work towards a consensus with the provinces. The high case scenario for the
proposed Argentina CAS FY0 I-04 would also provide for Bank support to assist in
transitional measures in other provinces, if and when the revenue sharing system is reformed.
5 Including the recent report, Argentina: Provincial Tax and Revenue-Sharing Reform, gray cover Report No.
19395-AR, dated June 30, 1999.
14



II. THE PROVINCE OF CORDOBA
The Challenge
30.  Located in the middle of Argentina, C6rdoba is the country's third largest province,
with a population of 3.1 million. Its economy is based on agriculture and industry
(especially auto manufacturing) as well as education and domestic tourism. Although about
average with a per capita income of $7900, C6rdoba faces serious challenges.  Its
competitive position in the global economy is threatened by its high costs of doing business
as fiscal instability, high taxes, a large overhang of debt, and inadequate human and physical
infrastructure have tarnished its attractiveness to investors and undermined potential growth.
Moreover, despite its relative affluence, social indicators lag significantly, pockets of severe
poverty dot both urban and rural areas, and unstable economic performance and poor public
administration have hurt social programs.
3 1. Over the last decade C6rdoba has been plagued by volatile fiscal performance. Booms
followed by busts have been aggravated by ad hoc and short-term policy responses and poor
management and controls.  Indebtedness increased sharply even as service standards
declined. While revenues grew strongly at the beginning of the 1990s (up 75 percent
between 1991 and 1994), expenditures grew even more rapidly, especially on personnel.
Deficits were financed by large borrowings from the Provincial Bank of C6rdoba (BPC).
When the Tequila crisis struck in early 1995 and revenues fell, arrears to suppliers and
personnel emerged. A new Administration implemented emergency measures later that year
by reducing salaries by 30 percent (in return for a reduction in the work day), cutting staff,
and severely limiting capital spending.  The Province even issued "certificates of
cancellation of debt" (CECORs) to clear salary arrears. These near-money instruments
could be used to pay taxes at par or discounted heavily in the secondary market. As a result
of these measures the deficit declined from 9 percent of revenues in 1995, and a small
surplus was recorded in 1997. However, the Province reversed direction again as the 1999
elections approached. Spending increased, revenues fell, and the deficit ballooned to nearly
five percent of revenues that year. Arrears reemerged and total indebtedness resumed its
rise, with the Government forced to seek short term financing from private banks, unable to
turn to the nearly bankrupt BPC. The result of this performance has been to reduce growth,
undermine the ability to pursue more effective social sector policies, increase debt burdens,
deter investors, and divert the provincial debate from long term strategy to short term crises.
Tentative efforts at structural reforms were still-born or quickly smothered by emergency
responses to unanticipated crises.
The Reform Program of C6rdoba
32. In 1999 a new administration from the opposition party was elected on an explicitly
stated platform of comprehensive reform. Its goal is to improve the Province's competitive
position in the global economy and lay the basis for sustained growth through an ambitious
program to stabilize government finances, improve public services, and strengthen human
capital formation. The vision is to create a model provincial administration by redefining
the state--reducing the size and tax burden of government, redirecting its efforts more to the
social sectors, and improving the efficiency and transparency of its services to citizens. The
program, a combination of first and second generation reforms, has three main components:
15



(i) strengthening public finances (including privatization or concessioning of several state
enterprises, tax reduction accompanied by strengthened tax administration, pension reform,
a clean up of municipal finances, and debt reduction): (ii) modernizing public administration
(including reforms in financial management, civil service, and business processes and
organizational structure); and (iii) social sector reform  (health, education, and social
protection). The Province is now asking for Bank support to carry out this strategy, both
through a provincial reform operation and technical assistance. The latter may be provided
through existing operations such as the Second Provincial Development Project (PDPII) and
a loan from the pending Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
33.  The Administration has already moved on its election promises in several areas by
commencing a reduction in provincial tax rates, initiating reforms in revenue collection,
introducing new information technology to strengthen personnel management and financial
reporting, and securing omnibus legislation authorizing the fiill reform agenda. Three laws
(covering Citizen Charters, Modernization of the State, and Private Incorporation into the
Public Sector) passed as a package will permit a comprehensive redirection in the economic,
social, and govemance framework of C6rdoba.
A New Legal Framework for Reform
Three laws, passed as a package in April, 2000, permit a notable redirection in the economic, social, and
governance framework of C6rdoba.
Law No. 8835, "Citizens' Charter", has two main parts, creating a framework for: (1) Citizens' Charters
that enunciate: (i) citizen rights in front of the state including rights to education, health, security,
solidarity, and information; (ii) the state's responsibilities to perform its functions and deliver services
according to principles of quality, efficiency, courtesy, collaboration, private participation, availability of
services, transparency and information accessibility; (iii) users' rights to quality and efficient public
services; (iv) creation of a regulatory agency for water, electricity and transport; and (v) consumer rights
and a conflict resolution system for consumer protection; and (2) the fight against corruption by (i)
creation of Anti-Corruption Office responsible for the prevention and investigation of conducts violating
the Inter-American Convention against Corruption; and (ii) creation of anti-corruption and economic
crimes courts.
Law No. 8836, "Modernization of the State", establishes the principles for a new public administration,
by supporting (i) budget honesty through fiscal equilibrium, and limits on current expenditures and public
indebtedness; (ii) creation of a public information system for government finances and operations (Estado
Cristalino-Crystal State); and (iii) state restructuring through the creation of a Restructuring Unit, a
provincial public sector employees census, requiring government personnel to use and display their
credentials, the re-assignment of personnel, early retirement programs, voluntary severance programs
with transfer of personnel to the private sector to permit the restructuring of the administration, and
changes in the culture of service delivery in C6rdoba. Additionally, the law addresses specifics issues
such as the creation of a real property agency to sell public assets and the deregulation of Notary Publics
and Professional fees.
Law No. 8837, "Incorporation of Private Capital into the Public Sector", authorizes the privatization
and/or concessioning of the C6rdoba Provincial Bank, the electricity company, and the Provincial
lottery/gambling agency, as well as permitting outsourcing of other functions.
16



A. STRENGTHENING PUBLIC FINANCE
34. Over the next five years C6rdoba faces a major fiscal challenge. It needs to reestablish
fiscal stability, while simultaneously confronting: (i) rising pension costs; (ii) the financial
burden of BPC; and (iv) a large stock of debt. Consequently, building a sustainable fiscal
position is a pillar of the Government's reform agenda. Throughout its termn, the Government
aims to maintain a current account surplus (now mandated by law) while reducing its stock
of debt. These objectives will be pursued through a combination of short and long-term
measures. Tight spending controls (using a highly centralized cash based system) are already
being applied to nearly all goverrnent operations, with freezes in hiring and wages, and cuts
in selected agency budgets. During this period, however, the Government will maintain
spending for vital social services in health, education, and social protection. Longer-term
stability will be fostered through policy and structural reforms to reduce the size of
government through privatization and outsourcing, as well as a major reform in public
administration to increase its efficiency. These efforts will also aim at improving the service
delivery capacity of government by improving transparency, streamlining procedures, and, in
general, changing the culture of the public sector.
35. Tax Reform. C6rdoba's revenues are largely derived from federal revenue sharing
and two Province-administered taxes. Although the former is the largest source of income,
it has been frozen for 2000 and 2001 based on transfers in 1998 and 1999. Federal
Chart I Trends in Revenues
3,000.0-
2,500.0 -
u ,000  - - -                                                  0 federal transfers
0 other own-source
a' 1500.0    -  1L-|||-     _li_!el
U property taix
a 1,000.0                                                      mg gros s receipts
500.0
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
authorities hope to reach agreement with the provinces on a new transfer formula for 2002
onward, but until then any growth in income will have to come from provincial taxes. The
gross receipts tax, imposed as a fixed percent of sales, is the largest source of provincial
based tax revenue. The Province also derives significant revenues from a property tax,
which is imposed on an ad valorum basis in both urban and rural areas. To improve the
business climate, strengthen C6rdoba's competitive position vis-a-vis other provinces, and
signal to citizens and investors alike a new approach to government, the Province has
initiated a program of phased reductions in tax rates. In the third quarter of 1999, rates for
property taxes were cut 30 percent as was the gross receipts tax for small businesses. Cuts
in the gross receipts tax for larger scale businesses were made in December 1999 and April
2000. At present, only firms with billings over $480,000 pay the unreduced tax rate. Fiscal
conditions permitting, the Government intends to extend the tax cut to this last group.
17



3 6. In the short term, the Province intends to compensate for the reductions in tax rates by
increasing collections of over-due accounts. An amnesty on penalties and interest has been
successful--at least with respect to the property tax. Roughly $680 million in overdue taxes
(nearly all from property taxes) wvere declared and rescheduled and will be paid over the
next four years. The collection of arrears, of course, provides only a one-time injection of
revenues. The Government has issued a decree publicizing its intention that there will be no
further Provincial tax amnesties, and has submitted legislation to that effect to reinforce the
message to taxpayers.
3 7. To fill the revenue gap over the longer term the Government is reforming a woefully
inadequate tax administration. As detailed in a separate IMF study requested by the
authorities in 1999, there was widespread under-reporting of gross receipts, auditing is
sporadic, monitoring of collections is spotty, and enforcement actions are weak.  In
response, the Province has embarked on a comprehensive reform program including
establishing systems for monitoring large taxpayers' payments and liabilities, reconciling the
amount declared by taxpayers with the amounts deposited by banks in the Province's
account, adopting a uniform taxpayer identification system, and improving coordination
with federal tax officials. Significant steps have already been taken within the tax units
through business process reengineering, installation of new information technology systems
permitting cross checking of federal and municipal data banks, staff training, and drafting of
new legislation to streamline and accelerate judicial review of tax cases. IDB resources will
support some of these efforts. The Province has already also stepped up enforcement
against firms that are delinquent on the payment of the gross receipts tax. Approximately
1000 taxpayers have been notified of impending sanctions, well over 100 have been closed
for periods ranging from three to five days, and criminal suits and foreclosure proceedings
have been initiated against several companies-small, but new and psychologically telling
steps in C6rdoba.
3 8. Expenditure Control To achieve an overall balance during its term of office, the
province also intends to restrain spending. Staffing is to be reduced in most sectors and
wages are to remain frozen. The Province, nevertheless, confronts two financial challenges.
The first is the cost of selling the provincial bank. As detailed below, the bank is thought to
have a negative net worth of at least $600 million. This debt must be liquidated before the
bank can be sold. Cordoba intends to finance this operation through the sale of the state
Chart 2 Trends in Expenditures
3,000.0
2,500.0        ______               *                             capital works
o 2,000.0 -                                                       mF 1 [X  1|  9   EL  ZL ;3 _..CL w i; _. ; l {3 other transfers
a 1,500.0U~~ >85->LLEL  L     iiL-L- L                           0  subsidies to retirees
1,  o0                                                            transfers to muns
a                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 interest
E1,000.0                              
500 0   (0t 2|  @t  !   g    W  E  u     i    v  - g ] *goods, services
500.0                                                          E3personnel
0.0
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
power company, the concessioning of the state lottery, and the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan.
18



39. C6rdoba's other challenge is the increasing cost of subsidies to the pension system.
Cordoba's public employee pension plan is a defined benefit/defined contribution system, in
which the Province is legally required to make up any difference between inflows and
outflows. Historically, the plan has not made a major claim on general revenues (other than
for mandatory employer contributions). While benefit levels are high, contribution levels
are high too, and have been sufficient to cover outflows on a cash flow basis. This will
cease to be the case as C6rdoba faces a large backlog of active staff who are due to retire
over the next several years. Provincial obligations to the retirement plan are projected to
increase rapidly within the decade in the form of mandatory employer contributions and
subsidies to cover the system's cash flow deficit.
40. In line with a general agreement with all provinces, the Federal Government has
offered to finance the Province's pension deficit. Federal assistance would be phased in,
beginning in 2000. A major condition is that the provincial system be made consistent with
national parameters. This would imply a significant cut in both contributions and benefits.
(Existing retirees, however, would have their benefits maintained.) The immediate effect of
the reform would be a net increase in pension costs to the Province. Because the drop in
employee contributions would go into effect immediately while the Province continued to
pay the existing retirees at the old benefit levels, net payments by the Province would
increase with this effect later offset by increasing federal subsidies. The Province is
currently discussing reform options with the Federal Government. A decision on which is
the best option and firm commitment are not expected for some time, as significant actuarial
analysis of the options is required. Given that the financial viability of the present system is
not in danger in the medium term, the Government has the time to study the problem in
details. In the meantime, the authorities will receive training on the Bank's PROST system
with the goal of using this system to help decide on the specifics of their pension reform and
will undertake the needed studies. The IDB will fund technical assistance for this effort.
41. The Provincial Government is committed to achieving an overall balance (i.e, revenues
sufficient to cover all recurrent and capital expenditures other than amortization) by the year
2003. Continued increases in public savings are therefore critically important to fund
needed capital expenditures.  Adherence to the overall fiscal targets will be closely
monitored by the federal government in order to assist achievement of national
macroeconomic targets. Details of the province's fiscal strategy are provided in Annex C.
42. Municipal Government Finance. C6rdoba has 400 municipal level governments, far
exceeding the national average on a per capita basis. These municipalities suffer from
limited local capacity in managing expenditures and collecting revenues (aggravated by their
protection of prerogatives despite the economies of scale that could be achieved through
consolidation of smaller localities). With overstaffing, few funds are available for other than
salaries, which account for 85 percent of spending. Problems in generating own resources
are due in part to unwillingness to confront taxpayers, as well as poor capacity to determine
property ownership and taxes, bill clients, manage revenues or monitor payments.
Expenditure management also suffers from technical deficiencies and a tradition of
providing public employment to meet social objectives. Moreover, the municipalities have
accumulated significant levels of debt (especially with the publicly owned provincial bank),
worsening the overall fiscal situation of the Province.
19



43. To address these problems the new Provincial Administration signed a Fiscal Clean-up
Pact (Pacto de Saneamiento) with all municipal governments in 1999. In exchange for the
Province assuming existing municipal debt ($250 million) through the issue of 16 year
bonds to be repaid through garnishing three percent of federal revenue sharing flows, the
local governments agreed to a comprehensive series of reform initiatives. These include: (i)
creation of new regional entities which will consolidate several governmental functions for
groups of municipalities; (ii) financial and tax administration reforms (involving cadasters,
tax registries, financial management systems, budget transparency procedures, pension
reforrn, debt registry, procurement reform, etc.); and (iii) technical assistance from the
Province to support these initiatives. The program has already begun, building on pilot
efforts sponsored under the Bank-financed Municipal Development I and II projects, but
sustained progress is required so that local governments avoid rebuilding arrears and debts.
To support the technical bases for the irnprovements, the Province has initiated a program
with the IDB to fund technical assistance, including hardware/software and training, in
implementing financial and tax administrative reforms. Additionally, there are plans to
include municipal employees in the training program and initiate a local economic
development program through the Provincial Ministry of Production.
44. Privatization and Outsourcing. A major step in fiscal reform has been taken through
legislation authorizing the incorporation of private capital into several sectors.  The
Government has decided to downsize the state by privatizing the Provincial bank, and
concessioning the electricity distribution company and the Province's gambling monopoly.
The fiscal impact of these operations will not be known until after completion of the
privatization/concessionings, but can be expected, based on already established precedents
in Argentina, to positively affect fiscal performance and sector efficiency. Technical
assistance from PDPII (depending on the Province's access to funds remaining in this
operation) may support the first two efforts, which are being carried out in line with Bank
procurement rules and with the supervision of Bank technical experts.
45. Bank of the Province of Cordoba. BPC is one of the three largest remaining state
owned provincial banks in Argentina with more than $1.5 billion in deposits and total assets
of about $2.2 billion as of June 1999. Due to a long history of weak management resulting
in high administrative costs and poor portfolio performance, its reported capital was only
$58 million (a debt: equity ratio of 36:1) and its net income was negative. Given a record of
questionable lending practices, and reputation for weak loan recovery, the Government
feared that the bank would continue to lose money and require repeated public sector
recapitalization if it remained publicly owned.
20



Table 3: C6rdoba Provincial Bank
Balance Sheets
(millions of pesos)
.__________________________________________  1995*      1999**
Assets
Cash                                              74                 351
Govt bonds                                        47                 211
Loans                                            1098                859
Credits to financial intermediaries               224                523
Other assets                                      218 _212
Total                                            1661                2155
Liabilities                        L                         _
Deposits                                          798                1722
Debt to financial intermediaries                  622                304
Other liabilities                                 65                  72
Subtotal                                         1485                2097
Equity                                            176                 58
Total                                            1661                2155
Profitabilitv Indicators
Return on equity                                 -13 %               -5 %
Return on assets                                 -2%                  %
* December 199, excludinz Banco Social / ** June 19 99
46.  The Government therefore plans to offer up to 87 percent of BPC shares to private
investors. To do this the Province is dividing BPC into a "good" bank, which can be sold,
and a debt collection entity, which will seek to recover non-performing assets (with the
Province assuming the non-recovered debts). Even creating the "good" bank will be costly
as current losses will have to be funded, appropriate provisions set aside, and the Province
will have to inject substantial cash or bonds to bring it up to a zero net worth. The cost to
the Province of creating the "good" bank and assuming the debt on unrealized recovery on
bad assets transferred to the residual debt collection entity cannot be known before the sale
of the bank, but is tentatively estimated at no less than $600 million. This will increase the
Province's recognized stock of debt. The Government hopes to complete the sale in early
2001. A major internal communications effort is being made with BPC employees, who can
choose from the alternatives of remaining with the privatized bank, early retirement,
voluntary separation with enhanced severance pay, or transferring to another government
agency. Employees will also be able to purchase up to 12 percent of BPC shares at low cost.
47.   Electricity Company. Argentina restructured its electricity sector in 1992, with
vertical and horizontal unbundling of the sector to introduce competition in generation and
in supply of electricity for wholesale and large users. All electricity companies under
federal ownership were privatized. Despite concessioning three thermal plants in the mid-
1990s, the Empresa Provincial de Energia de C6rdoba (EPEC) remained in the public sector
as a full service electricity company with generation, transmission, and distribution
capacities, serving as a regulator of its own operations, and acting as the policy advisor to
Government on energy issues. With over 600,000 customers and 3760 Gwh of energy sold
in 1998, EPEC is the fourth largest distribution company in Argentina and the second largest
still under Government control. Two thirds of the population is served directly by EPEC,
largely in urban areas, with the remaining third serviced by 209 cooperatives that buy
electricity at wholesale prices from EPEC.
21



Table 4: EPEC's Ranking by Indicators of Operational Efficiency
Indicator                       EPEC Rank            percent efficiency of
highest rank company
Users per employee                   19                     500
Energy per employee                  16                     300
Energy losses                        21                     257
Average distribution tariff          13                     100
48.  Despite several operational improvements in recent years, including an impressive
increase in labor productivity of 9 percent per annum since 1992, the operational
performance of EPEC remains in the lower 50 percent of all distribution companies in
Argentina. Its ranking amongst the 23 distribution companies considered is particularly low
for energy losses (21) and users per employee (19), implying significant scope for efficiency
gains. In terms of tariffs, these have been falling relative to federal companies with
progressive rebalancing over different consumer categories over the last couple of years.
This has been caused in part by the fact that the federal sector reforms now allow large
buyers to buy directly from the wholesale market, which has compelled EPEC to reduce
tariffs for large customers and eroded its base for cross-subsidies. The reduction in tariffs
has also impacted its financial situation, as net sales revenues have remained stagnant
despite the fact that total energy sales increased at 4.3 percent per annum during 1990-98.
Moreover, EPEC still owns several small and relatively inefficient thermal plants and small
multi-purpose dams (primarily used for irrigation, flood control, and water supply with
electricity generation as a last priority).  These plants supply a fraction of electricity
consumption in the Province, with the bulk of power purchased off of the national grid. The
Federal Government is also transferring to the Province a large pumping station on the Rio
Grande River. Even though EPEC has trimmed its administrative costs by 20 percent, it
faces increasing competition to supply large industrial users. Its financial situation remains
highly vulnerable, with negative cash flow in two of the five years since 1994. Overall
assets are stagnating (most dams were built in the 1950s or before) as new investment has
been lower than depreciation and the structure of fmancing shows a very high ratio of short
term to long term debt.
49.  To reduce costs and improve investment the Government is committed to greater
private participation in the entire electricity sector as authorized by Law 8837 on the Private
Incorporation into the Public Sector. For distribution, the Government is restructuring the
existing company and seeking to concession it for up to 35 years. Cooperatives providing
services at the time of the issuance of the law have a pre-defined period to adapt to the
6
provisions of the law and are given concessions of up to 10 years . In transmission, a new
agency (DESPROCAR) has been created to oversee open access to all potential suppliers
with no discrimination, and with the access fee for the use of the transmnission system to be
established by the Government and reviewed subsequently by the regulator.  Thermal
generating plants will be sold outright (with the concessioned units transferred at the end of
their concession period) and the hydro plants concessioned (because of the desire to
maintain provincial ownership of water resources). Detailed privatization plans will be
6 The current law says "no longer than ten years", but this is under revision to "at least ten years" as it was
considered a mistake.
22



prepared by strategic consultants now being hired following Bank procurement rules. Both
thermal and hydro-plants are regulated by the Federal Government and subject to national
environmental standards and audits. Environmental audits will be completed prior to any
sale or concession of EPEC assets and winning bidders will be required to commit
contractually to prepare a time-bound environmental impact remediation plan as warranted
(see Annex D). The Government hopes to complete the concessioning/sale of EPEC and the
plants within a year.
50.  Lottery Concessioning. The concessioning of the provincial monopoly in lotteries
and casinos is viewed by the Govermnent as an important component of the reform agenda,
both in fiscal and transparency terms. As in the other sectors, the incorporation of private
capital and management is expected to augment efficiency, leading to increased tourism and
income for the Government, both through tax collections and concession payments. The
authorities recognize that earnings from the lottery are currently earmarked for social
protection programs (representing 40 percent of the Solidarity Ministry budget) and that
alternative sources of funding will be required. To promote transparency, the authorities are
following Bank procurement rules and are seeking to solicit bids from international firms
knowledgeable about private sector run lotteries in developed countries.
5 1. Debt. A major goal of the new Administration is to stop the unsustainable growth of
provincial debt and if possible to reduce its stock. An independent financial evaluation last
year estimated the debt at $3.3 billion in July, 1999. A large part of this is either disputed or
contingent. The debt consists of four major blocks.
* The first block consists of contractual debt to BPC, private domestic banks, international
organizations and various non-banking institutions (including suppliers' credits,
rescheduled debts to contractors, and bonds). Much of it results from the conversion of
arrears, first, into CECORs and then into contractual debt to commercial banks. As of
December 1999, debt in this category totaled $1.02 billion. The amount was undisputed.
*  The second block of debt, totaling $964 million, consists of disputed claims against the
Treasury by provincial agencies. The largest share--$770 million-represents claims by
the Pension Fund. This debt arises from arrears on subsidies to special pensions (such as
the police) and normal employer contributions. Traditionally, the Province's policy has
been to transfer just enough funds to the pension fund to permit it to meet its obligations
to retirees. This has often been less than the amount required by statute. The Pension
Fund now regards these shortfalls as loans to the Province and demands repayment. The
Province and the Pension Fund are in the process of negotiating a settlement of this debt
and expect resolution by the end of 2000.
* The third block of debt, totaling $841 million, consists of contingent liabilities. This
includes pending court judgments against the Province, and guarantees arising from the
sale of accounts receivable and non-performing BPC loans. The Province recognizes the
latter debt but is not servicing it, arguing that the liability will be extinguished once the
bank is sold.
* The Province also had a fairly high level of accounts payable at the end of 1999. The
total--$331 million--represented a significant claim on resources and a major increase
over the level of a year earlier. It is not, however, indicative of growing short term
23



liabilities. Due to an accounting change introduced under the current government,
obligations that were once off budget are now reflected in the debt tables. If these are
included in the 1998 figure, accounts payable actually declined between 1998 and 1999,
and are expected to continue to do so.
Table 5: Debt stock as of 31 December 1999
(millions of pesos)
Contractual debt                                                           1022
Domestic banks                                                              778
BPC                                                                        155
private domestic banks                                                     623
Intemational banks                                                           161
Non-banking institutions                                                      83
debt to contractors, supplier credits                                        50
bond debt (CECORs)                                                           11
Debt subject to dispute                                                     964
claims by pension fund                                                      771
Contingent liabilities                                                      841
court judgements                                                           332
Accounts payable                                                            331
Total                                                                      3158
52.   The Government intends to liquidate some of its debt using proceeds from  the
concessioning of the Provincial electricity company (EPEC) and the Province's gambling
monopoly. It is estimated that these will yield about $1 billion. New debt may be required
to finance the privatization of BPC, however. In any case, the Government is committed to
maintaining a maximum debt:revenue ratio of 0.7:1, just slightly over the proportion
prevailing as of August 2000.
53.  Outlook. The fiscal outlook for Cordoba reflects the Government's strategy: further
improvements in tax administration are expected to offset a proposed final cut in tax rates; a
near freeze on hiring and salaries will keep the costs of active personnel under control. The
sale of assets will partly offset the costs of privatizing BPC. An end to the current recession
is also likely to help, by increasing federal revenue sharing (once the current freeze expires)
and expanding the base of provincial taxes. The next few years are nevertheless likely to be
challenging, as C6rdoba confronts growing pension expenditures and the costs of privatizing
BCP, while awaiting the end of the freeze on revenue sharing and the phasing-in of federal
pension subsidies.
Chart3Trendsin Balances                   54.    Charts 3   and 4
20l 0                                                   illustrate  a  likely  fiscal
20.0 -___________________
15.0 -_                                                 scenario for the next five
10.0                                                    years. It assumes moderate
:  5.0 -  /      \_                                     economic growth over the
C - currrent baance
-5.0                                     -U-- overal balance    period.   Own-source
e -10.0-                                                    revenues are projected to
-1520 -___0-__                                           grow  at 4.5%  per year.
-25.0            -                                       Revenue      sharing      is
projected to grow at three
percent (once the revenue
24



sharing freeze expires). Spending on active personnel is projected to remain constant. No
change in the parameters of the pension system is assumed to have occurred. Changes in the
stock of debt reflect new borrowing to finance the sale of BCP and plus any cash flow
deficits over the period, less debt reductions financed by the sale of assets and scheduled
amortization. As shown, this scenario yields a gradually increasing current account surplus
Chart 4 Trends in Stock of debt             over the period 2000-
2004.   The  overall
70%                                              -      deficit would decline
60%                                                     gradually,       until
50%                          -_                         achieving the nil target
g 40%                                                     in   2003.       The
i 30%                                                     Provincial debt stock
20%                                                     would         decline
10%                                                     gradually,   due   to
0%                                                                 scheduled
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005   amortization.
B. MODERNIZING PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
55.  An important complement to the Government's longer-term goals of fiscal stability
and economic growth is its ambitious state modernization program. The Governrment
believes that C6rdoba lags behind the nation, and foreign competitors both in the southern
cone of South America and further abroad, in establishing the appropriate conditions for
private sector led growth. Fiscal stability is a necessary, but not sufficient condition for
attracting or retaining domestic and foreign investors. Greater efficiency, effectiveness, and
transparency of public services are necessary for an improved business climate as well as
better services to citizens. Consequently, state modernization, with a broader and more
ambitious agenda than attempted in most other provinces, is one of the keystones of the
C6rdoba program.
56. Financial Management. The sharp limitation in spending applied by the new
Administration meets the first objective of proper budgeting-fiscal discipline. But the
authorities recognize that this effort has not necessarily addressed distortions in allocative
effectiveness and spending efficiency. For example, the Ministry of Solidarity (which
oversees social assistance programs) has faced serious and unpredictable fluctuations in its
cash flow, undermining program effectiveness. To better formulate and execute budgets
smoothly based on accurate and timely information as well as longer term strategy inputs,
the Government is initiating a major reform of government financial management, building
on investments in new information technology systems already undertaken by the current
Government. The anticipated reforms in budget, accounting, cash and debt management,
and procurement, supported by technical assistance financed by the IDB, are expected to be
a major building block for improved public sector effectiveness, efficiency, and
transparency. The Government believes that creating modern accounting and financial
management systems in line with international standards would contribute notably to its
efforts to improve the business climate.
25



57. Civil Service Reform. Personnel is the Province's largest single item of expenditure,
consuming nearly half of total revenues in 1998. Human resources are also the Province's
major asset for meeting the responsibilities of government. The Administration's goal of
fiscal constraint will affect the wage bill, but its objective of improving service delivery will
require capacity strengthening and reform of the performance culture. These in turn imply
investments, leadership, and specific programs to improve organization and management,
extend training, rebalance skills, and adjust incentives. The Government's strategy is to
retrain workers where possible, transfer them where appropriate, and facilitate their
departure when warranted.
5 8. It is widely acknowledged that overstaffing exists in many public institutions. This has
resulted from weak fiscal and management controls, widespread hiring of substitute teachers
to fill in for absentee teachers, and a lingering concept of the public sector as the employer
of last resort. In April 2000 public employment was estimated at 82,000 "permanent" staff
plus 15,000 contract employees. This compares to 79,500 permanent staff in 1995, and an
unknown number of contract employees. These figures are tentative due to poor records and
payroll management. Moreover, the Government, as a compromise to secure legislative
approval of its program of privatization, committed itself to absorb those state enterprise
employees wishing to remain in the public sector.  The recently approved State
Modernization Law (Law 8836), however, sets forth a number of instruments, short of
outright discharge, that can be employed to reduce the work force. For example the
Government is encouraging early retirement and has initiated a scheme to subsidize private
sector employment of civil servants. Except in education and health, the Government has
restored the strict hiring controls imposed by the previous administration so some reductions
in staff will therefore be achieved through attrition. New hires are also being contracted on
fixed term basis, which over time will provide greater flexibility to the authorities to adjust
to skills mix requirements. An information technology driven clean up of the payroll is
underway and savings through the elimination of so-called "ghost" workers and employees
paid for more than one job are already accruing. The authorities are maintaining a wage
freeze that has been in effect since 1993. Taken together, these measures will probably be
sufficient to cap the wage bill of active personnel at its present level over the next several
years, and even allow for selective adjustments in compensation.
59.  To strengthen the civil service the Government intends to initiate a comprehensive
reform program involving improved human resource management, training, and
organizational restructuring. To improve management and control, a census to determine
the number and characteristics of all current employees has been initiated. This exercise is
preliminary to creating an establishment register and addressing properly skills mix and
training requirements. To help in this, a major program of institutional capacity building
within the Department of Human Resources will be undertaken with technical assistance
financed by the IDB. A review of job classifications and public sector employment policies
will also be conducted, with the aim of assessing the incentive structure within the budget
realities and possible links between performance evaluation and compensation. Training is
also seen as a major need within the public sector, both on substantive and process skills.
Special attention will be given to creating a modern and effective corps of managerial
personnel through the upgrading of managerial skills.
26



60. Organizational Reform. The authorities do not believe that discrete reforms in civil
service and financial management will achieve their maximum benefit without a coordinated
agency specific focus and implementation. Therefore, to consolidate these reforms, plus
support initiatives in transparency and administrative procedure streamlining, the
Government has decided to target several agencies as pilots for programs of organizational
reform. These agencies would undergo structure and function reviews, business process
reengineering, and change management efforts, overseen by a State Modernization
Commission with specific change agendas, performance indicators, and deadlines. The
effort may be supported by technical assistance provided by the Bank as part of supervision
of the proposed loan and complemented by the support provided for a similar effort by the
Federal Government under the restructured Y2K loan for Modernization of the State,
drawing on considerable international experience in agency reforms both in the public and
private sectors. The effort would be limited to pilot agencies in order to take account of
absorptive capacity constraints, learn and apply lessons, and select targets with the greatest
need and/or chances of demonstrable and replicable success. Three agencies have been
identified for this restructuring process-- the Ministries of Finance, Production and Labor,
and Solidarity.
61. Transparency. The fight against corruption is high on the Argentine national agenda
and the new Provincial administration has identified improved transparency in government
operations as one of its major goals. A series of initiatives-legislative, technical, and
administrative-have already been launched to increase citizen participation in decision
making, improve the timeliness and accuracy of financial information and increase public
access to it (including creation of a web site), reform procurement systems, and strengthen
prosecution of corruption cases. An Anti-corruption Office has been established and the
Government has created a broad based Judicial Council to vet and decide on the
appointment of judges (the Governor having voluntarily ended the previous system which
gave the chief executive maximum discretion in the selection of judges). Privatization of
BPC should eliminate the bank as a source of arbitrary credit allocation, and the
incorporation of private capital in other enterprises should act to increase competition and
reduce arbitrary or non-market based decision making.  The effort to streamline
administrative procedures, increase accountability, and focus on results will also act to
reduce discretion, increase public employee understanding of their responsibilities and
citizen awareness of their rights, and hopefully reduce the delays in decision making which
can give rise to petty corruption. A major challenge now is to integrate these various
initiatives in a manner that maximizes efforts among various stakeholders and strengthens
institutions, incentives, and control systems for a sustainable improvement in transparent
governance. A joint effort of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches with the
support of civil society groups has therefore been launched to identify specific changes
needed in the legal framework, training, interagency coordination, and procurement systems.
In the latter, the Province is investigating intensively the possible use of an internet based
system for government purchases, the CompraNet system developed in Mexico.
C. SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM
62. The Government believes that more efficient and effective health care, education, and
social protection are necessary investments for its citizens. Improvements in human capital
formation and social sector spending will pay multiple economic and social benefits and
27



consequently constitute the third major pillar of the Government's vision to strengthen the
Province's competitive position and future.  The aim  of the financial and public
administration reforms in the broadest sense are to create fiscal space for more sustainable
and growing investments in the social sectors. These efforts will be complemented by
programmatic policy reforms which aim to increase citizen involvement, increase
competition, pursue successful alternatives to traditional service delivery systems, and
promote a culture that values performance and results.
63.  Health. Health indicators in C6rdoba are reasonable relative to other provinces of
Argentina and countries with similar GDP per capita. Access to health services is universal,
life expectancy was 72.8 years in 1995, the proportion of newborns with low birth weight
was 6.6 percent in 1996, and infant mortality declined from 27.1 per 1000 in 1984 to 16.8 pr
1000 in 1998. People from neighboring provinces come to C6rdoba to take advantage of its
more advanced health facilities and specialized care. If anything, there is an excess of
medical infrastructure and an over supply of highly specialized physicians, creating an
artificially inflated demand for health care. As in the rest of Argentina, the majority of
health care services are provided by professionals working within the private sector7 while
financed primarily though mandated quasi public (the "obras sociales" or social funds) or
public sources (national social security for elderly and disabled persons - PAMI). The
public sector provides a wide range of preventive, outpatient, and inpatient curative services
free-of-charge with federal, municipal, and mostly provincial funding. The social security
system includes a few "obras sociales" that deliver health services directly to their members.
64. Despite this relatively positive situation, significant problems of regulation,
management and planning affect the system and result in higher cost and lower quality
services than necessary. As in the rest of Argentina, the quality of care in C6rdoba is very
poor for poor people, who are captive to public hospitals and cannot obtain better health care
from alternative providers unless they pay for these services out-of-pocket. The Ministry of
Health has lost its role as the planning, regulatory and control agency of health activities in
the Province, limiting itself primarily to financing/purchasing and providing health services
itself. The Provincial Government manages many hospitals in this hospital-based system,
and there is widespread sentiment that the public sector is oversized and inefficient. Most of
the hospitals managed by the Provincial government are old and inadequately maintained
with obsolete equipment. Hospital staffing and salaries are not under control of hospital
directors and there is little incentive to use these resources efficiently. Moreover, major
health related investments in the private sector are stagnant and private providers depend on
social security payments for financing.
65. Sixty one percent of the population in C6rdoba was covered by some kind of health
insurance in 1998: 28 percent by the Provincial Institute for Medical Attention (IPAM), 12
percent by PAMI; 18 percent by other Provincial Social Funds; and 4 percent by private
insurance companies. Health care for the remaining 39 percent uninsured population is
financed mostly through Provincial budget allocations to public facilities, which provide
health care for free at the point of service. In practice health care financing depends on two
main pillars- social security-based health insurance and direct Provincial government health
expenditures, which finance 40 percent and 34 percent respectively of expenditures in
7 The private sector owns 53.4% of health care facilities and 5 1.1% of hospital beds in the province.
28



health. Both have incurred large deficits in recent years and periodically experience severe
financing crises. Private spending, which includes both private insurance schemes and out-
of-pocket expenditure, provide the remaining 26 percent of health care financing. The
financing situation is complicated by the appearance of several commercial companies
(empresas gerenciadoras) that work as financial/purchasing intermediaries between union-
based social security (obras sociales sindicales) and health care providers.
66. Government's Strategy. The new administration has designed and initiated a health
sector reform program aimed at: strengthening the Ministry of Health, restructuring health
care financing, and improving equity, efficiency and quality of the operations of public
hospitals. The authorities have worked closely with the Bank and have reviewed the
experiences in earlier Provincial Reform Loans and health sector reform projects, including
the Provincial Health Sector Development Project (PRESSAL) and the Health Insurance
Reform Loan with the complementary Health Insurance Technical Assistance Project.
Based on this experience, the Government proposes to undertake reforms consisting of:
*  Strengthening the Provincial Ministry of Health in the area of health policy and
administration. The program would increase the capacity of the Ministry to: (i) act as
the planning, regulatory and control agency of health care activities and promote
functional integration of the public and private sectors, and better coordinate with social
security; (ii) create an agency (Registro de Unidades de Gesti6n de Prestaciones -
REGEPRESA) to regulate the activity of the empresas gerenciadoras, and better
regulate the activities of private insurers and providers; and (iii) strengthen its capacity
to supervise the purchasing process of medical equipment, monitor the service delivery
capacity of public and private hospitals, and improve clients' control over quality of
care.
*  Restructuring Health Care Financing to better support targeting of public and
personal health services to the uninsured poor, to improve the efficiency and financial
sustainability of the Provincial health insurance carrier, and to ensure adequate resources
to provide essential public health services to the entire population. The introduction of a
new payment system based on a service-package and per-capita funding formula along
with the establishment of competing integrated networks of public and private providers,
is expected to achieve a stabilization of IPAM's expenditures on the macro level and an
improvement in the choice of health care assistance and services on the micro level. An
effective regulatory framework will be established to protect the poorest IPAM's
members from the risks of the new per-capita funding system. The Ministry will also
implement a pilot scheme in the west (Area Oeste) of the Province to identify and
evaluate the cost, impact and strategy of switching from supply-side to insurance-based
subsidies for the poor. To achieve universal coverage, the Ministry plans to increase
IPAM's risk pool and use its existing management structure. It will undertake a detailed
analysis of the plan's financial feasibility as well as of its implementation strategy. Its
aim is to help narrow the gap in equity between the individuals covered by insurance and
those who only have access to public hospitals. To ensure the adequate financing of
primary and preventive care during as broader fiscal reforms are implemented, the
budgets for these items will be maintained in real terms for 2001 and 2002.
29



* Improving Public Hospitals by developing decentralized institutional, managerial and
cost-recovery capacity as well as implementing transparent budget processes based on
demand parameters rather than incremental adjustments to past budget.   The
Government will also seek to equip hospitals with sophisticated information and
financial management systems to be able to bill multiple insurers for their services.
Efforts will be made to prevent hospitals from discriminating against patients based on
type or level of insurance coverage.
67. Education. Education in C6rdoba suffers from relatively high costs, low quality, and
poor motivation and school attendance by both students and teachers. Limited capital and
maintenance investments, high teacher absenteeism, poor teacher training, non-objective
distribution of subsidies to private education, and poor use of human resources challenge the
system. The current public education budget (equivalent to about 6-8 percent of provincial
GDP versus 5-7 percent for the OECD) funds student costs of $1,287/year and $1,878/year
at primary and secondary levels respectively, about 11 percent higher than the national
average. This spending ($691 million in 1998) equaled about 22 percent of the budget
(compared to 29, 29, and 25 percent for the Provinces of Buenos Aires, Mendoza, and Santa
Fe respectively). However, 95-98 percent of education recurrent expenditures goes to
teacher and staff salaries, squeezing funding for teaching materials and maintenance
resulting in a dearth of needed books and equipment as well deteriorating infrastructure. (In
the OECD, recurrent non-salary spending is commonly between 10-15 percent of the
recurrent budget).
Table 6: Ministry of Education Expenditures (per cost category) 1995-2000
.(millions of pesos)
Category                1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   1995-2000 (%)
Total expenditures      635.4  588.2  653.5  690.9  731.2  759.1         19.5
Recurrent               628.2  579.4  648.1  688.2  731.1  757.1         20.5
Personnel               471.2  431.1  487.6  515.7  546.8  562.3         19.3
Goods and Services       0.3    0.2    0.4    0.4
Non-personnel services   4.9    4.4    4.7    8.6    7.5   12.8          158
Transfers to private    151.8  143.7  155.3  163.5  176.7  181.8         19.8
Capital expenditures     7.1    8.7    5.4    2.6       0     2.0       -71.8
Capital goods            5.6    6.4    1.3    1.23      0     2.0       -64.2
Public Works             1.5    2.2    4.0    1.41      0      0 
68.  Schooling consists of three levels: (i) initial or preschool; (ii) primary (a compulsory
six years); and (iii) secondary, including three years of lower secondary education (now also
complusory) and three years of upper secondary education with choices among five major
designed to focus on labor market demands and job training. Private schools are a major
component of education in the Province (accounting for over half of students in secondary
schools) and almost 90 percent of C6rdoba's private schools receive partial or complete
public subsidies. On the plus side C6rdoba is the only province to have fully implemented
the new federally prescribed upper secondary education structure, and it produced in the
academic year 1999 its first graduates under this system. In total, the system comprises
4,800 schools - 3,800 public (80 percent) and 970 private (20 percent); 46,000 teachers (of
which 31,500 in public schools), and about 151 teaching institutes, serving about 760,000
students.
30



Table 7: 1998 Pupil Enrollment per Level (Public and Private)
Total    Preschool Primary Lower Secondary Upper Secondary
Total                762,551   70,502  423,046     235,117         33,886
Public Sector        532,423   50,828  321,835     144,502         15,258
Percent in Public Sector    70  72       76          62              45
Private Sector       230.128   19,674  101,211     90,615          18,628
Percent in Private Sector    30  28      24          38              55
69. Government Strategy. The Government has initiated an ambitious education reform
program aiming to increase efficiency and significantly improve quality, while meeting
expanding enrollment. Savings will be pursued through class consolidation, control of
absenteeism, reduction of overhead costs, strengthening of public teacher training
institutions, and a new subsidy scheme for private schools. These efficiency gains will
permit increased spending on educational materials (books and equipment), infrastructure,
and compensatory measures to encourage poor children to stay in school and to increase the
quality of rural schools. The Province intends to increase investment from a negligible level
of the budget to at least 5-8 percent over two years. Administrative and organizational
reforrms will strengthen the capacity to design and manage educational policies and
strategies. Particular attention is focused on gender, including targeted educational support
for adolescent mothers and curricular adjustments to include components on gender issues
and equity. The program builds upon extensive experience of the Bank and the IDB, and
implementation would be supported through various operations being coordinated by the
National Ministry of Education. Specific actions include:
70. Efficiency and quality improvements. Abuses of leave rules by teachers are endemic
in C6rdoba, as in many other provinces. The excessive hiring of substitute teachers
consequently inflates the total staff budget about 18 percent, and interrupts the delivery of
education services.  The average student/teacher ratio is also low at 20/1 for initial
education; 18/1 for primary education and 8/1 for secondary education (1998). These
numbers do not imply small class sizes, but rather reflect excess staff in administration and
substitute teachers.  Finally, C6rdoba participates in the National Project of Student
Scholarships with a total of 11,550 scholarships awarded to urban schools and 562 to rural
schools in 1999. The Province is responsible for identification of beneficiaries, and for
control and follow-up of recipients, but the oversight of the program is considered to be
weak and subject to abuse. To address these and other issues the Government is putting
particular emphasis on upgrading teaching and service delivery through:
*  Reform  of the Teacher Statute, which governs teacher pay and conditions of
employment, to include: (i) a salary scheme with incentives for quality, results, and
attendance; (ii) selection of directors and teachers at school unit level through a
competitive system; (iii) reformulation of the area bonus into one based on educational
risk; (iv) new supervisory functions; (v) requirements of a teaching degree; and (vi) a
new leave policy.
*  Tightening of teacher leave regulations and improving the system for medical checks on
sick leave aiming to reduce the use of substitute teachers significantly to below 4
percent.
31



*  Administration reform through: (i) a better system for the administration of human
resources ("Legajo Unico") and computerized staff and teacher monitoring, including: a
single teacher file, a new salary payment system, and computerized administrative
processes); (ii) design of new objectives for the staff belonging to the central
administration and the supervisory system; and (iii) redrafting staffing requirements for
the upper-secondary level, which will produce savings to be reassigned to new
investments in those schools. These activities would generate an improvement in the
current student/teacher ratios (from 18 to 24 for primary level and from 8 to at least 15
for secondary level).
*  Implementation of quality improvement policies for students focusing on: (i) reduced
repetition and improved retention rates, especially for pupils from disadvantaged
households and communities; (ii) improved school environment and a targeted gender
strategy; (iii) programs to prevent or better handle violence and criminality within
schools; (iv) improved teacher and pupil support programs and increased frequency of
remedial courses; and (v) implementation of a provincial system for better quality and
performance monitoring and evaluation.
*  Rationalizing and regulating the provision of initial schooling. One of the most serious
problems is that many young children repeat the first years of primary education,
because they come from poorer households and/or have not received adequate pre-
schooling to prepare them. This causes significant wastage at the primary level, and
indirectly at the secondary level. The Cordoba Government will support the gradual
development of preschool access with a focus on quality and targeting the poorest
groups of the province (because the richer part of the Cordoba population profits already
from private (fee-based) pre-schooling services). It will also stimulate participation of
the private sector, exchange of best practices between the private and public providers,
and adequate monitoring and evaluation practices.
71. Piloting decentralized management to enhance school autonomy and accountability.
C6rdoba would draw upon the experiences of other provinces initiating similar programs
under PRL programs. This would include:
*  A new decentralized management model at the school level would include: (i) full
application of the improved computerized management information systems which
would significantly reduce the administrative burdens for head teachers and school
directors at all levels; (ii) decentralization of resource administration for rnaintenance
and other operating expenses, which will increase their efficiency, targeting and quality
of results; (iii) more local district and school responsibility in teacher selection and
analysis of training needs; and (iv) a pilot program for improving quality with remedial
courses for students with learning difficulties.
*  Administrative decentralization would be promoted via two funding schemes. The first
would allocate funds to promote compensation for disadvantaged schools and the second
would distribute resources produced by the reform of the leave system and increased
absenteeism control to schools that meet targets for teacher attendance. Advisory
Councils, with expanded parental participation, will be created to administer the finds.
32



* Pilot testing a more advanced scheme of school autonomy including local school
participation in teacher appointments and decentralized responsibility for payment of
teacher salaries and other recurrent expenditures. The C6rdoba Ministry of Education
plans to start a pilot in at least 400 schools in the school year 2001, and expand this to at
least 1,000 schools in 2002. These schools will be allocated non-salary recurrent funds,
and the school directors and staff will be provided with management and administrative
training.
72. Improving the allocation of resources to the private sector to enhance efficiency,
equity and quality. About 24 percent of the public education budget is currently transferred
to 970 private schools as subsidies, with allocation largely based on historical agreements
and the number of teachers employed.  As such they provide little incentive for
improvements. A new system for allocating the subsidies would be based on objective
criteria including: (i) number of students attending, (ii) student socioeconomic background,
(iii) contributions by the parents and the social economic background of the district; and (iv)
quality of schools (service provision, extra curricular activities). This is expected to enhance
incentives for efficiency, equity and quality, as well as increase private sector participation.
All the private schools will be connected to the staff and teacher monitoring system ("Legajo
Unico"), which will greatly enhance the performance and cost-efficiency monitoring of
private schools.
73. Rationalizing teacher training and teacher training institutes to improve their cost-
efficiency and enhance teaching quality. The quality of the teacher training system is low,
demonstrated by the fact that of 10,000 annual graduates from 151 teacher training
institutes, only 1,900 meet the requirements for a teaching degree. To address this the
Province would: (i) develop accreditation criteria for teacher training institutes focused on
efficiency and output quality; (ii) introduce public financing criteria linked to the agreed
performance criteria; and (iii) develop a strategy to achieve a balanced demand and supply
of teachers for each level of education (most teacher training institutes produce only primary
teachers and do not address the new secondary curriculum demands). These efforts should
make the teacher training institutes more cost-efficient, close (or encourage mergers of)
those which are not sufficiently demand-driven, and generally improve the relevance and
quality of the teacher training. The Province would also start the process of improving the
professional career development opportunities for teachers and administrative staff in order
to improve their motivation.
74. Social Protection. Severe pockets of poverty exist in C6rdoba. When last surveyed in
1991, 14 percent of the population had at least one unmet basic need. Slums in metropolitan
C6rdoba, according to a more recent study, register high levels of poverty and social risk,
including high unemployment rates (19 percent), low secondary school enrollment (61
percent), poor basic infrastructure conditions (42 percent without running water in the home)
and repeated risk of flooding due to location of shanties on riverbanks unsuitable for
housing construction'. The Bank's latest estimates of urban poverty indicate that the
poverty rate in the Province was close to the national rate of 29 percent in 1998. Rural
poverty has not been surveyed, but is estimated to exceed that of urban areas.
8 Ministry of Solidarity SIEMPROCOR household survey, 1999
33



75.  Social protection in C6rdoba is characterized by inadequate funding and weak
implementation capacity. The Ministry of Solidarity is the main government agency
responsible for social assistance, administering a wide variety of programs: (a) food boxes;
(b) child protection services; (c), secondary school scholarships, (d) micro-credit for
women; and (e) old-age and disability pensions for the indigent.  Its total spending
represents 4 percent of Provincial expenditures in 2000.  The incoming Government
inherited a sizable deficit in July 1999, however, wvith the Ministry's entire budget having
been committed by mid-year so a large share of the year 2000 resources have been used to
pay off last year's commitments. Another complication is a lack of predictability in the
Ministry's monthly operating budget stemming from fluctuating income from the Ministry's
two main funding sources--the provincial lottery (whose intake varies each month, and is
currently 25-30 percent lower than last year) and provincial tax revenues. This budgetary
uncertainty leads to costly internal inefficiencies and ad hoc and unstable program
implementation. These deficiencies are aggravated by more fundamental weaknesses in
organization evidenced by extremely high administrative costs (over 20 percent of budget),
excessive staff/client ratios (nearly 1 to 1 in one major department), skills mix imbalances,
and outmoded and cumbersome administrative procedures. Finally, implementation is
plagued by policy inadequacies leading to problems in coverage/targeting, lack of
transparency in eligibility criteria (leading to distribution of benefits based on client-based
relationships), and leakage to unintended beneficiaries (which may exceed 25 percent of
spending in some programs according to the Ministry).
76.  Government Strategy. The new administration has made substantial progress in
developing a strategy for enhancing social assistance program design and delivery. It
includes: (a) reevaluating target groups, internal funding allocations, and program design;
(b) improving the transparency of program design and identification of beneficiaries; (c)
extending programs to the interior of the Province; (d) enhancing coordination with
municipalities and community organizations; and (e) improving program monitoring and
evaluation.  In the past year substantive advances have been made in improving
informational tools, particularly for program targeting and monitoring, in the form of
application of the national registry of beneficiaries to C6rdoba Province (SIEMPROCOR)
with support from the Bank-financed Social Protection IV project and the IDB, and
expanded under the SSAL, and identifying the main characteristics of vulnerable households
in metropolitan C6rdoba. The Ministry's goal is to extend this effort by creating a single
registry of beneficiaries to improve transparency in program targeting, as well as to facilitate
monitoring and evaluation. This initiative mirrors what the Nation and other provinces are
developing under the support of on-going social sector projects and the proposed Social
Protection V project.
77. Implementation of this strategy, however, will require: (i) improvements in financial
management and funding; and (ii) institutional reform. To help meet the Government's
overall fiscal targets, the Ministry is tightening oversight of service providers by establishing
quality norms, clearing arrears and targeting key programs for budget allocations. For the
longer term the Government expects that variability in social assistance funding will be
reduced by reestablishment overall fiscal stability (through tax administration and spending
reforms) and improved financial management (leading to better revenue and expenditure
forecasting).
34



78. The C6rdoba PRL is the first provincial reform operation to include an explicit Social
Protection component, patterned after what has been done at the Federal level under the
SSAL. It is designed to ensure that the most vulnerable groups are protected over the short
term by securing commitment from the authorities to maintain social assistance spending for
protected programs at the budget levels of 1999 and to minimize variations in actual
monthly budget allocations. To promote internal efficiency the Ministry of Solidarity has
been selected as a priority pilot for organizational reform under the initiative discussed in
paragraph 60 above. The reform effort would review the structure and function of the
Ministry, its legal framework, substantive goals and business processes, staffing
requirements, audit operations, and change management needs. This effort will be initiated
within the next 6 months. The Ministry will also conduct an assessment of its social
assistance programs, including beneficiary assessments, and seek to improve the coverage of
its registry of beneficiaries (Registro Unico de Beneficiarios). It is anticipated that the
combined reforms would lay the basis in the medium term for a significant strengthening of
social protection interventions for vulnerable groups through: (i) improved targeting
mechanisms; (ii) strengthened internal organization and management processes; and (iii) a
fundamental review of the Province's social protection strategy identifying key social risks,
assessing current program responsiveness, and evaluating issues of equity in social
protection spending.
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Loan Objective and Rationale
79. The objective of the Loan is to help the Province of C6rdoba to reform and restructure
its government so as to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services within
fiscally sound policies. C6rdoba was selected to participate in the program because of the
opportunity for significant reform, as it had been lagging in the earlier reform phase, the
positive track record demonstrated since 1999, the pressing need to enhance the efficiency
and quality of social sector spending, and the strong demonstration effect it would have on
other provinces given the Province's size and economic importance.
8 0. The proposed operation supports fiscal reform as well as structural reform in the social
sectors, following on the design of the Second Provincial Reform Loans. The provinces
play a large role in the Argentine public sector, responsible for 40 percent of public
expenditures, and in recent years, one-third of the consolidated public deficit. Reducing the
deficit at the provincial level is particularly complicated due to the their primary
responsibility for the social sectors--education and health--which are critical to the country's
long term economic growth and poverty reduction. A few provinces have managed to keep
their fiscal accounts in reasonable balance; however, social services are provided poorly and
inefficiently in almost all provinces, when compared to other countries of similar level of
income per capita. The PRLs focus on promoting improved social sector delivery systems
within the context of general fiscal balance.
81. The proposed loan is consistent with the FY01-04 CAS presented to the Board on June
27, 2000 (R2000-116 IFC R2000-120). The fiscal justification for sub-national reform
lending, as discussed in the Board Paper (R96-55) and approved on April 16, 1996, rests on
the link between fiscal deficits and pressures on the current account of the balance of
payments. In Argentina, this link is more critical t?-an in other countries due to the strict
35



critical than in other countries due to the strict rules of the currency board type arrangement
of the Convertibility Law. Persistent fiscal deficits with resulting pressures on the current
account of the balance of payments can place immediate pressures on the money supply and
the financial system. These pressures can reduce the credibility of the country's long run
ability to maintain the Convertibility Plan. At the level of the reforming Province, there is a
need to finance the cost of fiscal reform. In the case of Cordoba, the reforms will have a
short-run impact on the level of expenditures (pension reform, absorbing losses of BPC,
complementary social investments, and investments in institutional capacity building)
calling for additional resources to ease the transition process.
Lessons Learned from Previous Operations
82. The Bank has extensive experience in the reform of the public sector through a series
of structural and sector reform loans and with sub-national development projects in
Argentina. Key lessons may be summarized as follows. First, projects must focus on
significant reforms that are hard to reverse -- such as reforms passed via legislation -- and
that can be fully implemented during the mandate of an elected administration. Second,
project design and implementation arrangements must be flexible enough to achieve targeted
reform objectives. Finally, to ensure comnmitment in implementation, there should be strong
ownership of the program components. The proposed loan has been designed taking into
account these lessons.
83. Argentina's record in satisfying the conditions of reform loans has been excellent since
the implementation of the Convertibility Plan in 1991. The Bank has extended USS6.6
billion in 15 such operations since 1991 (not including a freestanding FY93 Debt and Debt
Service Reduction Loan, Ln. 3556-AR), as well as US$74.5 million in four complementary
technical assistance projects. These operations have met all major objectives in a timely
manner. As regards reform operations with the provinces, the recently completed Provincial
Reform Loan, Provincial Bank Privatization Loan, and Provincial Pension Reform Loan
have all been rated as satisfactory or above by OED.
84. Specific lessons learned from the pilot PRL II have been noted above (para. 26), and
have been incorporated into the C6rdoba loan design in order to reduce risks and to enhance
implementation, as follows:
- Major fiscal reform vs. social sector reforms: Up front actions have already been
implemented by the Provincial Government in late 1999 to put it on a healthy fiscal
trajectory. With the support of the federal program, no further major cuts would be required
during the implementation of the social sector reforms.
- Municipal Governments: This level of government was included. A program of technical
assistance would be initiated by the Province to assist municipalities in improving their
institutional capacity with a view toward facilitating future reforms.
- Timing: Program implementation has begun during the first year of the Provincial
Administration and not in the middle of the second year as in the case of PRLII.
- Ownership: In line with the election campaign proposals of the Administration, key
legislation required for the program, including that involving privatization and state
36



modernization, were presented, widely discussed within the Province, and approved by the
legislature.
- Coordination: The Provincial cabinet, led by the Governor, is strongly reformist and has
been closely involved in program preparation. Considerable efforts have been made to work
closely with federal authorities, the IDB, and other Bank operations.
- Institution Building: Several components in the reform program, funded by Provincial
resources, existing Bank loans, or a new IDB operation, specifically target institution
capacity building government-wide or in specific agencies. Complementary accountability
and transparency mechanisms are also being implemented.
- Participation: The reform program in C6rdoba is comprehensive and ambitious and can
only succeed if understood and supported by a majority of citizens.  As such the
Governrment has placed a high priority on building democratic consensus. The Governor's
successful election platform explicitly focused on the themes of change and the proposed
reforms. The enabling legislation was explained to stakeholders --unions, industry groups,
NGOs, churches, trade associations-in numerous meetings which continue during reform
implementation. All of the reforms were extensively debated and reported upon by the press
in the Province, modified as necessary, and approved by both houses of the legislature with
the support of the opposition party. To confirm public support for the direction of the
reform, Bank staff also met with representatives of various interest groups (economic think
tanks, trade associations, recipients of social services).
Role of the National Government
85. Staff from the Office of the Chief of Cabinet, Ministries of Economy, Education, and
Health, and the National Electricity Regulatory Agency participated in the preparatory work,
ensuring not only that the proposed policies were consistent with the national policies but
also that the Province can count on the support of the Federal Government during
implementation.
Collaboration with Other Operations And Technical Assistance Needs
86.  There are considerable synergies between the reform program and a number of
ongoing investment projects that operate in the Province. The proposed loan, by providing a
more stable fiscal context, will benefit ongoing IDB and Bank projects, by helping ensure
that enough counterpart funds are available. Conversely, the technical support and sectoral
policies being pursued under those operations will be available to support and guide the
reform program. In addition, there are direct links with the Bank and IDB-assisted social
projects: they are mutually reinforcing. The relatively weak institutional capacity of the
Province and the depth and complexity of the reform program call for sustained technical
assistance.
87. In education, the action program supported by the proposed project is in line with the
reform policy implemented by the national government. The technical assistance necessary
to support various actions will be financed by the institutional strengthening component of
the IDB-financed PRISE program. PRODYMES I, through its national component, provides
37



technical support to the Province to improve the management of the education sector. This
will help the Province to implement the technical studies need to: (i) adopt a new formula-
based for private schools subsidies; (ii) class consolidation; and (iii) design and follow up
pilot cases of decentralization of secondary education.
88. In health, the CPRL complements other ongoing Bank loans, namely SSAL, PROMIN,
and PRESSAL. First, while the SSAL protects high priority federal social expenditures,
CPRL will ensure that the overall level of provincial health expenditures is not reduced
during fiscal reform and that the maternal-child care programs of PROMIN receive priority
attention. Second, the CPRL applies the concept of self-managed hospitals to an additional
province, a key objective of PRESSAL and, more irnportantly, advances the aforementioned
idea of tying its implementation to a broader health finance reform agenda, without which
the efficiency gains from self-managed hospitals would be limited. In this regard, PRESSAL
and CPRL teams have been working closely together. Third, while the recently completed
Health Insurance Reform Loan addressed efficiency and equity issues pertaining to national
social funds, the CPRL deals with similar issues confronting the Provincial Health Fund,
helping C6rdoba develop a public health insurance fund (within current budgetary
constraints) to finance coverage of the currently uninsured (mostly the poor). In short, the
proposed loan integrates various elements of Bank-supported health reform initiatives to
modernize Argentina's health sector, improve its efficiency, and protect the poor.
89. Similar synergy exists between ongoing federal projects and the Social Protection
component. This is most evident in the area of analysis, monitoring and evaluation, under
the Social Protection IV project (SIEMPRO component), and the advanced realized under
the SSAL to protect social programs and improvement management.  There is also
complementarily between the approach being taken at the provincial level to develop a
single registry of beneficiaries and the reforms being supported in other provinces as well as
nationally. The crossing of databases to detect fraud and misallocation of resources, as well
as tax evasion, is another area in which what is being done federally, under SYNTIS can be
replicated at the provincial level. Other needs to finance equipment, studies on labor
conversion, and assistance with fiscal policy will be financed by the on-going PDPII,
managed by the Ministry of Interior, or a possible new IDB operation.
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
90. The Bank has worked closely with the IMF in the design and supervision of reform
operations in Argentina, in formulating country strategy, and in economic and sector work.
The IMF shares our concern regarding the need to help improve the provincial fiscal
situation and has provided TA on tax administration to the Province. Bank staff have sought
to ensure the compatibility of this loan with the current program with the IMF. The IDB,
which co-financed the SSAL, has collaborated closely with the Bank on provincial reforms
and co-financed the recently completed First Provincial Development Project and
Provincial Bank Privatization Loan. It has its own program to support reforms in the
Provinces of Buenos Aires and Mendoza and the City of Buenos Aires. The IDB is also
preparing a investment project for C6rdoba including technical assistance which will help
the Province meet several of the reform targets contained in the CPRL. There has been
direct collaboration between the two banks and jointly with the Provincial authorities in the
preparation of both operations.
38



Loan Description
91. The proposed Loan would support the Province of C6rdoba in implementing a public
sector reform program with a series of fiscal, administrative and social measures. The
Federal Government would on-lend to the Province the counterpart funds equivalent to the
loan amount of $303 million. The Loan would be disbursed to the central government, with
immediate transfer of the local counterpart funds to the Province.
Borrower and Loan Amount
92. The Borrower of the loan would be the Argentine Republic. The Beneficiary will be
the Province of C6rdoba. The amount, US$303 million, was determined as a function of
financing needs and depth of the reform prograin, taking into account the population of the
Province. Disbursements for the loan would be conditioned on Board approval and
effectiveness, and subsequent positive evaluations of the compliance of the Province to loan
conditionality. The attached Policy Matrix (see Annex B) contains the performance criteria
agreed during appraisal on how to evaluate compliance with the conditionality. While the
tranche-release actions will be limited to key measures, the full program of the Province is
detailed in the Letter of Provincial Reform (LPR).
Tranche Disbursement
93. The loan would disburse in three tranches. The first tranche disbursement of US$103
million, including the front-end fee, would be released after loan effectiveness since actions
required for disbursement will have been implemented prior to Board presentation. A
"floating" tranche disbursement of US$100 million would be released after the privatization
of BPC and concessioning of EPEC, which are expected to occur in the first half of 2001. A
third tranche of US$100 million is expected to be released at the end of the first quarter of
CY 2002, depending on the pace of reform.
Letter of Provincial Reform
94. The attached Letter of Provincial Reform (Annex A) indicates the importance of the
loan for the Province and its commitment to take the necessary measures, including
proposing legislation. The LPR also indicates the Province's intentions regarding: (i)
privatization of BPC and the recovery of its residual assets; (ii) tax administration
improvements and adjustments in tax rates; (iii) overall fiscal outcomes; (iv)
concessioning/sale of the electricity company; and (v) and commitment to reform of the
public employee pension system. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the
content of the LPR as well as the public expenditure program and quantified conditionality.
Conditions of Tranche Release
95.  Successful implementation will be assessed by reference to agreed performance
benchmarks as reflected in the Policy Matrix (Annex B).
39



Program Implementation
96.   Staff reporting directly to the Governor will coordinate implementation of the
program. The Project Director in C6rdoba, responsible for both the Bank and IDB
operations, will focus on the continuous monitoring of progress in the reform program, the
evaluation of compliance with performance benchmarks prior to tranche disbursements, and
quarterly monitoring reports. Implementation itself would be undertaken by the various
Provincial ministries and agencies involved. At the national level, the Ministry of Economy
will undertake regular supervision of the fiscal and debt components. The Ministry of
Interior will provide the coordination with ongoing projects. The Closing Date would be
March 31, 2003.
Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing
97.  Loan disbursements would be made under simplified SAL/SECAL disbursements.
Under the revised procedures, SAL/SECAL proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory
implementation of the program, including compliance with stipulated tranche release
conditions. Disbursements will not be linked to any specific purchases; hence evidence will
not be needed to support disbursements. However, there will be a standard adjustment loan
prohibition on using proceeds to cover expenditures incurred in the borrower's currency;
hence loan proceeds can be kept as country foreign reserves or be used for imports (other
than for standard excluded expenditures). Tranche release review and program supervision
will ensure that programs supported by these loans are carried out as agreed.
98.  Once the Loan becomes effective, the Borrower will open and maintain a
corresponding deposit account in dollars in the Central Bank. When the Bank is satisfied
that the Province has fulfilled the conditions for tranche release, it will inform the National
Ministry of Economy. As funds for the tranche are released, the Borrower (Ministry of
Economy) will submit a simplified withdrawal application against which the Bank will
disburse the corresponding loan proceeds into the Deposit account for the Borrower's use.
As soon as the funds are deposited into the Borrower's account there will be automatic
transfer by the Borrower to the Province of local counterpart funds in amounts equivalent to
the disbursed loan proceeds.
99. Prior to the tranche release, and after the Bank has reviewed compliance of the
Province, the Borrower will submit to the Bank a report on the Provincial compliance with
the release conditions. Bank staff will confirm all Provincial conditionality compliance
actions before tranche release. The Province will also submit to the Bank, every three
months, a brief report on the implementation of the program, updated fiscal accounts, and
revised projections for the remaining of the period. Independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank may audit the Deposit Account, if the Bank so requests. Copies of these audits will be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the date of the Bank's request for such
audits.
Environmental Concerns
100.  The Provincial reform program is not expected to have adverse environmental
impacts and has been classified in the "C" environmental impact category. Nevertheless, the
Provincial authorities have collaborated with the national electricity regulatory agency and
40



the Bank to ensure that federal environmental standards applicable to the infrastructure
destined for privatization have in fact been applied. The C6rdoban authorities have further
indicated that environmental audits will be completed prior to any sale or concession of such
infrastructure and that the purchaser(s) will need to commit contractually to prepare a time-
bound environmental impact remediation plan as warranted.
Benefits And Risks
101. Benefits and Social Impacts. The main benefits of the loan would be a strengthened
and more sustainable fiscal position, a more responsive public sector, and improvements in
key social sector services. The resulting improvements in the Province's human capital,
long term financial prospects, and ability to meet citizen needs will promote private led
investment and growth. Less tangible but real public benefits will accrue from greater
equity in the incidence of tax payments, increased transparency in government operations,
and visible improvements in the quality and efficiency of government services. The social
impact of this reform effort would be positive through an increased government capacity to
identify and fund, and better organize responses to, specific poverty and social sector
challenges. Improved management of hospitals and schools will directly impact citizens,
and provide a more stable working environment for dedicated employees as well.
102.  More broadly, if successful, the program could contribute to a shift in public
attitudes, restoring confidence in public institutions, strengthening social capital and creating
new opportunities for voice, especially on the part of the poor and for civil society in
general. The core of the reform program reflects an attempt to modify the rules of the game
in Cordoba-to change the relation of citizens to government. These include programs for
increased access to government information, greater efficiency and speed in responding to
citizen requests, equal enforcement of rules, increased access to social programs based on
need, not party affiliation or clientele-based associations, and impartial enforcement of tax
laws.  Broad-based anti-corruption initiatives and the inclusion of opposition party
representatives on public sector boards and regulatory agencies should add support for
public actions. Working with Bank staff, the authorities have tried to promote transparency
in the privatization process, among other areas of reform.
103.  The careful efforts taken by the authorities to effect the reforms with minimal
negative impact on employees are notable. The incorporation of private sector funds, new
technology, and dynamism into the electricity, banking, and lottery sectors should offer, in
addition to more efficiency in those important sectors, new opportunities to those employees
who choose not to remain in the public sector or to take advantage of retirement or
severance packages. Yet, negative consequences of the reform could be felt by tax evaders
subject to better revenue enforcement and special interests benefiting from a various sources
of taxpayer funds including inappropriate credit extension by the provincial bank, non-
transparent procurement processes, or unjustified compensation.
104. Risks. The proposed operations involves three major risks. First, the Government's
stated intention to reduce provincial tax rates, if applied without waiting for improvements
in tax collections or due regard to overall macroeconomic developments, could undermine
the primary goal of reestablishing fiscal balance. However, the authorities have indicated in
word and action that the phased reduction in tax rates will be maintained only on the basis of
41



actual revenue collection improvements. Moreover, they have embarked on a serious
reform of tax administration with technical support from international experts and high level
political commitment. A careful review of the fiscal situation by the Bank confirms that the
fiscal risks to this program are manageable, and that the actions supported by the operation
will reduce them further. Second, political commitment to this ambitious program could
waiver, especially should the Government lose its functioning majority in the legislature, or
seek to retreat from reform efforts in the face of opposition. Several factors mitigate these
risks. The Government was elected on an explicit reform agenda, will hold office until 2003
giving it sufficient time to launch and refine its program (and meet targets under all
tranches), and has aspirations to serve as a model for other Argentine provinces if not the
national government itself Moreover, the governing party in the Province counts on strong
labor union support and the Governor spends considerable time and effort working with
public employee representatives to explain and modify the implementation of his program as
appropriate. Third, the privatization efforts so critical to reduce both debt and threats to
fiscal performance are subject to market considerations and the net amounts anticipated to
be received may not be realized or received at the time contemplated. Fortunately the
Government has appointed high quality privatization teams to oversee the process (and
render reasonable estimates of financial prospects from privatization), is using Bank
procurement guidelines and technical input to promote credibility and transparency. The
considerable experience in Argentina with privatization, efforts to explain the process and
need for privatization to citizens and employees, and protection offered to staff of the
relevant state enterprises will also help this process. Due attention is also being paid to
environment and social impact considerations in the privatizations.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
105. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and recommend that executive directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Attachments:
Washington D.C.
October 23, 2000
42



Annex A
Province of C6rdoba
Letter of Provincial Reform
(translation)
C6rdoba, October 18, 2000
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.         This letter describes the main aspects of the politicaL economic, and social situation
in the province of C6rdoba when I took office as Governor on July 12, 1999, and the actions that
the Province has initiated in the areas of public finance, public administration, and social sector
reform to address these challenges. We are requesting technical and financial assistance from the
World Bank to help us in our efforts. It is the intention of my government to undertake the
reforms necessary to lay the basis for sustained growth, to improve social services in order to
attack poverty, to forge a new relationship between citizens and their government, and to enhance
the capacity of the province of C6rdoba to compete internationally.
The Challenges
2.,         C6rdoba is located in Argentina's central region. It covers an area of 165,321
square kilometers, or 5.9 percent of the national territory. The Province is divided into 26
departments and 426 municipalities and communes, with a total population of approximately 3
million, or 8.3 percent of the population of Argentina. Eighty percent of the population is urban.
In terms of output, C6rdoba is the third largest province and, along with Buenos Aires, Santa Fe,
Mendoza, and the City of Buenos Aires, ranks as one of Argentina's relatively more developed
areas. Exports total US$2,700 a year--a ratio of exports to GDP of 10.4 percent, which is higher
than the national ratio of 7.4 percent and the Province accounts for approximately 12.4 percent of
Argentina's exports. The Province generates 8.5 percent of national GDP and per capita GDP in
2000 is estimated to be US$ 8.000.
3.          Despite its advantages, C6rdoba has suffered from years of poor fiscal management.
In 1999 total revenue of the Province amounted to US$2,350 million, of which 43 percent came
from the Province's own sources (the result of provincial tax collection, non tax and capital
revenues) with the remainder reflecting transfers of funds under the federal tax revenue sharing
system. Budget outlays for the same year totaled US$2,485 million and comprised payroll (50
percent); constitutional transfers (21 percent: 13 percent for municipalities, 7 percent for
education, and 1 percent for social security); goods and services (8 percent), capital expenditure
(10 percent), and interest on the provincial debt (5 percent). The financial balance showed a deficit
of US$135 million. Due largely to poor fiscal performance in the past, the stock of debt
outstanding in 1999 had risen to US$1,346 million. The debt/revenue ratio increased by thirteen
percentage points between 1998 and 1999 alone, from 45 percent to 58 percent. While the
Province's debt/revenue ratio continued at the average level for Argentina as a whole (57.2
percent), it has represented a rapidly growing claim on fiscal resources and threat to financial
stability.



4.          Although C6rdoba is one of the more developed provinces in Argentina in social
indicators, the Province needs to modernize, enhance, and expand the provision of social services,
especially with regard to young women and, above all, children. The health system has seen a
marked increase in expenditure with no corresponding improvement in the quality of health
services. Access to sanitary and health services has become more difficult and inequitable. It is
estimated that approximately 38 percent of the population of C6rdoba are not regularly covered by
the social insurance system. Urban public hospitals are over-staffed, with doctors providing
primary health care although medical auxiliaries are qualified to do so, while rural hospitals lack
even the minimum staff.
5.          In education too C6rdoba scores well nationally, with an illiteracy rate of 3.2 percent
(compared to the national average of 3.8 percent), higher gross enrolment rates in primary and
secondary schools, and nominal wages for teachers above the national average. Nevertheless,
education is deficient. Academic performance in the Province, as measured by national texts, is
below national averages. There are inefficiencies in human resource management, reflected in
higher teacher absenteeism rates and high costs due to leaves of absence and the need for substitute
teachers. School buildings are poorly distributed, given that in rural areas there are a considerable
number of schools with very few pupils, whereas in urban areas existing infrastructure is
insufficient to cater adequately to even current levels of enrolment, and will not be able to absorb
the growth of enrolment in primary and secondary schools resulting from the extension of
compulsory education to 10 years. Since 1996, there have been increases in dropout and repeat
rates at primary and middle school levels.
6.           Nearly 23 percent of the population has unsatisfied basic needs. Poverty levels in
the capital region have been increasing since the beginning of the 1990s, when 10.8 percent of
households and 17.35 percent of the population were judged to be poor. By 1999, 26.5 percent of
households and 36.7 percent of the population were poor, with children being the hardest-hit as 57
percent of all children in the city of C6rdoba now live in poor households. The unemployment rate
was 12.5 percent at the end of 1998 and it has worsened since then, mainly affecting young people
in low and medium-income groups. Paradoxically, since this Government took office there has
been massive internal migration to C6rdoba from poorer provinces, with waves of people attracted
by the relatively better job opportunities and social services provided by C6rdoba, adding to the
challenges we face.
7.          There are several causes of this situation. Too often the Province has focused its
efforts and limited resources on areas best left to the energies and technology of the private sector,
to the detriment of pressing problems of human capital development where it should play a more
active role; it has sometimes seen citizens as only sources of revenue rather than as clients or
indeed owners of the government deserving the most efficient, effective and transparent services
possible; and it has under performed in managing its own human and financial resources. As a
result C6rdoba lags behind other provinces (both in Argentina and abroad) in terms of structural
reforms of the State. Clearly there is a need to incorporate private investment in the Banco de la
Provincia, the provincial electric power company (Empresa Provincial de Energia de C6rdoba),
and the tourism sector. The pension and retirement fumd (Caja de Jubilaciones, Pensiones, y
Retiros de C6rdoba) must be incorporated into the federal system. But these reforms, already
enacted in other provinces, have been avoided here.



8.         Diagnostic assessments of C6rdoba conducted last year by international
organizations (the World Bank, IDB, and IMF) and by the private sector underscore the limnited
institutional capacity of some government agencies to provide efficiently and effectively the
services required by society. There are problems where our human resources are located, how
they are distributed within government, and whether they are trained and evaluated-in short we
have not had a modem human resource policy (or supportive infornation systems) designed to
encourage the best performance from our staff. The lack of a modem financial management
system and the absence of an efficient procurement system are obstacles to achieving better control
and efficiency in public spending. Moreover, legal procedures are too cumbersome for today's
circumstances. These shortcomings in terms of human and technical resources increase the
inefficiency of administrative processes, generate additional red tape, and prolong processing times.
The lack of infornation and management systems and the provincial administration's lack of
familiarity with planning procedures combine to create a bureaucratic and over-cautious model of
public administration at odds with modem systems which are more goal and performance-oriented.
These inadequacies feed back upon themselves as the Province has suffered from an alarmingly
high rate of tax evasion. For gross income tax alone, evasion is estinated to be over 40 percent.
Needless to say, the performance of social sector ministries in education, health, and social
protection lag far behind the needs of citizens in terms of policy innovation, implementation, and
results.
The Principles of C6rdoba's Reform
9.          We are undertaking a program of fundamental reform in C6rdoba. The program
seeks to restore a sound financial foundation for the province in order to promote savings,
investment, and growth; it airns to concentrate the efforts of the state in those areas of its
comparative advantage, especially the improvement of human capital through better social sector
programs and support for the poor; it changes the paradigm of the state's role in C6rdoba through
a new social contract providing better services and a commitment to a reduced tax burden in
exchange for broader citizen participation in government and discipline in meeting civic
responsibilities; and strengthens the capacity of government as an organization through specific
reforms in financial management, tax administration, human resource management, and systems of
control and transparency. Moreover we are seeking to expand the inclusion of citizen groups,
opposition parties, and average citizens in the supervision of government operations and
participation in decision making.
10.        Our core principle is that civil service, at its most basic definition, means
administering public resources with maximum honesty, transparency, and efficiency. It implies
clearly stating the challenges facing the province and putting forward a proposals for collective
action to overcome them. Without such a guiding principle shared by all stakeholders, it would be
impossible to balance public accounts, enhance fiscal performance, increase our exports, attract
capital interested in establishing new industries, generate employment, diminish the foreign debt
burden, and participate in the globalization process on equal terms with respect to other emerging
economies. We have therefore sought to design and secure consensus on a reform program that,
in addition to exercising strict control over government accounts, addresses strategic matters
including the level of taxation, streamlining the public sector, and the functioning of markets.



The Components of C6rdoba's Reform
11.        Our overarching policy objective is to cut the cost of doing business in Cordoba as a
means to boost production in the province, attract investment, and increase employment. We will
achieve this through comprehensive, integrated, and self-reinforcing reforms in public finance,
public administration, and social sector operations.
12.        Public Finances. We are committed to reestablishing a sound system of public
finances, and I would highlight four themes. First, we are committed to controlling government
spending with the aim to increase public savings (in order to fund long delayed capital spending)
while at the same time moving to eliminate our overall deficit by FY2003. These targets are
ambitious (as indicated in the attachment), but demonstrate our comrmitment to sound budget
policy. Our program of fiscal reform will contribute directly to the achievement of the federal
Government's macroeconomic targets. We also intend, within the context of broader discussions
with the federal government, to reach agreement on a reform of the province's public employee
pension system so as to ensure its long term financial sustainability. Second, we have set in motion
a process of lowering provincial taxes by 30 percent, while simultaneously granting an extensive
tax arnnesty and initiating a major strengthening of tax administration. As a result tax collection
has increased.  Each of these efforts involve significant reformns: lower tax rates reflect a
commitment of the state to citizens and investor alike to a new role for government; the tax
amnesty is the last to be applied and we have submitted legislation to prevent future tax amnesties
(17 were in existence when we took office) so as to restore credibility to tax laws; and a vigorous
strengthening of tax enforcement through training, technology, and political commitment is leading
to an expansion in the tax base and improved compliance. Many tax delinquents have decided to
return to being citizens committed to honoring their tax obligations and took advantage of this final
opportunity for amnesty. At the same time, those who have fulfilled their obligations as taxpayers
have benefited from a reduction in future taxes. We in effect signed a new social contract based on
mutual trust, with the authorities lowering taxes and citizens paying them on time. We will
continue our program of tax reduction as permitted by continued improvements in tax collection
and adherence to fiscal targets.
13.        Third, we want a streamlined government that is an ally and promoter of productive
activity, rather than a burden. To that end, we obtained landmark legislation allowing the
participation of private capital in the Banco de la Provincia de C6rdoba (BPC), the provincial
electric power company (EPEC), and tourism, through gaming licenses. The Government is
committed to the rapid and irreversible privatization of both EPEC and BPC. The privatization of
BPC will strengthen the financial sector in general, elininate a source of fiscal drain, and maintain
the flow of banking services in rural areas. The province will also make a vigorous effort to rapidly
recover assets from BPC's portfolio as necessary. We expect that private investment in EPEC,
through concession contracts for services, will be accompanied by noticeable drops in electricity
rates for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), a measure that will benefit all agricultural
and livestock enterprises in the province, and in household electricity rates, which will benefit all
users. Environmental audits will be completed on all plants to be sold and remedial measures as
necessary required from the buyers. We will also follow procurement guidelines and technical
advice of the World Bank so as to ensure transparent privatization processes of benefit to all
citizens for BPC, EPEC, and the lotteries. Furthermore, we will adhere to a policy even tougher
than applied at the national level in that income generated by privatization may not be applied to



current expenditure, but rather used to amortize public debt, carry out infrastructure works in the
province, and to provide seed money to a 100 million pesos small and medium size enterprise
development fund. Fourth, we have undertaken a major program to strengthen the finances of
municipal governments. In return for the province assuming many of their debts, these local
governments are entering into programs of reform affecting their tax collection, cadaster registers,
and financial administration. In this manner we hope to close a potential source of disequilibrium
within C6rdoba.
14.         Public Administration. In tandem with the redirection of the state, we are seeking
to strengthen its capacity to deliver services in an efficient, effective, and transparent manner. Our
aim is to make long overdue improvements in the management of the government as a business.
Initiatives include new human resource management information systems, improved training,
business process reengineering in key agencies, design and installation of a modern integrated
financial management system in line with international accounting standards, and in general an
increased focus on performance and results. Improvements in the prevention and prosecution of
corruption are a major goals which are being pursued through a wide variety of large and small
measures. Wc have created an Anti-corruption Office, established a more independent and
professional process for selecting judges, initiated practical reforms in procurement and financial
management, sought to bring the sunlight of greater public participation and information sharing
into government operations, directed that government staff wear name tags and respond to citizen
requests within limited timeframes, and are seeking to increase the scope for innovation within
approved guidelines of performance.
15.         Social Sector Reform. A primary objective of all the foregoing reforms is to
provide the fiscal space and institutional capacity to significantly improve, on a sustainable basis,
human capital development in C6rdoba. As such, we are undertaking an ambitious series of policy
and procedural reforms in education, health, and social protection with the aim of better targeting
scarce resources and encouraging more modem methods of service delivery. The success of these
reforms is critical to all our objectives of growth and a better society.
16.         The ongoing education reforms are quite ambitious and involve fundamental
changes to: (i) strengthen quality and relevance in education; (ii) promote equal access; and
(iii) improve cost-efficiency in resource allocation. Cordoba is participating in two education
reform projects financed by the World Bank and the IDB, and is preparing for far-reaching
changes in teacher and staff deployment, performance monitoring, and training.  The
provincial education ministry is implementing a staff and teacher electronic monitoring system
in all public and private establishments, which will promote better control and significant cost-
savings. In turn, the use of substitute teachers, which is now about 20 percent of the
recurrent salary budget, will be reduced notably by the end of the coming school year. All
teacher training institutes will be accredited on the basis of transparent and verifiable
performance indicators, for which guidelines have already been developed, and those teacher
training institutions which do not receive accreditation will have their public subsidies phased
out. Moreover, as private schools constitute about 30 percent of the total system, minimum
performance guidelines have been developed and will be in effect the coming school year
linking public subsidies to school performance. The education authorities are also in the
process of developing a socio-economic student monitoring system, which will be applied in
at least 400 public and private schools next year. This will improve targeting of the poorest



students and improve equity. Measures also are being prepared to significantly reduce the
repetition and drop-out rates in prirnary and secondary schools, which will mostly benefit the
poorest students. Gradual decentralization of education services to the school and district
level are underway and will result in schools having their own budgets for learning materials
and other small expenses in the coming school year. This requires fundamental administrative
change, which will be completed during the 2002 school year. Over the past years the
provincial education authorities have engaged in a participatory and far-reaching reform effort
of prinary and secondary levels.  A  structural curriculum  change has already been
implemented, and this year the first graduates from the new upper-secondary schools will be
produced, which makes Cordoba the first province in Argentina to fully implement the federal
education reform law.
17.        The health program similarly wiDl initiate fundarnental changes in the provision of
health care to the poor, health insurance, management of public hospitals, and the role and
operation of the Ministry of Health. The provincial medical care institute (I.P.A.M.) has already
been revamped. Using a capitated system, it has set up medical networks that will enhance health
care coverage for over half a million inhabitants of C6rdoba, while at the same time achieving
considerable savings by eliminating distortions and inequities and subjecting the system to
management audits designed to safeguard quality of service. The Ministry of Health will
implement a pilot scheme in the west (Area Oeste) of the Province to identify and evaluate the
cost, impact and strategy of switching from supply-side to insurance-based subsidies for the poor.
The Ministry will also reform public hospitals by developing decentralized institutional, managerial
and cost-recovery capacity as well as implementing transparent budget processes based on demand
parameters rather than incremental adjustments to past budget. The Government will also seek to
equip hospitals with sophisticated informnation and financial management systems to be able to bill
multiple insurers for their services. Efforts will be made to prevent hospitals from discrininating
against patients based on type or level of insurance coverage.
18.        We are also initiating strong efforts to strengthen programs providing social
protection to the poor and most vulnerable groups, and we are asking for your support in this
effort by including a specific Social Protection component-the first of its kind in provincial
loans. Reforms in the Ministries of Solidarity and Labor, evaluations of specific programs, as
well as special efforts to ensure a smooth and adequate flow of budgetary funds to these
programs are key aspects of the reform program. They are complemented by the First Step
Program, which benefits 12,500 young people, and the Return to Work Program directed at 5000
unemployed, male and female heads of household, aged between 45 and 65. We recognize that
sustained improvements in social sector programs and ministries will take years of political
commitment, hard work, and consensus building-all the more reason to use the opportunity
afforded by of our reform program and the assistance provided by the international community to
launch this process.
Implementation and Monitoring
19.        The proposed loan from the World Bank will assist the province of C6rdoba in
implementing the public sector reform program through a series of fiscal, administrative, and social
measures. The Bank will also provide critical technical support for the privatization of Banco de la
Provincia de C6rdoba, and the EPEC and Loteria de C6rdoba franchises. An IDB loan will fund



the various subprojects for a comprehensive reform of the State prograrn, designed to support
implementation of the different laws that have been enacted and hence the adoption of a new
public administration model. Implementation of this program would be coordinated by a unit
reporting directly to me. The Coordinator will see to it that progress with the reform
program is monitored continuously, with the full support of all ministries and agencies of the
Provincial Government. More broadly, let me underscore the fact that our reform program,
presented to and ratified by the voters of C6rdoba during the last election, and confirmed
through the approval of several critical pieces of legislation by the Provincial Congress,
reflects the expressed will of the people of this province. We have made every effort to
discuss and explain this reform package, to ensure that the rights of workers and citizens are
recognized and protected, and that issues relating to protection of the environment are fully
considered. This new more open process will continue.
20.         Mr. Wolfensohn, perhaps we are over-ambitious and enthusiastic about the
prospects for our province. However, recent investments in C6rdoba by such enterprises as
Motorola, Volkswagen, Renault, and Sancor are an indication of such a bright future. We now
have an opportunity to extend that promise more broadly to all citizens in C6rdoba, to ensure that
we continue to attract domestic and foreign investors, and that our politics are focused more on
strategic issues and improvements in services to our citizens rather than the disruptions caused by
fiscal crises or frustrations with unresponsive government. A daunting task, but fortunately we can
all count on the imagination, freedom, private initiative, and entrepreneurial drive of the inhabitants
of Cordoba.
Sincerely,
/s/
Dr. Jose Manuel de la Sota
Governor of the Province of C6rdoba



Annex A
Province of C6rdoba
Annex
Fiscal Indicators
Millions of Pesos
Calendar Year                     1999    2000    2001      2002    2003
Current revenues                  2,325.1  2,416.1  2,522.6  2,602.4  2,619.8
Current expenditures              2,227.8  2.267.7  2,308.1  2,331.0  2,346.9
Current surplus                     97.3    148.4   214.5    271.4   272.9
Capital receipts (excl. borrowing)  25.2    26.0   426.0    26.0    26.3
Capital expenditures*              258.0   298.4   336.5   356.4   299.1
Net receipts from privatization                      400.0
Overall balance                   -135.5  -124.0   -96.0   -59.0         0.0
Stock of debt**                   1,346.1  1,395.1  1,260.0  1,126.1  1,215.0
Indicators (percent current revenues)
Overall deficit                    -5.8%    -5.1%    -3.8%    -2.3%    0.0%
Current surplus                    4.1%     6. 1%1   8.5%1  10.4%    10.4
Stock of debt                     57.9%    57.7%1  49.9%    43.3%    46.4%
* excluding amortization ** including accounts payable



Annex B
Provincial Reform Loan
CORDOBA - Policy Matrix
I. PUBLIC FINANCE
Activity         Board Presentation Conditions                        Floatine Tranche                                     Third Tranche
Macroeconomic  Maintain supportive macroeconomic framework in         Maintain supportive macroeconomic framework in       Maintain supportive macroeconomic framework in
Performance      Argentina.                                           Argentina.                                           Argentina.
Fiscal           The Province has agreed to a resources and expenditures   Current account surplus during preceding 12 months  Current account surplus during preceding 12 months
Performance      program satisfactory to the Bank:                    equal to at least 6% of revenues if tranche release date    equal to at least 7% of revenues if tranche release occurs
falls during or before first semester of 2001. If release    during second semester of 2001. If release date occurs
date occurs during second semester of 2001, target is  during first semester of 2002 target is 8%; and if after
*   Cumulative current account surplus (October 1999-  7%; if during first semester of 2002, 8%; and if after that  that date, 9%.
June 2000) equal to at least 3.5% percent of    date, 9%.
revenues.
Cumulative overall deficit (October 1999-June   Overall deficit during preceding 12 months no greater    Overall deficit during preceding 12 months no greater
2000) no greater than 6% of revenues           than $124 million if tranche release date falls during or   than $110 million if tranche release date falls during
*   Ratio of contractual debt plus accounts payable to    before first semester of 2001. If release date occurs  second semester of 2001. If release date occurs during
during second semester of 2001, target is $110 million;   first semester of 2002 target is $96 million; and if after
current revenue no greater than 0.65: 1         if during first semester of 2002, $96 million; and if after  that date, $78 million.
that date, $78 million.
Ratio of contractual debt plus accounts payable to   Ratio of contractual debt plus accounts payable to
current revenue in preceding twelve months no greater    current revenue in preceding twelve months no greater
than 0.7:1                                          than 0.7:1
Tax              Strategic master plan prepared on tax administration                                                      Annual collection of provincial taxes 2 percent higher
Administration   reform.                                                                                                   than 1999.
Human rcsources and training plan prepared for tax
department.
Annual audit plan for 2001 designed, including at least                                                  Audit plan for 2001 implemented.
1000 integrated audits (fiscalizaciones integrales) and
9000 audits of the provincial sales tax (ingresos brutos)
System operational for reconciling property tax                                                          System operational and in use for reconciling all
payments with amounts declared by taxpayers.                                                             provincial taxes declared and paid with the amounts
deposited by banks in the province's tax accounts.
Terms of reference presented for system reconciling
taxes paid with the amounts deposited by banks in the                                                    Single taxpayer identification system (the CUIT)
province's account.                                                                                      operational and in use for all provincial taxpayers and
taxes.
Agreement signed establishing full coordination
between the Cadaster and the Property Registry Office,                                                   Single taxpayer identification system (the CUIT)
particularly with regard to systems for identifying                                                      operational and in use for identif-ying property owners.
property and ownership.



Activity          Board Presentation Conditions                          FloatingThird Tranche
New unit established in the Cadaster responsible for                                                          Thefolio real system operational and in use for
updating cadastral information for new buildinigs and                                                         identifying at least 66 percent of all properties in the
additions.                                                                                                    Property Registry based on their location.
Terms of reference presented for designing system for                                                         System operational and in use for monitoring large
monitoring large taxpayers' filing and payment                                                                taxpayers' filings and payment obligations for provincial
obligations.                                                                                                 taxes.
Legislation prohibiting further provincial tax amnesties                                                      No provincial tax amnesty except to accommodate, if
submitted to Congress.                                                                                        needed, the impact of any federal tax amnesty declared
during said period.
Municipal         Preparation of action plans for fiscal reform for at least                                                    Satisfactory implementation (including signed contracts
Finances          25 representative municipalities (large, medium, and                                                          and initiation of work) of fiscal reform action plans for
small).                                                                                                       at least 20 representative municipalities (large, medium,
and small).
Preparation of action plans for modemization of                                                               Satisfactory implementation (including signed contracts
cadasters for at least 25 representative municipalities                                                       and initiation of work) of cadaster modernization action
(large, medium, and small).                                                                                   plans for at least 20 representative municipalities (large,
medium, and small).
Provincial        BPC privatization law and implementing regulations     BPC brought to point of sale, and residual assets to the
Bank of           published.                                             point of privatization.
C6rdoba (BPC)
BPC privatization Manager/Team appointed.              Provincial budget allocates adcquate resources to cover
any remaining liabilities of BPC.
Strategy for BPC privatization and residual assets
adopted.
Electricity       Law on private sector participation in EPEC published.   EPEC brought to point of sale or concessioning.
Company
(EPEC)            EPEC concessioning Manager/Team appointed.             Public utility regulatory agency established, including
appointment of Directors and staff and provision of
EPEC concessioning advisors contracted.                adequate resources for appropriate training, institutional
strengthening and operations.
Implementing regulations in prepartion for Laws 8835,
8836 and 8837 specifying the regulatory framework of    Nomis issued on: (i) price and standards for the
the electricity sector, including (i) creation of a    operation of the distribution companies; (ii) the price
competitive market structure, including limitations on  and fees of the transmission company; and (iii) universal
vertical and horizontal cross-ownership as may be      service obligations and subsidies in the electricity sector,
needed to prescrve the principles of competitiveness in    including principles for allocation of resources frotn the
the sector; (ii) principles of independence for the    Tariff Compensation Fund.
regulatory agency, especially in tariff setting; and (iii)
issuance of a "texto ordenado" clarifying status of
earlier Law 8599 on the Marco Regulatorio issued May
30, 1997.
2



IT. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Activity         Board Presentation Conditions                     Floating Tranche                                   Third Tranche
Civil Service    Strategy paper on civil service reform prepared.                                                     Satisfactory progress in implementing managerial and
staff training program (including signed contracts and
Decree issued regulating the reduction of personnel                                                  initiation of work).
authorized by Law 8836.
Terms of reference for census of public employees                                                    Census of public employees completed.
agreed.
Hiring of new public employees (exempting any transfer                                               Hiring of new public employees (after transfer of staff
of staff from BPC, EPEC, Lottery, or replacement of                                                  from BPC, EPEC, Lottery, or replacement of classroom
classroom teachers) limited to 25% of new vacancies.                                                 teachers) limited to 25% of new vacancies.
Terms of reference for review of public sector                                                       Review of public sector employment policies and job
employment policies and classification of jobs agreed.                                               classification exercise completed.
Action plans for modemization of the ministries of
Solidarity and Production) adopted (at least 6 months
prior to tranche release) and satisfactory progress
achieved in their implementation.
Satisfactory progress in the modemization of the
Ministry of Finance, including use of a new budget
formulation module for preparation of the FY2002
provincial budget.
Transparency    Action plan agreed for the review of provincial                                                       Legislation submitted and/or decrees issued as
procurement system.                                                                                  appropriate in line with procurement review to improve
provincial procurement procedures, and strengthen
supervision of contract execution.
Initiate activities with public and private stakeholders to
strengthen public sector transparency and accountability,                                            Action plan to combat public sector corruption prepared
including agreeing to exchange information among                                                     and announced (at least 6 months prior to tranche
public sector organizations and creating an Anti-                                                    release) and satisfactory progress achieved in its
corruption IJnit.                                                                                    implementation.
Financial        Technical group for financial management reform                                                       Satisfactory progress in the modemization of the
Management       established in Finance Ministry.                                                                     Ministry of Finance, including use of a new budget
formulation module for preparation of the FY2002
Conceptual framework model, including information                                                    provincial budget.(see Civil Service above)
technology model, and action plan for implementation
of financial management reform adopted.
3



111. SOCIAL SECTOR
Activity          Board Presentation Conditions                         Floating Tranche                                       Third Tranche
Health            Agreement to at least maintain health sector budget in                                                       Health sector budget, as approved, has at least
real terms over next two years.                                                                             maintained in real terms the amounts of FY2000, with at
Expenditures                                                                                                                   least 9% for public health programs and with no increase
Methodology agreed to identify provincial expenditure                                                       in the percentage devoted for salary and benefit
on primary health.                                                                                          expenditures.
Quantitative targets defined to increase the proportion of
health budget devoted to essential primary health
services.
Agreement that budget allocated for essential primary
health programs will not be less than 9 %.
Public Hospital   Improvine service aualitv and patients satisfaction                                                          Evidence from extemal evaluation that for the previous
Reform            Action plan presented for: (i) creation of Oficinas de                                                       four months for all 34 provincial hospitals: (i) at least
Atencion a los Usuarios in every public hospital; (ii)                                                       80%/o of complaints have been formally answered; (ii) at
mechanisms to ensure patients' informed agreement for                                                       least 80% of patients' agreements on high-risk
high-risk operations; (iii) provision of a copy of the                                                      operations have been recorded and filed; (iii) at least
clinical history summary for each in-patient service; and                                                   80% of clinical histories have been recorded and filed;
(v) strengthening personalized medical care.                                                                and (iv) at least 80% of all personnel in public hospitals
have been using identification cards
Initiation of this action plan for 3 provincial hospitals
within the capital and 3 provincial hospitals outside the
capital, which represent at least 25% of provincial
hospital production in terms of both ambulatory care and
in-patient visits.
Increasing cost-recovery
Presentation of action plan for: (i) identification of                                                      For the previous six months all patients are identified
insured patients; (ii) development of billing and                                                           and patients without insurance are registered in the data
accounting systems to charge for services rendered; (iii)                                                   base of the Ministry of Solidarity; and 100% of services
preventing discrimination against uninsured patients.                                                       to insured people are billed with at least 40% collected.
Initiation of this action plan in line with proposed                                                        At least two surveys or field studies have been
schedule (in 6 provincial hospitals).                                                                       conducted and published on the degree of discrimination
(if any) against uninsured patients in all 34 provincial
hospitals.
Strenrtfhening managerial capacity
Presentation of action plan to train at least 40                                                            A majority of management staff in each provincial
professionals in management of decentralized hospitals.                                                     hospital have completed management training programs;
retention and use by each hospital (for, for example,
Action plan prepared for using part of cost recovery                                                        merit- and productivity-based personnel management in
funds within the hospitals.                                                                                 each hospital) of at least 90% of the hcalth services cost
4



Activity         Board Presentation Conditions                      Floating Tranche                                    Third Tranche
amounts it recovers through patient/insurance company
Improved budget planning                                                                               invoicing.
Presentation of Terms of Reference for the development                                                 Study on budget planning has been completed and
of budget planning systems linked to demand for                                                        demand-based budget planning system for hospitals
services.                                                                                              approved based on the study recommendations.
Benchmark for public hospitals
Presentation of a action plan for the definition of the                                                Performance indicators, and initial benchmarks,
parameters of functioning of public hospitals.                                                         established for all provincial hospitals.
Benchmark parameters have been calculated (for 6
provincial hospitals).
Provincial       Ensuring financial viabilitv of IPAM
Social Security
Presentation of action plan to monitor the financial                                                   Publication of audited financial statements
viability of IPAM's new capitation-based health                                                        demonstrating that IPAM expenditures not exceeding its
delivery system.                                                                                       revenues.
Presentation of financial statements showing financial
viability of IPAM.
Reform of the Obra Social Provincial
Presentation of IPAM's reform framework.                                                              IPAM implementing a new health service delivery
system based on integrated primary, secondary, and
Health care quality control unit established.                                                          tertiary health care networks, with signed contracts with
providers covering all IPAM beneficiaries.
Ensuring adequate supplv of services
Presentation of Terms of Reference for the development                                                 External evaluation completed and published on: (i)
of a methodology to monitor rates and types of health                                                  patients' utilization rates of IPAM facilities; and (ii)
service utilization.                                                                                   cost/benefit impact of new health delivery networks.
Ensuring service iualitv
Presentation of action plan to create a health care quality                                            IPAM health care quality control unit has been regularly
control unit,                                                                                         issuing and making publicly available findings on
quality of IPAM health care delivery.
Ministry of      Regulating equipment purchases
Health
Decree 2323 on purchase control of health care                                                         New equipment purchase control system in use.
equipment re-drafted.
Controllinz guality of service provision
5



Activity         Board Presentation Conditions                         Floating Tranche                                     Third Tranche
Presentation of action plan for the development of an                                                     Central Office has prepared and made publicly available
Central Office to regulate and supervise the activities of                                                evaluations of Customer Service office operations in all
the Customer Service offices in public hospitals.                                                         hospitals; and user satisfaction surveys are carried out
regularly and being make publicly available for all
Central Office is established and controlling the                                                         provincial hospitals.
Customer service office in at least 6 provincial hospitals.
Presentation of methodology to evaluate users'                                                            An independent hospital accreditation system for both
satisfaction.                                                                                             public and private facilities is being implemented with
public access to updated information on operation, rules
and outcomes of the accreditation system.
Health           Action Plan presented for a pilot health insurance                                                         The pilot universal public health insurance scheme has
Insurance        scheme in West C6rdoba to include the identification of                                                    been operational for at least four months; the pilot
beneficiaries, benefits package, eligible providers,                                                      scheme has been evaluated; and action plan prepared to
financing system, provider payment system, beneficiary                                                    implement scheme throughout the province.
satisfaction services and auditing of health care
providers.
The Ministry of Health has consolidated information on
the cost of basic health package.
The Ministry of Solidarity has completed data base on
citizens without health insurance coverage in West
Cordoba.
Budget for pilot scheme finalized; adequate resources to
fnance pilot program allocated by the Ministry of
Finance; and Terms of Reference for extemal evaluation
of pilot scheme presented.
6



Activity         Board Presentation Conditions                      Floating Tranche                                   Third Tranche
Education        Operational guidelines produced for a computerized                                                    All personnel records of staff in private and public
comprehensive single personnel file (legajo unico                                                     primary, secondary, and teacher training institutes are
Management of  electronico) with one file for each teacher and staff                                                   recorded and maintained in a computerized
resources in the   member, and aggregate files per school and per district.                                            comprehensive single personnel file (legajo unico
education                                                                                                              electronico) with one file for each teacher and staff
sector                                                                                                                 member.
Baseline values for student/teacher ratios and average                                                Province has attained and maintained a students to
teacher absentee days produced per level of education,                                                teacher position ratio of no less than 24:1 for public
per gender, per District and per urban / rural area                                                   primary level schools Educacion General Basica); no
less than 15:1 for the secondary level (CicloBasico
Unifjcado); and no less than 28:1 per SECTION in
Urban areas for the (Ciclo de Especializacion) level in
public secondary schools in urban areas.
Province has attained teacher absentee days in primary
and secondary schools no more than 80% of the school
year 2000 average.
Agreement reached on new privatized system of medical                                                 Studies completed, according to terms of reference
monitoring of teachers and staff and that it will be                                                  acceptable to the Bank, on (i) the effectiveness of the
operational starting in school year 2001.                                                             privatized system of medical monitoring of public
primary and secondary school teacher and staff sick
leave with recommendations as appropriate for
improvements; and (ii) cost and financing of potential
medium-term public education sector reforms.
Education sector budget for 2001 proposes at least 5%                                                 Education sector budget for 2002, as approved, has
of total recurrent education budget to non-salary                                                     allocated (i) no less than 10% to capital expenditures;
spending; and capital expenditures of at least 5% of the                                              and (ii) no more than 92% of recurrent expenditures to
total sector budget.                                                                                  salary and benefits.
Quality and      Analytic report prepared with recommendations for                                                     Dissemination to all public and private primary and
equity          improved learning and monitoring of students based on                                                  secondary schools of the national school performance
results from the national school performance                                                          assessment for those schools including comparison with
assessment.                                                                                           international education performance indicators for
schools in OECD countries.
Conceptual design prepared of a socio-economic                                                        Student learning and student socio-economic monitoring
student monitoring system.                                                                            systems operating in at least 400 primary and secondary
schools.
Evaluation complete of the Social Plan for Education, of
the School Institutional Education projects under the
"Prodymes 11" project, and of the impact of the
provincial scholarship program to the poorest students.
7



Activity          Board Presentation Conditions                        Floating Tranche                                     Third Tranche
Teacher          Guidelines prepared for evaluation and accreditation of                                                    All public and private teacher training institutes which
Training         teacher training institutes according to the                                                               receive government funds evaluated on accreditation
recommendations of the Federal Cultural and Education                                                     and the results made public; a list of accredited teacher
Council.                                                                                                  training institutes and those subject to a phase out of
subsidies published.
Allocation of    New mechanisms approved by the authorities for                                                             Evaluation of performance ("auditoria") and subsidies
resources to     performance monitoring ("auditoria") of privately-                                                         completed, according to guidelines acceptable to the
private          administered primary and secondary schools receiving                                                       Bank, of at least 30% of the privately-administered
education        provincial financial support.                                                                              primary and secondary schools receiving provincial
providers                                                                                                                   financial support; and such evaluations publicly
disseminated; adjustment of provincial financial support
as a result of such evaluations.
Decentralized    Report prepared on experiences with design and                                                             All maintenance and consumable school supply
school           implementation of decentralized school management,                                                         expenditures in the education sector budget are self-
management       with analysis of priority, monitoring and evaluation                                                       administered by public primary and secondary schools.
(school          criteria.
autonomy)
Baseline values produced for repetition and dropout (per                                                  Reduction in repetition and dropout rates by at least 25%
school district, gender, and urban-rural) for primary and                                                 from 1999 levels in those 400 primary and secondary
secondary public schools.                                                                                 schools where the student learning and student socio-
economic monitoring systems operate.
Social           Government agreement to: (i) allocate in FY2001 100   Adherence to budget commitments.                     Adherence to budget commitments.
Protection       percent of budgeted resources for administrative costs of
the Ministry of Solidarity and 100 percent of year 2000                                                   Assessments completed, according to agreed terms of
disbursements for its programs; (ii) allocate in FY2001                                                   reference, of social protection programs of the Ministry
100 percent of FY2000 disbursements of the social                                                         of Solidarity.
protection programs of the Ministry of Production and
Labor; (iii) ensure that these disbursements will be                                                      At least 80,000 beneficiaries of provincial social
exempt from monthly fluctuations in budget execution                                                      protection programs have been registered in the national
ceilings, and the remaining portions of ministerial                                                       SISFAM register.
budgets will be subject to fluctuations no greater than
the averages of all ministries.
Designation of the Ministry of Solidarity and Ministry
of Production as pilot agencies for organizational
restructuring.
8



Annex C
Fiscal Outlook
1. Despite a recent history of fiscal volatility, C6rdoba is now in a position to maintain
fiscal stability over the medium term. Provided the province avoids imprudent tax cuts,
and maintains existing controls over personnel spending, the province is expected to have
sufficient revenues to meet its expenditure obligations over the medium term without
significant increases in debt.
Recent Fiscal Performance
2.  C6rdoba has a history of fiscal volatility. Within the last decade alone, it has
experienced a boom and two crises with a short period of recovery between them. The
boom began in 1991, after the passage of the Ley de Convertibilidad (establishing parity
between the peso and US dollar). Between 1991 and 1994, revenues increased 75 percent
in real terms. Expenditures, however, increased even faster (by 83 percent) largely due to
growing spending on personnel. To finance its deficit, C6rdoba borrowed from its bank,
the Banco de la Provincia de C6rdoba (BPC). By end-1993, borrowing from the BPC
(gross bf provincial deposits at the bank) totaled $436 million. By end-1994, it had
jumped to $725 million.
3. In 1995, after the crisis in Mexico, revenues fell five percent in real terms. Current
spending did not. Moreover, the BPC experienced a run on deposits. This ended the
province's ability to borrow from its bank and turned it instead into a financial drain. The
province was forced to pay off some of its own debt to the bank and borrow externally in
order to provide liquidity.
4. The Administration which took office in 1995 implemented drastic measures. To cut
the wage bill, it reduced salaries by 30 percent (in return for a reduction in the work day
from six hours to five), dismissed over 6,000 non-statutory staff, and transferred 1,500
health workers to the municipalities without compensation. It cut capital spending by 40
percent.  To pay off arrears to personnel, the government issued $800 million in
"certificates of cancellation of debt" (CECORs). CECORs could be used to pay taxes at
par or discounted on the secondary market. The impact of these measures was to reduce
the deficit to 8 percent of revenues in 1995.
5.  In the two subsequent years, the province's overall balance continued to improve.
The overall deficit was three percent of revenues in 1996, and turned to a surplus (2
percent of revenues) in 1997. This performance was aided by the province's signature of
a second pacto fiscal with the federal government which made $116 million in retroactive
co-participation funds available. The province also maintained its 30 percent cut in wages
throughout 1996 and the first five months of 1997.
6. The province used this breathing space to convert its short term CECOR debt into
longer term obligations. Four hundred million pesos in CECORs matured in July 1997
and another $200 million in January 1998. As the CECORs matured, the province retired
1



them, partly with cash and partly with medium term loans from private commercial banks.
In 1997, the province borrowed $130 million from the Banco de Rio de la Plata and the
Banco de Galicia to pay off the first group of CECORs, liquidating the rest from cash. It
borrowed another $120 million from the Banco de Galicia to pay off the second group.
As a result, the CECOR debt has largely been replaced by debt to private banks.
7. In 1998--an election year--the province reversed direction. It increased expenditures,
particularly on capital works. Revenues fell, in part due to a recession, and the province
ran a large deficit. As shown in the chart below, the current surplus fell to ten percent of
revenue and the overall balance turned negative (at 5 percent of revenues). The de la Sota
administration, taking office in mid-1999, thus stepped into a deteriorating situation. The
results for 1999--reflecting six months of the outgoing administration and six months of
the new one--show a continuing decline in the current surplus and a persistent overall
deficit.
Trends in Balances
8.    Promises   made
20.00                                                 during Governor de la
15.00-
10.00                                                 Sota's successful run for
5.00                                                 the governorship did not
|> 0.00-                              -.-- '    '   '  +currrent balance  improve the outlook for
-5.00 -9- omerall balance
DO -10.00-         -                                   the province's finances.
-15.00                                                 The governor's platform
-20.00 -                                               called   for  cuts  in
provincial tax rates and
increases  in  pension
benefits for provincial employees.  To date, however, these commitments have been
exercised cautiously. Only part of the tax cuts and pension increases have been enacted,
and the Government intends to refrain from any more such measures until fiscal conditions
warrant. Economic growth-after three years of recession-is also improving the fiscal
outlook. As a result, the fiscal indicators for the first six months of 2000 show a
turnaround. As shown in the chart above, the current surplus increased to about 6 percent
of revenues, and the overall deficit declined to five percent. While the province faces a
number of fiscal uncertainties over the medium term, its prospects are fairly good.
Revenues
9.  C6rdoba's revenues are largely derived from  federal revenue sharing and two
provincially administered taxes on gross receipts and property. Revenue sharing accounts
for about sixty percent of provincial revenues. The system consists of about a dozen
separate funds, each fed by a fixed percentage of designated federal revenues (under
normal circumstances) and distributed among the provinces on the basis of pre-determined
formulas. The largest of these--coparticipation--is normally derived from fixed shares of
the federal income, VAT, assets and excise taxes and is transferred to the provinces
without restrictions on its use. Other revenue sharing programs are earmarked for
housing, power, and roads (although under recent legislation, provinces can now spend 50
percent of these funds for other purposes).
2



10. Under the terms of a fiscal pact signed between the federal government and the
provinces in December of 1999, the Governnent will depart from this system in 2000 and
2001. Instead of transferring fixed shares of federal taxes, it will transfer a fixed amount--
$16.2 billion-in 2000. This is approximately the average of the amnounts transferred in
1998 and 1999. In 2001, the amount will be calculated as the average of the amounts
transferred in 1998, 1999, and 2000.' The shares of each province will remain unchanged.
This has important implications for C6rdoba, as the province's largest single source of
revenue will remain fixed during 2000 and 2001. This would be an advantage if the
national recession persisted: C6rdoba is protected from a downturn in federal revenues.
But it also means that, in the short run, C6rdoba would not benefit from any revival of the
national economy.
Table I Trends in Revenues
(Mns of Current Pesos)
1995     1996     1997     1998     1999    2000*
Current revenues             2,195.9  2,116.8  2,392.7  2,482.9  2,325.1  2,416.1
provincial revenues          976.3    994.2    956.3  1,098.2!   991.7  1,013.5
gross receipts             509.2    503.5    461.3    499.61   454.6    386.4
property                   224.9    245.5    250.5    285.8    274.6    252.0
federal transfers           1,219.6  1,122.5  1,436.4  1,384.74  1,333.4  1,402.6
*based on results through June 2000
Provincial taxes
11. In the interim, any revenue growth will instead have to come from provincial taxes.
As shown in Table 1, the largest source of tax revenue is the gross receipts tax, which
accounted for 45 percent of provincial own-source revenue in 1999. The gross receipts
tax is imposed as a fixed percentage of the sales of firms doing business in the province.
Until the mid-1990's the tax was a classic turnover tax, imposed at each state of
production and distribution. Under the 1993 pacto fiscal, C6rdoba (along with other
provinces) agreed to begin converting the tax to a retail sales tax. Agriculture, mining,
manufacturing, public utilities, construction and finance were to be exempted. C6rdoba
has not completed the conversion. Agriculture and most manufacturing are entirely
exempt, but electricity, construction, and certain financial operations remain taxable. Prior
to the most recent round of cuts, retail sales were taxed at 3.5 percent, and residential
power and telecommunications at rates of 5 or 6 percent. The tax is administered by self-
declaration; i.e., firms are expected to declare their monthly sales to the taxing authorities,
2
subject to such inspections and penalties as the taxing authorities impose.
Thereafter, if there is no co-participation law, revenue sharing will be distributed according to the
previous formula.
2 Firms that operate in more than one province are assessed on the basis of 'convenios multilaterales'
whereby the total amount of taxable activity is determined for the enterprise as a whole, and
distributed among the provinces. Thus multi-branch firms are subject to auditing by several different
provinces at the same time, as well as by the federal revenue services for purposes of the VAT.
Distribution is based only partly on the location of the firm's sales. Half of it is based on the location
of the firm's purchases
3



12. The other principal revenue source is a property tax assessed on both urban and rural
property, with a substantially higher rate on improved (built-upon) property. Valuation is
the responsibility of the provincial cadastral department, which is also charged with
incorporating new construction and changes in ownership onto the tax rolls. Valuations
are adjusted annually on the basis of an index. Billing and collection are the responsibility
of the tax department.
13. Prior to the de la Sota government, the quality of tax administration was extremely
lax.  A  recent IMF report3 cites weaknesses in the identification of taxpayers, the
processing of declarations, property valuation, and collection enforcement. Declaration of
gross receipts taxes is said to have been virtually voluntary. The property tax records
were rife with missing properties and incorrect exemptions. (Of 1.8 million properties on
the registry, 700,000 were classified as exempt.) Some sanctions authorized in the tax
code-such as closing down businesses-had not been imposed for decades.
14. The results are evident in the large stock of tax arrears shown in the table below. As
shown, arrears on the property tax equaled 282 percent of collections in 1998. Arrears on
the gross receipts tax were equal to 119 percent of the previous year's collections. (Note
that arrears on the gross receipts tax understate the imnpact of poor administration. They
show only the difference between what is declared and what is paid; not the difference
between what is due and what is declared. )
Table 2 Stock of tax arrears millions of Pes )
Tax                Stock of    Collections   Ratio of
arrears*     1998      Debt to
.____ ____ ____    I __ _  Collection
Gross receipts      582.8       491.5      1.19
Property            856.4       303.9       2.82
Automobile          141.3        35.5       3.98
Total               1580.5      830.9.      1.90
* as of August 1999. Includes only principal, not interest or fines
Source: Casanegra, op.cit.
15. The current government has taken two major actions in the fiscal area, with opposite
impacts on tax revenues. First, it has improved administration, stepping up efforts to
collect overdue accounts and cracking down on current delinquents. In an attempt to
reduce the stock of arrears, the government declared an amnesty on accumulated penalties
and interest through November, 1999. This has been successful--at least with respect to
the property tax. Approximately 600,000 taxpayers have signed up for the amnesty,
representing $680 million in overdue debt (nearly all from property taxes) to be paid over
the next four years.
1 6. The province is also cracking down on missing accounts, underdeclarations, and
slack collection enforcement. As of late July 2000, the province had carried out 13,000
inspecciones por rastrillo (superficial inspections of designated neighborhoods to ensure
that all properties and businesses are registered).  Five hundred audits have been
3M. Casanegra, et. al, Argentina: Fortalecimiento de la administracion tributaria de la Provincia de
C6rdoba, 1999
4



conducted. Approximately 1000 taxpayers have been notified of impending sanctions, and
122 businesses have been closed for periods ranging from three to five days.
17. Cuts in tax rates At the same time, the province has reduced tax rates. Effective in
October 1999, the property tax rate was reduced by 30 percent and the rate of the gross
receipts tax for business paying the flat ingresos minimos rate was reduced by the same
amount. In December of 1999, the rate of gross receipts tax for medium scale businesses
(billings up to $280,000) were reduced by 30 percent. In April, 2000, the cut was
extended to firms with billings up to $480,000 and for car dealers and service stations of
any size.
18. To date, the cuts in tax rates have not resulted in a decline in revenues. Revenues
from the property tax in the first eight months following the tax cut (October 1999-May
2000) were ten percent higher than in the equivalent period a year earlier. Similarly,
revenues from the gross receipts tax were ten percent higher following the first cut in the
gross receipts tax.. The chart on the following page shows the month-to month yields of
the gross receipts and property taxes. The timing of the three tax cuts is shown by three
triangles. (To distinguish the possible impact of underlying changes in the tax base, a
rough economic indicator-sales at supermarkets--is also illustrated.) As shown, revenues
from the gross receipts and property tax (after allowing for seasonal variations) appear to
be impervious to the rate cuts implemented to date.4
19. Part of the resilience of tax revenues is due to the impact of the moratorium.
Moratorium receipts accounted for an estimated 18 percent of revenues between October
and May, 2000.' But the moratorium does not explain everything. Much of the resilience
of tax revenues appears to be explained by improved administration--specifically stepped
up enforcement against delinquents. This would not be surprising. Given the poor quality
of tax administration under the previous regime, a determiined effort at enforcement would
6
be expected to have a substantial impact on revenues.
4Note that property tax revenues traditionally spike in February and March each year, as taxpayers have
the option of paying their annual liability in one installment at the beginning of the year, or in
several installments.
5Arganaraz, N. et.al. La Situacion Fiscal de Cordoba: Las Cuentas en El '99 Y Las Perspectivas para el
2000, June 2000
6 A recent study of C6rdoba (Petrei, H. Baja de lasas y recaudacion tributaria en la Provincia, July 2000)
attempts to address this question statistically. It regresses variations in tax revenues against three
explanatory variables: changes in tax rates, changes in the underlying economy, and the one-time
impact of the moratorium. The attempt is unsuccessful: a large proportion of variation in revenues
remains unexplained. This suggests that changes in the quality of tax administration--the missing
explanatory variable--accounts for much of the change in revenues
5



Trends in Tax Revenues
120
100 
e 80           -__                      _____       -.-<X  X  gross rcts
80  
60                                                       m +property
E0                                                       A tax cut
20 -                                                X2- sales
;   o
20. The government now proposes to drop the gross receipts tax rate on the remaining
taxpayers; those with billings over $480,000. This could have a more damaging effect
than the preceding cuts for two reasons. First, large taxpayers are an important part of the
tax base. Historically, about 50 percent of the gross receipts tax revenue is derived from
this group. Second, the losses due to the cut will be difficult to offset by improved
collection enforcement. Unlike the previous cuts, the final cut would largely affect sectors
where the quality of tax administration is already fairly good. Public utilities--power and
telecommunications-- are a large part of this base. As the number of such companies is
small and their record keeping is relatively good, taxation is relatively straightforward.
The rest of the base consists of large, mostly retail, firms, which are (again) few in
number and relatively well organized in terms of record keeping.
6



The impact of tax cuts on tax revenues
Tax cuts are sometimes made in the hope of stimulating local economic growth. But what is the
evidence that they will do so in C6rdoba? The argument for growth-inducing tax cuts assumes that local
business taxes are a significant costs to the firms that pay them. Lowering such taxes, it is believed, will
increase profits. Rising profits will generate the savings required for further investment. Higher profits
may also attract outside investors. But there are problems with this argument. First, provincial taxes are
not a large part of the cost of doing business in C6rdoba. Total revenues from the gross receipts tax are
equal to about two percent of provincial GDP (as opposed to an aggregate tax burden of about 20% of
GDP.) Evidence from the U.S.7 suggests that it is labor cost and quality and access to suppliers and
markets that largely account for geographical differences in production costs. If this is true of Argentina,
cuts in the gross receipts tax are unlikely to affect the location decisions of firms.
Even if tax cuts did affect the profitability of firms, they would affect the sectors that lie at the core
of C6rdoba's economy. The gross receipts tax is not imposed on all businesses. It is instead in large part a
retail sales tax (although upstream production and distribution continue to be subject to some degree of
taxation, as noted earlier.) Cuts in the rate would therefore not affect the profitability of the footloose
industries or manufacturing plants that C6rdoba might want to attract. Rather, its immediate benefits will
be confined to the producers and distributors subject to the tax.
Depending on the elasticities of demand and supply for the goods and services subject to the tax,
the ultimate benefits of the tax cut will be divided between consumers (in the form of lower prices) and
producers/distributors (in the form of higher profits). Some of this will result in higher levels of spending
and investment within the province. But because C6rdoba is a small and very open economy, much of the
impact will be dispersed throughout the Argentina economy as a whole.
The cuts may nevertheless have an indirect impact on growth. Evidence from the U.S. suggests
that the primary impact of local tax relief is to serve as an indictor of the local business climate. In this
respect, the tax cuts may stimulate investment in C6rdoba-not through their direct impact on the bottom
line, but through their impact on the perceptions of investors.
21. Further increases in revenue may nevertheless be possible through additional
improvements in tax administration, particularly on medium size firms and property tax
payers. As noted earlier, the government's efforts to date have focused on recovery of
arrears and collection enforcement. More systematic reforms in taxpayer identification,
auditing, and assessment could generate additional revenues. The recent IMF report, now
reflected in the conditionality of the C6rdoba PRL, recommends that the province: (a)
implant a unique tax identification number for each taxpayer and establish a system for
updating taxpayer data; (b) design a system for tracking declarations and payments of
major taxpayers; (c) design an system for monitoring that will clearly identify the number
of cases to investigate, methods for the selection of cases, and the procedures for
implementation; (d) organize the information on cases now under judicial review to
determine the amounts actually due, and assign more qualified lawyers to judicial
collection; (e) create a working group to define the operational and management
information requirements of the new computer system; (f) intensify efforts to establish
local taxpayer service offices in the interior of the province; (h) design a program to
strengthen personnel, include new hiring and training of professional staff; and (i) improve
7Do State and Local Tax Incentives Work? Economic Policy Institute, Washington DC, 1999
7



coordination between the tax department and the departments of the cadaster and title
registry.
22. The report also recommends a moratorium on moratoria. The frequency of tax
amnesties in the past has undermined the credibility of the tax department. Penalties are
so often forgiven that they are no longer taken seriously. In order to clearly demonstrate
the government's intention to refrain from further moratoria, the government has
submitted a bill to congress to repeal the tax code provision authorizing tax amnesties.
23. The province has additional plans to increase revenues. One is to expand the tax
base. As noted earlier, the rates on major activities--including manufacturing and banking-
-were substantially reduced following the pacto fiscal of 1993. The province believes that
there are activities within these sectors that are still taxable at the normal retail rate. These
would include retail sales made directly by factories, and the nonlending services provided
by banks. The province intends to pursue them.
24. The province is also embarking on a major effort to incorporate missing buildings
onto the property tax registry. The tax department believes that roughly 10 million square
meters of buildings are missing from the tax rolls.  These include major industrial
properties in the outskirts of the capital. In 2000, it has identified and valued about 30
percent of them. In 2001, it intends to incorporate the remainder.
25. In addition, the province is experimenting with new collection techniques. Retail
sales at gas stations have traditionally been a source of evasion, for example. To address
this, the province intends to introduce what amounts to retention at source. Refineries
will be required to pay 80 percent of the amount due by their retailers, with individual
stations responsible for the remainder.
26. If these measures prove inadequate, the province is committed to rescinding the final
cut in the gross receipts tax. The Government has assured the Bank that the province will
refrain or limit the final round of cuts if fiscal conditions so require. According to the
Finance Ministry, no decision has been reached as to whether the Ley for 2001 will include
the 30 percent tax cut for large firms or not. The governor nevertheless has the authority
to rescind the cut at any time during the budget year.  Under current budgeting
procedures, the governor submits an annual Ley Impositiva (Tax Law) to the legislature.
This establishes the rates for all taxes during the upcoming budget year. The governor,
however, has the legal authority to reverse the cut by decree at any time during the budget
year, subject to ratification by Congress. (Ratification does not require a positive act. It
merely gives Congress the power to overturn gubernatorial decrees at its discretion.)
Personnel Costs
27. C6rdoba expects to maintain tight control over personnel cost over the next several
years. As shown in the Table 3, C6rdoba's previous experirnent with controls over
personnel costs ended in 1996. Personnel costs rebounded in 1997, 1998, and 1999, far
outstripping growth in revenues.
8



Table 3 Trends in Expenditure
(millions of current pesos)
1995      1996      1997       1998      1999       2000
Current expenditure              2,240.2   1,869.8   2,057.4   2,239.0   2,227.8   2,267.7
personnel                        1,202.7   1,060.9   1,180.5   1,213.4   1,256.4   1,307.8
equipment and supplies            380.6      180.8     198.7      254.1     198.7      194.7
interest payments                 122.8       81.5      82.2      128.0     138.9       92.6
transfers                         534.1      546.6     596.0      643.4     633.7     672.6
to municipios                   297.5     304.7      335.2     358.2      324.4     344.2
to schools                      116.8      115.3     137.9     148.6      176.1     176.1
to retirement fund                1.8       59.1      48.2       14.7      15.0      45.0
Capital expenditure                161.8     186.5      279.6     386.2      258.0     298.4
physical investment               119.9     140.1      176.8     282.3     204.5      238.0
financial investment               41.9      46.4      102.8     103.9       53.5      60.4
Total expenditures               2,402.0  2,056.30  2,337.07  2,625.23   2,485.8   2,566.1
Memorandum: amnortization of       267.0     402.7      170.7     141.1      68.4      311.4
short/medium term debt
28. Active Personnel. Total spending  on  active  personnel consumed  54  percent of
revenues in 1999 (up from 50 percent during the three previous years.) This figure
includes payments to permanent employees (titulares), short term contractors (interinos)
and in the case of teaching staff, persons hired to substitute for interinos on sick leave
(suplentes). Total personnel costs may be somewhat higher, as some agencies of the
province--but not units of direct administration--hire staff as firms rather than as
employees. The number of such staff is not known.
Table 4 Number of Positions and Staff, April 2000    29.  There  are  widespread  abuses  of the
Total   Education   system,  particularly  in  the  ministries  of
total positions              122791       79852  Education and Health. In fiscal terms, one of
employees*                    97603       53209         mor          a      bs   is  teractice of
permanentes                   82118       43888  the more egregious abuses is the practice of
interinos, suplentes          15485        9321  hiirng as many as three people to fill a single
*Because staff may hold more than one position, the number o   teaching position: the permanent staffperson
positions exceeds the number of employees. Note that the
number of permanent staff reported in this table is roughly  (titular) who is allowed to take indefinite sick
15,000 greater than the figure reported in budget. This is  leave; the substitute (interino) who may take
because the budget figure excludes secondary school teachers  sick  leave after six months in the   osition,
who are paid on an hourly basis (hora de catedra)                                             p
and   the   substitute   for   the   substitute
(suplente). While suplentes are confined to the teaching profession, the practice of hiring
contractual employees to replace permanent staff on sick leave appears to be widespread.
As shown in table 4, the roughly 15 percent of the labor force consists of interinos and
suplentes. s
3 0. The government intends to control personnel costs, in part, by reducing the number
of staff. To do so, it has restored the hiring freeze imposed by the previous administration
The Ministry of Education recently contracted a private firm to control absenteeism in the teaching
profession.
9



and has toughened controls over hiring processes. (Under the previous administration,
sectoral ministries could hire staff at will as long as their staffing level remained below the
ceiling established in the personnel law. Now any request for hiring-whether permanent
or temporary-must be approved in advance by the central Department of Personnel.) 9
3 1. The government will speed the reduction in staff by encouraging staff who have met
the conditions for retirement to do so and establishing several programs aimed at
supporting early departures. These include: (i) an early retirement program, whereby staff
who are within 10 years of retirement can retire at 60 percent of their current salary until
they reach retirement age--at which time they are entitled to the same retirement benefits
they would have received if they had remained on the job; (ii) indemnification, whereby
younger staff receive a one time payment for time served and then depart without further
pension rights; and (iii) a program of subsidized jobs in the private sector. As a result of
these measures, significant reductions in staff will be achieved through attrition.
3 2. Personnel costs will also be controlled by maintaining a wage freeze that has been in
effect since 1993 (shortly following the Ley de Convertibilidad). As noted earlier, the
previous administration imposed a 30 percent cut in wages in 1995. Since then, wages
have fully restored only for teachers and health workers. There is said to be little pressure
for wage increases. Due to the recession in C6rdoba, staff apparently are more concerned
with keeping their jobs than increasing their remuneration.
3 3. Retirement costs. While the costs of active staff appear to be under control, the
costs of retirees is less so. C6rdoba's system of retirement and survivor benefits--the Caja
de Jubilaciones--is an unfunded defined benefit system. Its revenues are largely derived
from fixed levels of deductions from staff and contributions from the province. Any cash
flow shortfall between deductions and contributions on one hand, and the benefits on the
other, are made up from general provincial revenues. In terms of benefits, the present
system is one of the most generous publicly administered retirement plans in Argentina.
But contribution levels are also high. Employee contribution rates range from 18 percent
(central administration and teachers) to 22 percent (police). Employer contribution rates
range from 20 percent to 25 percent.'0 Historically, statutory contributions have been
sufficient to cover benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis, with the exception of the special plan
for the police. (Police are permitted to retire earlier than other staff but have the same
level of contributions.) As a result, deficit subsidies to the pension system have been
relatively small, averaging just under three percent of current revenues between 1995 and
1998. In 1999, the pension fund had a surplus of $55 million on regular staff and a deficit
on the police of $70 million. Provincial subsidies to the pension fund therefore totaled
$15 million.
9Note that the hiring freeze is not being applied to employees in education and health. The demand for
teaching positions, in fact, is likely to increase due to a large scale program of school construction
and re-opening now underway. The government hopes to avoid hiring new staff for these new
facilities by reassigning some of the suplentes and interinos now employed in existing facilities. If
this is successful, it will reduce the triplication of teaching staff that now contributes to excessive
personnel costs.
0 F. Bertanou; El Gasto Previsional de la Provincia de Cdrdoba, January 2000
10



34. There are, however, ominous signs. Effective January 2000, the province raised the
mnimium pension to $500/month. As a result, the consolidated subsidy for this year is
expected to total $40 million. Long term actuarial trends are also working against the
province. The number of beneficiaries has been increasing rapidly: from 60,109 in 1995 to
67,165 in 1999. The ratio of contributors to beneficiaries is now only 2:1. The World
Bank's pension forecasting model-PROST--predicts a sharp increase in the number of
staff retiring in 2000-2003. This is due to a change in length-of-service requirements in
1996 and the transfer of federal teachers to the province in the early 1990's. Both cohorts
are now becoming eligible to retire. Analyses by the World Bank, the National
Government, independent think tanks, and staff at the pension fund confirm that the
provincial pension fund is both fiscally and actuarially unsound.
35. Under the terms of the fiscal pact of December 1999, the federal government is
encouraging provinces to bring their pension systems into line with the parameters of the
federal system, which has lower contribution levels and lower benefits. Because both the
federal and provincial governments recognize that it would not be politically feasible to cut
benefits to existing retirees, the federal government has agreed to subsidize the difference
between provincial and federal benefits for this particular group of beneficiaries. The
subsidy would be phased in over time. The pacto fiscal specifies that the federal
government will cover 5 percent of the deficit in 2000 and 20 percent in 2001, but does
not specify when 100 percent financing would be implemented. Progress on this issue has
been delayed by ongoing negotiations over revisions to the federal revenue sharing system,
which C6rdoba (along with other provinces) regards as an integral part of the reform
package.
36. In the short term, adopting the parameters of the federal system would have an
adverse impact on the province's finances. C6rdoba would have to continue paying the
existing level of benefits to existing retirees, but with a much smaller level of employee
contributions. This impact would diminish as the federal subsidy increased. Once federal
support is fully phased in, C6rdoba would no longer have to subsidize existing retirees. In
addition, its contribution to the pension fund as an employer would decline, in line with
federal parameters.
37. The province has proposed a plan of its own. Under this proposal, the province
would technically comply with the federal parameters while continuing to maintain
contribution and benefits at their existing levels. This would be accomplished by legally
establishing a separate, federally compatible, pension fund and a complementary fund to
which contributions in excess of federal parameters would be deposited and benefits in
excess of federal parameters would be paid out. In effect, this would permit the province
to qualify for the federal subsidy, without requiring it to cut benefits or contributions.
3 8. From the province's standpoint, its short term fiscal implications are positive: it is
equivalent to the first option, with the additional benefit of a federal subsidy. From the
standpoint of the nation as a whole, it has less to recommend it. Subsidies would have to
be paid by national taxpayers. And the two-fund system would not address the problem
that plagues the current plan: it would continue to be actuarially unsound. As the ratio of
11



contributors to beneficiaries declines, the need for increasing subsidies-this time to the
provincial compensatory fund--will grow. The addition of a federal subsidy would allow
the province to postpone the day of reckoning for some time, but not indefinitely.
impact of pension reform options
(level of provincial subsidies)
300
250
200
150                                         -4--no change
E  100                                         -r n-federal plan
61W  50                  g                      mixed
0
-5 0   2001   2002   2003   2        20 5
-1 00 --
39. The fiscal implications of these options were calculated using PROST. As shown in
the chart above, the "no change" option would result in a steadily increasing level of
pension subsidies--the result of the recent increase in the minimum pension and the rising
num'ber of retirees."1 The federal option, in contrast, would produce an immediate
increase in pension subsidies (due to falling contributions) followed by a steady decline as
the federal subsidy grows. (The "negative subsidies" in 2004 and 2005 reflect falling
employer contributions.) In the short run, the province's "mixed" option would be least
costly from the standpoint of the province. With federal subsidies phasing in, the need for
provincial subsidies would decline in the initial years. In the outer years beyond 2005,
however, the trend would reverse. As the number of new retirees under the provincial
compensatory plan increases, the need for provincial subsidies will begin to climb.
40. Given the drawbacks to the province's proposal, it is unlikely that it will be accepted
by the federal government. The province, meanwhile, is reluctant to accept the terms of
the federal proposal. It is not persuaded of the political benefits of cutting pension
benefits to staff who retire after the agreement goes into effect. Progress on pension
reforrn is complicated by ongoing negotiations over other aspects federal provincial
relations. Negotiations on federal debt refinancing and a new Ley de Coparticipaciones
are ongoing. In the short term, it therefore appears unlikely that any change to the present
system will be adopted. The outlook for C6rdoba's pension costs is therefore one of
steadily climbing subsidies to the pension system. Over the next five years, these will be
fiscally manageable. It is important, nevertheless, that a longer term solution to the
pension problem be adopted in the interim.
Debt Service
4 1. Debt service is another potentially major claim on the province's resources. The size
of C6rdoba's debt obligations has been the subject of recent dispute. On taking office, the
de la Sota administration commissioned an inventory conducted by an international
l All three scenarios assume that retiring staff would be replaced by new hires at a ratio of 1:1.
12



accounting firm of the province's debt. This produced a figure of $3.3 billion. The
province recognizes some parts of the debt and is servicing it. It accepts other parts but
argues that it makes no immediate claims on debt service. It disputes the legitimacy of the
remainder.
42. Contractual Debt. The debt consists of four major blocks. Roughly $1 billion is
comprised of debt to banking institutions, suppliers credits, and bonds. This debt is
undisputed. As shown in Table 5, sixty percent of the total--$622 million--is owed to
private domestic banks.12.  Due to the short maturities on this debt, the province is
periodically confronted with liquidity crises. In 1999, the province rolled over the entire
amount that was due to mature. This year (2000) it has contracted its largest creditor-
Banco de Galicia-to organize a financing package with other private banks to roll over
both principal and accumulated interest. Under the December 1999 pacto fiscal, the
federal government made a tentative agreement to refinance the domestic bank debt in
conjunction with private banks. Its offer was subject to provincial commitments to
reform.'3 Although C6rdoba has complied with the federal conditions, federal aid to date
has been concentrated on provinces in more dire fiscal circumstances.
43. Debt to international banks-mostly the IDB and IBRD-is also a significant
component of this block of debt, as is structured debt to suppliers. (The latter is
equivalent to private bank debt in the sense that it is owed to private entities and bears an
interest rate and amortization schedule.)
Table 5 Trends in Stock of Contractual Debt and Arrears
(Mn pesos)
1997      1998       1999
Contractual debt                         960.7      899.8    1022.0
Banking institutions                    467.0      767.8      939.2
Domestic banks                         355.7      629.3      778.0
banco de la provincia                  99.5      162.4      155.4
private domestic banks                256.2      466.9      622.6
Foreign banks (IBRD, IDB, etc.)        111.3      138.5      161.2
Nen-banking institutions                493.7       132.0      82.8
Debt to contractors, supplier credits A  37.9      59.6       50.1
Bond debt (CECORs)                     367.8       21.2       11.3
Other deuda financiera                    87.5      51.3       21.4
Accounts payable                         207.7      216.4      330.6
Total                                   1,161.7    1,109.6    1,352.7
12 Much of this is the result of the conversion of arrears, first into CECORs and then into bank debt. This
is shown, in the text table, in the abrupt drop in bond debt and corresponding rise in bank debt
between 1997 and 1998.
1 The clause in the pactofiscal commits the federal government to "implement a program tending to
facilitate the extension of maturities and more convenient interest rates for those provinces whose
difficulties might so justify, following the signature of individual commitments to deficit reduction,
financial control, efficiency, and transparency in expenditures, reorganization of provincial and
municipal finances, and support for provincial legislation along the lines of the national law on the
administration of resources and fiscal solvency"
13



44. Debt subject to verification.  The second block of debt, totaling $964 million,
consists of disputed claims against the treasury by provincial agencies. The largest share--
$770 million-represents claims by the Caja de Jubilaciones (Pension Fund). This debt
arises from two forms of arrears on the statutory obligations of the province: (i) subsidies
to special pensions (such as the police) where the combination of normal employee-and
employer contributions is deliberately set below the level required to fund corresponding
pension benefits; and (ii) normal employer contributions. Traditionally, the province's
policy has been to transfer just enough funds to the Caja to permit it to meet its
obligations to retirees. This has often been less than the amount required by statute. The
Caja now regards these shortfalls as loans to the province and demands repayment. The
province and the Caja are in the process of negotiating a settlement of this debt and expect
some resolution by the end of 2000.
45. Contingent liabilities.  The third block of debt, totaling $841 mnillion, consists of
contingent liabilities. This includes pending court judgments against the province, and
guarantees arising from the sale of accounts receivable and non-performing BPC loans.
The province recognizes the latter debt but is not servicing it, arguing that the liability will
be extinguished once the Bank is sold.
46. Accounts payable. The province also had a fairly high level of accounts payable at
the end of 1999. The total--$33 1 million--represents a significant claim on resources and
a major increase over the level of a year earlier. It is not, however, indicative of growing
short term  liabilities.  Due to an accounting change introduced under the current
govermnent, obligations that were once off budget (residuos pasivos) are now reflected in
the debt tables. If residuos pasivos are included in the 1998 figure, accounts payable
actually declined between 1998 and 1999, and are expected to continue to do so.
47. Overall, C6rdoba's existing level of contractual debt and accounts payable is
manageable. The total stock of contractual debt and accounts payable is equal to about 60
percent of revenue, and interest payments in 1999 consumed only six percent of current
revenues. Provided the disputed debt with the Caja is resolved in favor of the province
and that the contingent liabilities remain contingent, the existing debt stock will not
present a major claim on revenues.
48. Financing the sale of BPC   Significant level of debt could, however, arise from
the financing plan for the sale of the Banco de C6rdoba (BPC). BPC has a very large
negative net worth. The size of the gap in BPC's balance sheet remains to be determined,
but the Finance Ministry is willing to posit a difference between assets and liabilities of
$600 million. This will have to be paid off when the bank is sold.
49. At present, a financing plan for doing so exists in only very broad terms. According
to the Finance Ministry, part of the gap would be financed by the World Bank loan.
Assuming the floating tranche is disbursed during 2001, $200 mnillion would be available
(with another $100 million after second tranche release). The province also has two assets
with large positive net worths that it intends to sell: the power company (EPEC) and the
state gambling monopoly. (The latter would be would be concessioned.) The value of the
14



two assets has yet to be determined. The Finance Ministry is nevertheless willing to posit
a combined value of $1 billion.
50. In principle, this would be more than sufficient to finance the gap in BPC's balance
sheet. But there are already claims on the EPEC and gambling monopoly proceeds.
Under the provincial reform law, $100 million of the proceeds must go to a special fund
for small and medium scale enterprises. Another $400 million must be allocated to public
works. The rest must be used to pay off existing provincial debt. According to the
Finance Minister, these restrictions can be partly sidestepped. By spending $400 million in
privatization proceeds on public works, the government can reduce its normal capital
spending program to zero, freeing roughly $200 million to pay off the liabilities of the
bank. Reducing the existing stock of debt will also reduce interest costs, further freeing
revenues. The province argues that the combination of the IBRD loan and savings on
capital works and interest costs will be sufficient to finance the sale of BPC. There are
large uncertainties associated with this plan, however. Since the market price of all three
assets has yet to be determined, the financing plan could be either inadequate or
overbudgeted. Consultants working on all three operations will produce more accurate
price estimates within a few months.
5 1. If the sale of BPC does require additional financing, the province would be in a good
position to obtain it. With the provincial debt stock substantially reduced, the province
would be presumably be able to borrow--either in the domestic or international market--to
finance the remaining liabilities of the BPC.
Prognosis
52. To assess the province's prospects and their sensitivity to adverse developments,
projections of each mnajor item of cash flow and of the stock of debt were made for the
period 2000-2005. For all major items, except capital works and borrowing, results for
2000 were based on performance in the first six months of the year. The key assumptions
for the five subsequent years are as follows:
5 3. Revenues. Revenues from the gross receipts tax are projected to grow at the rate of
provincial GDP, with mninor additional increases due to improved administration. This
presumes that no further cuts will be made in the gross receipts tax rate unless they are
compensated by additional improvements in tax administration. The provincial GDP, in
turn, is expected to grow moderately over the next five years, reversing previous trends.
Cordoba's economy shrank by roughly four percent in 1999, closely paralleling trends in
the national economy as a whole. Lately, the national economy has shown signs of
recovery. Quarterly data from the Ministry of Economy show a positive growth rate in
the first quarter of 2000. C6rdoba, too, is showing signs of a turnaround. The provincial
GDP is estimated to have grown 1.8 percent in the first quarter. Car production-a core
sector--was up 50 percent in the first quarter of 2000 compared to the same quarter a year
earlier. Soy and cattle production were both up about nine percent (in terms of physical
quantities).'4 The most recent CAS for Argentina (May 2000) predicted that the national
14 Bolsa de Comercio de C6rdoba, Contexto Economico, June 2000
15



GDP would grow by 3 percent in 2000, 4.5 percent 2001 and 4.3 percent in 2003. (In
nominal terms, this would represent growth rates of about 2.5 percent, 5 percent, and 5.3
percent in 2000, 2001 and 2002 respectively.) However, these estimates are now
considered optimistic and more modest growth for 2000 and 20001 is currently expected
as the recovery has been slow. For projection purposes, it is assumed that C6rdoba's
economy will continue to follow the national trend. Annual growth in regional GDP is
therefore projected to be 4.5 percent in nominal terms, over the period 2001-2005.
54. Revenues from the property tax are also projected to grow at the rate of the
economy, with irnprovements in administration compensating for the cut in the tax rate in
October of 1999. Additional increases of 5% in 2001 and 6% in 2002 and 2003 are
projected, reflecting the incorporation of new square footage into the cadaster. Receipts
from the tax moratorium are projected to total $688 million over the period, with most of
the receipts concentrated in the first three years. This figure is based on the value of
property tax arrears declared during the recent moratorium, and the Government's
expectation of collection on arrears from  the gross receipts tax.  Revenues from
coparticipaciones in 2000 and 2001 are based on the amounts commnitted in the federal
fiscal pact of December 1999. After 2001, it is assumed that coparticipaciones will grow
at only 3 percent per year, somewhat lower than the rate of the national economy.
5 5. Expenditures. C6rdoba's largest item of expenditure-the wage bill of active staff--
is projected to remain constant over the projection period. This reflects the government's
partial freeze on hiring, its program of early dismissals and its commitment to maintaining
the current freeze on wages. Pension costs, however, are expected to rise, as the ratio of
contributors to beneficiaries declines. (The projections assume no reform in the pension
system over the next five years.) Transfers to municipalities are expected to remain a
constant percentage of shareable revenues. Expenditures on capital works are projected
to increase slightly over their historical proportion of current revenues, reflecting the use
of proceeds from the proposed IDB loan and sale of assets. As described earlier, the
majority of proceeds from asset sales will be used reduce the stock of existing debt.
(Costs of liquidating BPC's liabilities and capitalizing the special fund for small businesses
are netted out of privatization proceeds and therefore do not appear in the projections.)
16



Table 6 Projection of Revenues and Expenditures, 2000-2005
millions of ilrrfent ni-.-n ;
1999      2000       2001       2002       2003      2004      2005
Current revenues                 2,325.1    2.416.1    2,522.6    2,602.4    2,619.8  2,656.1   2,695.8
.provincial revenues              991.7   1,013.5   1.090. 1    1,161.4   1,135.6  1,127.3  1,121.1
gross receipts                 454.6      386.4      424.0      460.8      486.4    513.3    541.8
property                       274.6      252.0      270.5      293.2      317.8    328.2    338.9
federal transfers               1,333.4    1.402.6    1,432.6    1,441.0    1,484.3   1,528.8  1,574.6
Non-debt capital rcts*              25.2       26.0     426.0       26.0       26.3      26.5      26.8
net from privatization  __400.0                                 
Current expenditure              2,227.8    2,267.7    2 308. 1    2,331.0    2,346.9   2,411.2   2,435.3
personnel                       1,256.4    1,307.8    1,307.8    1,307.8    1.320.9   1,334.1   1,347.4
equipment, supplies               198.7      194.7     214.7      201.1      197.6    204.6    181.4
interest payments                 138.9      92.6      105.5       92.6       68.1      77.3      79.9
transfers                         633.7     672.6      680.2      729.5      760.4    795.2    826.7
to municipios                   324.4      344.2      361.1      380.8     381.6    385.4    389.7
to schools                      176.1      176.1      176.1      176.1      177.9    179.6    181.4
to retirement fund               15.0       45.0       73.0      101.0      127.7    155.4    179.0
CaWital expenditure                258.0      298.4     336.6      356.4      299.2    271.3    283.2
phvsical investment              204.5      238.0      274.8      293.3      234.6    205.3    215.7
financial investment              53.5       60.4       61.8       63.1       64.6      66.0      67.5
Total Expenditure                2.485.8    2,566.?   2.644. 7    2,687.4    2,646.1   2,682.6  2,718.6
Overall surplus (-deficit)**      -135.5    -124.0       -96.01     -59.0        0.0      0.0       4.0
*sale of assets, rents, interest income, etc. ** excluding amortization and receipts from privatization
56. The result of these projections, shown in Table 6, is a sustained current account
surplus, equal to 8.5 percent of revenues in 2001 and ten percent of revenues in the
remaining years of the projection period. C6rdoba would experience significant overall
deficits (net of privatization proceeds) in 2000 and 2001.  This would rapidly decline in
the subsequent years,
Trends in Balances                               falling to nil in 2003.
150                                                                    5 7.  The   deficit  in
10.0                                                                   2001-arising         from
   5.0-       ~                          .                           the   sale  of  BCP-
o.- +currrent balance    would  be    largely
2   -          ,     .U- .             ,        *    +overall balance      financed from  the sale
1999  2000  2001 _2   2003  2004  2005
-5.0         -of    EPEC                                                                   and    the
-10.0-                                                                  concessioning  of  the
lottery.  The proposed
Bank loan and a
proposed IDB  loan will also contribute.  But the province also has large amortization
costs coming due over the period. For purposes of projection, it was assumed that the
costs of amortization, plus any part of the overall deficit not financed through asset sales
or multilateral lending, would be financed from additional domestic debt. The result,
nevertheless, is a declining stock of debt. The debt revenue ratio (including accounts
payable) is projected to peak at .58:1 in 2000, declining to .47:1 at the end of the
projection period.
5 8. These scenarios are sensitive to three major factors. The first is the growth rate of
the economy. Economic growth is expected to account for most of the growth in tax
17



revenues. (As noted earlier, improvements in tax administration will just offset cuts in tax
rates.) Growth in the national economy will affect the trends in federal transfers
(coparticipaciones). A continued recession, at both the national and provincial level (with
no change in the transfer formula) would result in a persistent overall deficit, averaging
four percent of current revenues over the projection period.
59. The second factor is the durability of the province's commitment to restraining its
wage bill, and its intransigence on the issue of pension reform. Tight control over the
costs of active personnel is key to the province's prospects. It is the growing difference
between revenues and personnel costs that will allow the province to emerge from a
persistent pattern of overall deficits into surpluses, while maintaining a substantial program
of capital investment. A sudden increase in personnel spending would end this trend. The
province's pension system is such a sudden increase in the making. It is therefore critical
that the province proceed with pension reform as quickly as possible.
60. The third source of fiscal uncertainty is the price the province will receive for EPEC
and the lottery, and the price it must pay to privatize the provincial bank. If the shortfall in
BPC's balance sheet were $1000 million instead of $600 million, for example, the
province would have to borrow extensively. The debt:revenue ratio would rise to .7:1 by
the end of 2002 and remain at that level throughout the projection period.
61. The position of provincial governments in Argentina's federal system provides some
safeguards against the latter two outcomes, however. Under the present structure, the
provincial government has considerable fiscal autonomy: it can change tax rates, dismiss
staff, change wage levels, and cut capital spending in response to adverse fiscal
circumstances. At the same time, it confronts a fairly hard budget constraint. With the
sale of BPC, it will not be able to borrow from the provincial bank. The opportunity for
borrowing from the federal govermnent is limited. Unlike Brazil or Mexico, the Argentine
government is not a major lender to provinces, nor is the Argentina central bank likely to
provide a market for unsaleable provincial bonds. Direct federal relief is unlikely. While
Argentina has a history of bailing out smaller provinces, Cordoba is an unlikely candidate
under the current regime. The province can, of course, run up arrears to suppliers and
contractors, but this source of financing has its limits: eventually suppliers and contractors
will cease to do business with the province. Even private banks, with their access to
coparticipaciones as collateral-are unlikely to overextend themnselves. The amount of
coparticipaciones that can be pledged as collateral is limited by statute.  (Banking
regulations also presumably limit exposure to subnational governments.) In the absence of
a congenial lender of last resort, C6rdoba is likely to be forced to trim its spending to
match its resources.
18



Annex D
Privatization of Electricity Company
1.    EPEC (Empresa Provincial de Energia de C6rdoba) is a province owned electricity
distribution and generation company. The province intends to privatize or concession the
company's assets with the aim to reduce costs, increase investment, and improve services.
Electricity Generation
2.    The company owns generation assets totaling 772.8 MW  of installed capacity.
Forty percent (310 MW) of this capacity in three thermal plants was concessioned in 1996
by provincial decree 2413/94 ratified by law 8430/94. The plants will be included in the
new privatization package with the transference to the new owners taking place at the end
of the concession period (2006).
Thermal Plant              Capacity   Location    Type
Gobernador A. Zanichelli     216 MW       Pilar      TV 2 x 33 +2 x 75MW
Las Playas__                   48      Villa Maria        TG 3x16 MW
General Levalle                46      Gral Levalle       TG 2x23MW
3.    EPEC still controls 462.8 MW of installed capacity of which 177.48 (40 percent) is
hydro and the remaining is thermal (mainly open cycle gas turbines). Hydro generated
power comes from ten small dams owned and operated by EPEC.
Hydro-Plant  Capacity  Turbines   Year Built
Fitz Simon    10.8 MW       3        1943
Cassffousth    17.28        3        1953
B. Reolin      38.40        3        1967
Piedras Moras    6.30       1        1995
La Vina        16.00        2        1959
San Roque      24.00        4        1959
La Calera       5.00        4        1912
Cruz del Eje    1.20        2        1958
Los Molinos I   54.00       4        1958
LosMolinos II   4.50        1        1958
Total          177.48
All are multi purpose dams (irrigation, flood control, human consumption) in this province
which often faces water scarcity, with electricity generation being the last priority. These
plants have averaged between a maximum of 750 TWh (1992) and a minimum of 350 TWh
(1995) of electricity generated per year. A central pumping station on the Rio Grande
River (with an additional 750 MW of capacity) is being transferred to the province from the



federal government and the province is now seeking legislation authorizing its
concessioning.
4.    EPEC owns and operates four thermal plants with a total installed capacity of 276
MW. These plants are relatively inefficient. Most of the economic value of these plants is
associated with their strategic location, as the plants themselves will have to be refitted or
even replaced.
Thermal Plant     Capacity     Type    Year Built
Dean Funes         65 MW     TV - TG      64 - 71
Sud Oeste           140         TG        81 - 83
Las Ferias           32         TG        74 - 75
San Fransisco        39         TG        75 - 81
Total               276
Electricity Distribution
5.    With over 600,000 customers and 3760 Gwh of energy sold in 1998, EPEC is the
fourth largest distribution company in Argentina and the second largest still under state
control. Two thirds of the population is served directly by EPEC, largely in urban areas,
with the remaining third serviced by 209 cooperatives that buy electricity at wholesale
prices from EPEC.
EPEC's Ranking by Indicators of Operational Efficiency
Indicator                EPEC Rank             percent efficiency of
highest rank company
Users per employee               19                    500
Energy per employee              16                     300
Energy losses                 21                     257
Average distribution tariff         13                    100
6.    Despite several operational improvements in recent years, including an impressive
increase in labor productivity of 9 percent per annum since 1992, the operational
performance of EPEC remains in the lower 50 percent of all distribution companies in
Argentina. Its ranking amongst the 23 distribution companies considered is particularly
low for energy losses (21) and users per employees (19), implying significant scope for
efficiency gains. In terms of tariffs, these have been falling relative to federal companies
with progressive rebalancing over different consumer categories over the last couple of
years. This has been caused in part by the fact that the federal sector reforms now allow
large buyers to buy directly from the wholesale market, which has compelled EPEC to
reduce tariffs for large customers and eroded its base for cross-subsidies. The reduction in



tariffs has also impacted its financial situation, as net sales revenues have remained
stagnant despite the fact that total energy sales increased at 4.3 percent per annum during
1990-98.
Privatization Plans
7.    Final privatization options will be developed by strategic consultants currently
being hired. However, the Government anticipates privatizing/concessioning all generation
capacity as a single package, including the currently concessioned plants. Given that
generation is governed by federal rules for the highly competitive Argentine wholesale
market and that the installed capacity of EPEC is well under 10 percent of the national
installed capacity, privatization as a single package is not expected to negatively affect
competition nationally. The privatization process will be carried out in line with Bank
procurement rules. The Government is also creating a provincial public utilities agency to
regulate the electricity sector.
Environment
8.    Thermal generation in Argentina is under federal regulation in all environmentally
related matters. The National Electricity Regulatory Agency (ENRE--Ente Nacional
Regulador de la Electricidad) enforces environmental rules for thermal generation,
including periodic onsite reviews and audits of all thermal generation units. ENRE has
confirmed that EPEC plants are meeting national environmental standards (and the ENRE
reports have been reviewed by the Bank) ENRE oversight would continue in the future.
Environmental audits will be completed prior to any sale or concession of EPEC assets and
winning bidders will be required to commit contractually to prepare a time-bound
environmental impact remediation plan as warranted. The C6rdoban authorities have also
confirmed that (i) there is no intention to sell land owned by EPEC in excess of that
immediately pertaining to the thermal plant; and (ii) provisions have been made to maintain
the current "lifeline" tariff structure which provides at low cost a threshold level of
electricity to poor consumers. Indeed the Government expects that increased efficiency and
competition will permit electricity costs to fall especially in rural areas.
9.    Hydro generation is under C6rdoba government jurisdiction given provincial
responsibility in Argentina over water use. The provincial Water and Sewer Agency
(DiPAS--Direccion Provincial de Agua y Saneamiento) is the authority in charge of use of
water and dam security. As such the hydro plants (in fact just the turbines and not the dam
per se) will be concessioned rather than sold because of the need to maintain provincial
control over water. Federal concessions have explicitly included in the contracts clauses
that give priority for water uses other than generation. Such clauses, for example, indicate
that orders from the central electricity dispatch headquarters should be ignored by the
generating company if it would result in violation of minimum or maximum water outflow
restrictions. Similar clauses will be included in the concessioning contracts in C6rdoba.



Annex E
Documents in the Project File
1. Argentina: Strengthening of Tax Administration in the Province of C6rdoba; IMF,
1999
2. Analysis of the Public Sector of the Province of C6rdoba; Volumes I & II, Ercilia
Nofal et. al., 2000
3. Provincial Bank of C6rdoba-Analysis of Economic and Financial Prospects,
Roberto Dominguez, 2000
4. Cordoba for the New Century, Government of C6rdoba, 1999
5. Pact on Quality Education in C6rdoba, Governnent of C6rdoba, 2000
6. Law 8835---"Charter of Citizens", 2000
7. Law 8836---"Modernization of the State", 2000
8. Law 8837---"Incorporation of Private Capital into the Public Sector", 2000
9. Clean Up Pact (Municipalities of C6rdoba), Government of C6rdoba, 1999
10. Reform Programn for Primary Health Care, Government of C6rdoba, 2000
11. Education: Archive of Studies and Reports, Government of C6rdoba, 2000
12. A Primer on Argentine Politics and Federal-Provincial Relations*, Jeffrey Rinne,
2000
13. C6rdoba: Public Sector Modernization Loan, IDB, 2000
14. Argentina Provincial Finances Study-Selected Issues in Fiscal Federalism*, IBRD,
1996
15. Argentina C6rdoba-Evaluation of the Public Sector, Proposals for Reform, IBRD,
1996
16. Pension Expenditures in the Province of C6rdoba, Fabio Bertranou, 2000
17. Overview of Federal-Provincial Revenue*-Sharing, IBRD, 2000
18. Overview of the Argentine Provinces*, IBRD, 2000
19. Overview of Argentine Provincial Debt*, IBRD, 2000
* In English, otherwise in Spanish.



Annex F - Argentini
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date 10123/200C
..'' Projects 71
Active Proiects                                                                                                                       Difference Between
Last PSR                                                       Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating bI               Original Amount in USS Millions   Disbursements'
Project ID    Project Name                                     Development Implementation    FY         IBRD      IDA       GE  Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig. Frm Rev'd
Objectives    Prog7ressa
P044447       AR Catamarca Provincial Reform                                                2001        70.7        0        0       0       70.7        0
P057449       AR State Modemization                           S                   S         1999        30.3        0        0        0      26.6      21.6
P043418       AR-AIDS AND STD CONTROL                         U                  S          1997          15        0        0       0        3.5      2.9
P058526       AR-DRUG PREVENTION (LIL)                        S                   S         1999         4.8        0        0       0        4.7      2.5
P063388       AR-HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE UNINSURED           S                   S         2000         4.9        0        0        0       4.9       1.6
P045687       AR-HEALTH INSURANCE TA                          S                   S         1996          25        0        0       0        0.7      0.7
P034091       AR-HIGHER ED. REFORM                            S                   S          1996        165        0        0        0      73.2      73.2
P006059       AR-MATERNAL & CHILD HLTH & NUTRITION 2          S                   S         1997         100        0        0        0      56.6      -0.4
P006030       AR-PROV. HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT              S                   S         1996       101.4        0        0        0      42.9      41.2
P055482       AR-PUB. HLTH. SURV. & DISEASE CONTROL           S                   S         2000        52.5        0        0        0      52.5      8.8
P005992       AR-SECONDARY ED 1                               S                   S         1995         190        0        0    21.3       26.3     47.6
P006057       AR-SECONDARY ED. 2                              S                   S         1996       115.5        0        0       0       68.2      60.9
P050714       AR-SECONDARY EDUCATION 3                        S                   S         1998         119        0        0        0      21.8      20.5
P049269       AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 3                          S                   S         1998         284        0        0        0      72.3      72.3
P006058       AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 4                          S                   S         1999        90.8        0        0        0      75.5      12.5
P039584       B.A.URB.TSP                                     S                   S         1997         200        0        0        0     140.9      72.9
P039787       BIODIVER.CONSEV PROJ                            S                   S         1998           0        0      10 1       0       8.4      -0.2
P055935       EL NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT                 S                   S         1998          42        0        0        0      32.9      32.9
P006052       FLOOD PROTECTION                                S                   S          1997        200        0        0        0     162.4    102.4
P006040       FORESTRY/DV                                     S                   S         1996          16        0        0        0       7.9       3.4
P057473      INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL                                           2001           5        0        0        0         5        0
P006055       MINING SCTR DEVT                                HS                 HS         1996          30        0        0        0       1.8       0.5
P050713       MODEL COURT DEV.                                S                   S         1998           5        0        0        0       4.2       3.6
P006060       MUNIC DEVT II                                   HS                 HS         1995         210        0        0        0        66      -52
P040808       N.FOREST/PROTC                                  S                   S         1997         19.5       0        0        0      13.5      -0.9
P052590       NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT                             S                   S         1998         450        0        0        0     262.9      163
P046821       PENSION TA                                      S                   U         1997          20        0        0        0       8.8        8
P006050       POLLUTION MGT.                                  S                   S         1998          18        0        0        0      17.6      10.3
P006010       PROVAGDEVTI                                     S                   S         1997         125        0        0        0     116.2       33
P006018       PROV DEVT II                                    S                  HS         1995         225        0        0        0      80.7      -1.4
P005980       PROV ROADS                                      S                   U          1997        300        0        0        0     264.1    172.1
P037049       PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                               S                   S          1996         16        0        0      5.5       7.3      12.8
P005920       REDUCTION OF OZONE D                            S                   S          1997          0        0       25        0      13.4      -8.3
P045048       RENEW.ENERGY R.MKTS                             S                              1999          0        0       9.3       0         9       2.5
P006043       RENEW.ENERGY R.MKTS                             S                   S          1999         30        0        0        0      29.1       3.7
P005968       SEGBA V                                         U                   U         1987         276        0        0        0      30.9      30.9
P006041       SMALL FARMER DV.                                S                   S          1998         75        0        0        0      42.1      23.1
P055461       SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS                             HS                  S          1999         10        0        0        0       7.3       4.8
P062992       SPEC REPURCHASE                                 8                   5          1999        505        0        0        0       500        0
P057459       Sustainable Fisheries Management Project                                      2001           5        0        0        0         5        0
P006046       WATER SCTR RFRM                                 S                   S          1999         30        0        0        0        30       9.5
Result                                                                                      Result    4181.4        0      44.4    26.8    2467.5    987.2
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



ANNEX G
Argentina at a glance                                                               9/12/00
Latin    Upper.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Argentina   & Carib.  income      Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                      36.6       509       573                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  7,600      3,840     4,900
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                    277.9      1,955     2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%6)                                       1,3        1.6       1A4
Labor force (%)                                       2.1        2.5       2.1     GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  18
Urban population (I% of total population)              90        75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       73        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,00 live bi,ths)                19        31        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              2         8         7                Access to safe water
Access to improved water souroe (96 of population)     65        75        78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15t)                    3        12        10
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoolage population)  t11       113       109        -Argentina
Male                                                111         ..        ..             Upper-middle-income group
Female                                              1 t t       ..        ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                          69.3    76.6       298.1     282.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP               25.9    15.S        19.9      19.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP           &65      13.1       10.4       9.8                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  26.0    22.0        17.4      17.4
Gross national savings/GDP                  25.2     13.6       15.1      14.8
Current account balance/GDP                  -0.8    -1.7       -4.8      -4,3     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        1.4      2.0        2.4       2.8     Dmesini                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                              30.2    85.6        47.1      51.2     Savings                      nvte
Total debt service/exports                  22.7     36.4       52,8      69.6
Present value of debt/GDP                      .        ..      50.5
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..    410.1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 -0,4     5.0      3.9       -3.1       3.8        -     Argentina
GNP per capita                     -2.4      4.1      2.4       -4,1       2.9              Upper-middle-income group
Exportsof goods and services        2.5      8.9     10.1       -t1        4,1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989       1998      1999     Growth of investmnent and GDP()
(% of GDP)                                                                         20
Agrculture                                   7.8       9.6       5.7       4.6    20
Industry                                    44.0     42.3       28.7      28.3    10
Manufacturing                              32.7     30.9      19.1      18.2      c
Services                                    48.2     48.0       65.6      67.1    -10                96   97   sa
Private consumption                         63.0     73.5       70.7      69.7    -20
General government consumption              11.0      4.5       11.9      12.9             -GDI            0  GDP
Imports of goods and services                6.3      6.6       12.9      11.5
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   0.5      4.0      10.3      -0.5    30
Industry                                    -1.2      4.6        3.2      -5.1    20
Manufacturing                              -0.9      3.6       1.6      -6.9
Services                                     0.5       5.0       4.7      -1.4    10
Private consumption                            ..     3.8       12.1      -4.2     o
General government consumption                ..      1.3       -1.1       1.2       .    94W w9S 97   9Ss
Gross domestic investment                   -4.6       9.3       6.6      -7.6   -'       
Imports of goods and services                -5.4    19.6        6.4    -11.2            -     Exports     0  Impons
Gross national product                       -1.0      5.4       3.5      -3.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      15
Consumer prces                             159.5  3,066.3       0.9     -2.2    10
Implicit GDP deflator                      147.4  3,057.6     -2.0      -212
Government finance o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                 96
Current revenue                              8.0    15.5       18.8     19.3     s
Current budget balance                       3.7    -3.5      -0.3      -1.5            -    GDP deflator --CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     -1.4    -6.3       -1.4     -1.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   9,656    26,441    23,315    35,000
Food                                        ..   1,016      3,056    2,428    28,000
Meat                                        ..    716        836       653      ,000
Manufactures                                 ..   3,186    17,387   15,082    21,000
Total imports (cif)                           .    4,230    31,404   25,538    14,000*      i i i I           I    i
Food                                        ..       ..        ..      466
Fuel and energy                              ..    389       852       674      7.00*
Capital goods                                ..   1,450    15,649    11,909       o
93  94  9s  96  97  9a  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..        92       80
Import price index (1995=100)                          .        92       85                 mExports     mImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              .       101        94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(UIS$ millions)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                  9,176   11,759    31,123   27,758     o
Imports of goods and services              8,773    6,254    38,568   32,557
Resource balance                            403    5,505    -7,445   -4,799
.2
Net income                                 -973  -6,818  -7,335  -7,847                 I   'lu             ll'
Net current transfers                        26        8       388       394
Current account balance                     -544   -1,305   -14,392  -12,252    e4
Financing items (net)                        ..    107    10,954   11,051
Changes in net reserves                       ..   1,198      3,438    1,201     ^
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..  10,814    24,906   26,407
Conversion rate (DEC, loca11US$)         2.79E-8  4.23E-2       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      20,942   65,618   140,489  144,657
IBRD                                      367    2,281     7,417    8,591                        A 7,417
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                             C: 5,442
G. 30,956    _   _        D: 1,705
Total debt service                         2,251    4,385    19,690   23,571                                  E: 7,400
IBRD                                       59      417       725      998
IDA                                         0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                        \                    |
Official grants                            -2       54        31         6
Official creditors                        233      660     2,072    1,538
Private creditors                       4,334    -732      9,527    2,882
Foreign direct investment                 206    1,028     6,150   11,120
Portfolio equity                            0        8        50   -2,093                           F. 87.569
Wordd Bank program
Commitments                                96       35      3,815      132     A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              39      316     2,029    1,573      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                       24      221       350      445      c - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                   15       96      1,678    1,128   1
Interest payments                          36      196       375      553.
Net transfers                             -21    -101       1,304      575
Development Economics                                                                                            9/12/00






IBRD 29500
W  >    ?    BOLIVIA                       K                                                                5                         2W
j 2                i 'Ks PARAGUAY\
 >San Sa)vadar                            ~B                                  A    I
2        '<: wSSans~~~~J,1ao              ', N~                                        B R A Z I L                  
>       o>NMuxu   /   o9C5,                                     /                                        A 
@Salta        /             '/
,rn               14 A fCD        a/
1 ,N "8.1              Ar Sy0oJU?AGQt_s sResistenciag4.        Posadas    5\O
<   /_    /  C S,< ,,0GSantiapo del Eter              orrientes    :Se
'*.u-                               T f- U-0              /      \t>f
La Rioia.
3W~ ~          \.    "Al"   S2                              FE ,s           )' ,. IF  i                       ii X  \   s.
A N ~       ~         ~          -AA
U r .            A N10            G)         inr                                                                                     0
4          8    '    Mendoza        San  JE
o           Li                                       URUGUAY
LU        <       ")                 . Ni>  y9 
oj        2       i                X J8X5          f      Buenos Airess2k  ----
\                 ~~~~~~~La Plata 
I  MEND>);                                                      N >
/ \ ~~~~r - - -~i '                              U F N (D S                 -A t L A N T I C
) J s       1      Santa osa 
R                         o B$9OtO 'i                                        A A  TL AN T
>  )  .  ~ 4   1-, /,< F)A  XMar del Platao(:
NE EU GWEN \          -                Bahia Blanca     -                                      O      E
U  "             ) ,\Neuqu6n               -- j                                                                3 C E A N
I40 .                               N  ,                                                                                                            40-
ARGENTINA
4't e'~~~- -             Puerto Madryn                                     PROVINCE AND
(H 0 < Sitoseotg CITY OF CORDOBA
Lk.
-J
a      SELECTED CITIES
A        PROVINCE CAPITALS
.  d  ,'   V  s  NATIONAL CAPAL
<  S A N                              r                             - -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
.                       7                                                  -  - -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ef CRUZ f                                  . FALKLANDS
(MALVINAS)
N 2   $oelless4   < 3         0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
P  X _,_t~~~~ ~~~~ .t -iC .oN SOS9EC      V &REC>PtfAYIEbrW Th            I
-   OMS$NDSMTS METWEN ARTOENPNKA Ni/C>, CL/MS
Wn O    NftI0vCNN ANID THEeU K WiCH ACMINisTERS  0  100    200     300    400 Mites
JIk v     i    ' ;                              This mop was produced by the Mop Design Unit of The Wrlid Book.
'>  * U sh ua I                                 The boundaries, colors, dlenominations and rnyaother informatio shown
AtR R A                      on this mop do not imply, an tho port of The World Bank drooup, cany
. DEL FUEGO                                judgmentoon the lega status of rany territory, or any endorsement ot
' ----oc oeptnm  such boundaries.
-.6                                                   50,
APRIL 1998



