Report No. PID9380
Project Name                     Argentina-Cordoba Provincial Reform Loan
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           PREM
Project ID                       ARPE68344
Borrower                         Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy.
Date PID prepared                July 20, 2000
Appraisal Date                   July 24, 2000
Proposed Date of                 October 17, 2000
Board Presentation
Background
1.              Argentina's public sector is highly decentralized.    The 24 provincial
governments are responsible for almost half of public sector expenditures,
including over 90 percent of public spending in health and education. However,
provincial fiscal performance has often been poor, as has been the quality and
efficiency of public expenditures in health and education. During the 1980s,
high inflation rates, lack of budgetary discipline, easy access to borrowing
and reliance on the Federal Government for transfers and bailouts all
contributed to persistent fiscal deficits. The situation improved in 1992, due
to the reforms that the Federal Government had initiated under the
Convertibility Plan, and a major national tax effort. However, this
deteriorated again soon after due to excessive spending by the provinces, given
their inability to manage the rapid increase in the funds transferred from the
center. The financial crisis of 1995 aggravated the critical situation of the
provinces, once again, when the pool of total public revenues fell
dramatically. In 1995-96, out of 24 provinces, only four had balanced fiscal
accounts. Most of the others faced important liquidity shortages, increased
borrowing, and accumulated arrears. While the situation improved as Argentina
saw considerable growth in 1997, it deteriorated once again as a result of the
external shocks emanating from the crises in East Asia, Russia and Brazil. The
aggregate deficit for the provinces reached an estimated $3.2 billion in 1999
(excluding privatization of $640 million) and some provinces now faced high
debt burdens.
2.              Recognizing the importance of provincial finances to macro-stability
in a federal state, provincial reform has been a priority for the Federal
Government since the early 1990s. The provinces have agreed to improve own-
source mobilization, restructure provincial taxes and eliminate distortionary
taxes, privatize public enterprises, including the provincial banks and
utilities, deregulate the provincial economy, and transfer the provincial
pension funds to the national system. In exchange, the Federal Government has
guaranteed a shared-revenue floor to each province, sheltering them from any
downfalls in revenue, and has offered to help several smaller, more deprived
provinces address their debt load. It also provided a Transformation Fund,
which helped finance those reforms and provide technical assistance and
advisory services. While a number of provinces began implementing a program of



reforms during 1993-94, it was not until the financial crisis of 1995 that a
number of provinces began to reform in earnest. The latest recession has once
again impressed upon the provinces the need to take action.
3.              The situation today is vastly different than it was ten years ago
despite the need to continue with reforms. Progress has been achieved in many
areas. Almost half of the provincial public enterprises were privatized,
including 18 out of the 31 provincial and municipal banks. Many provincial
utility services are now run by the private sector and eight provinces have
transferred their pension funds to the national government. The Bank actively
supported these efforts through a series of successful completed operations,
including First Provincial Development Project (Ln. 3280), First Provincial
Reform Loan (Ln. 3836), Provincial Bank Privatization Loan (Ln. 3878), and
Provincial Pension Reform Loan (Ln. 4116). All provinces are also engaged in
various ways in improving the delivery of basic health, social protection, and
education services, often with the support of complementary loans from the
World Bank and IDB.
The Provincial Reform Program
4.              By 1996, the federal government recognized the need for a second phase
of provincial reforms beyond what was already started to reorient the role of
the state and to improve fiscal management. In particular, it was seen as
highly desirable that these reforms would help the Governors to improve
efficiency in public spending, secure and maintain fiscal balance, reduce debt
stock and debt service to manageable proportions, and enhance responsiveness,
quality and equity in the provision of social services. The national
government and the Bank jointly agreed on the eligibility criteria and the
focus of the program. The loans would be available to provinces that: (i) have
introduced significant structural reforms in terms of size of the provincial
government and privatization of major public banks and other enterprises; (ii)
have accepted the transfer of the provincial pension funds to the national
system; and (iii) have demonstrated ability and political commitment to further
reforms. In 1997, the first of these loans were approved for the provinces of
Salta, Tucuman, San Juan and Rio Negro, and a new set of loans are in
preparation in Buenos Aires and Santa Fe as well as Cordoba.
Cordoba Provincial Reform Loan Objectives
5.              The objective of this loan is to support the Province of Cordoba in
its comprehensive reform program which seeks to reestablish fiscal discipline,
restructure government, and improve social sector operations so as to achieve a
more efficient, effective, and transparent delivery of public services. Since
Cordoba has not participated extensively in the earlier round of reforms, its
program covers some aspects of first generation reforms, combined with those of
second generation. The case of Cordoba also presents a particular challenge
because of its strategy to reduce taxes as a way of making the province more
competitive. The three main components of the Province's program are:
Public Finance. The Provincial Government is committed to reaching a
sustainable fiscal situation. Specific aims are to: (a) achieve a balanced
budget; (b) strengthen tax administration; (c) reform municipal finances and
debt; (d) set the government's pension system on a sound financial basis in
line with national policies; and (e) incorporate private capital into banking
and electricity distribution to improve services and reduce the burden on the
- 2 -



province's fiscal position. These fiscal objectives are to be achieved while
protecting spending for vital social services and reducing tax rates in order
to better promote investment needed for increased growth in Cordoba.
Public Administration. An important complement to the government's longer
term goals of fiscal stability and economic growth is to improve the
efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency of government services to citizens.
This will be attained through a series of activities relating to government
financial management, increasing transparency and accountability, and reforms
in human resource management.
Social Sectors. Efficient and effective health care, education, and
protection for the poorest citizens are necessary investments to strengthen
Cordoba's competitive position and better meet the needs of its people.
Programmatic policy reforms will be pursued in all these sectors. The
education program for the coming years involves a series of actions to generate
improvements in administrative efficiency and education quality. Selected
reforms include actions to allow for class consolidation, control of
absenteeism, reduction of overhead costs, conversion of public teacher training
institutions; and new subsidies systems for the private schools. In health the
provincial strategy is oriented towards ensuring the coverage of the
population, particularly uninsured indigents, with a package of public health
benefits and personalized medical care; improving the population's choices;
ensuring the financial feasibility, efficiency and quality of the public health
system; and modernizing the role of the Ministry of Health. Efforts will also
be undertaken to strengthen the government's social protection programs in
order to provided greater stability in resource flows, equity, and improvements
in selected social indicators.
6.              Borrower and Loan Amount. The borrower of the loan would be the
Argentine Republic, which would on-lend the proceeds of $300 million on the
same terms to the Province of Cordoba. The loan would disburse in several
tranches the size and amount of which are still to be determined. The first
tranche would be conditioned on Board approval (effectiveness) and subsequent
positive evaluations of the compliance of provinces with reform actions agreed
during negotiations. While the formal tranche-release actions will be limited
to key measures, the full program of the province will be detailed in a Letter
of Provincial Reform.
Environmental Aspects
7.              Although this type of operation is not formally subject to an
environmental rating, the Provincial authorities will conduct an environmental
audit of the inclusion of private capital in the electricity distribution
system.
Benefits and Risks
8.              Benefits.   The main benefit of the loan would be improved public
finances, a strengthened provincial competitive position, better public
services to citizens, and a series of reforms in education, health, and social
assistance consistent with budgetary constraints.
9.              Risks.   Risks include the reversibility of some of the reforms in case
of political changes or a deterioration in the macroeconomic environment.
-3 -



However, the program is designed to be fully implemented during the early years
of the provincial administration's four-year term. One advantage of the
proposed operation is the very high level of engagement and leadership by the
Governor of the Province. This has proven to be a success factor in previous
provincial operations. He was closely involved in preparation activities, has
obtained comprehensive legislation supporting the program, and his government
has already initiated several reforms. Experience suggests that strong
political commitment and the general acceptance of the need for policy reforms
(i.e., fiscal discipline, privatization, decentralization) have enabled the
provinces to sustain their reform efforts even during the current economic
downturn. A further risk involves fiscal performance relating especially to
the Province's ability to meet revenue collection targets despite reductions in
selected tax rates. A vigorous effort to improve tax administration has
already begun and the authorities believe this, along with positive supply side
responses, will offset the rate changes.
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
10.             The Bank has worked with the IMF in the design of adjustment
operations in Argentina, in formulating country strategy, and in economic and
sector work. The IMF shares the concern regarding the need to improve the
fiscal situation of many provinces. The IDB has co-financed the Public Sector
Reform Loan, Provincial Development I and the Provincial Bank Privatization
Loan, and is preparing a separate loan in Cordoba which would complement the
proposed World Bank project.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 4, 2000.
- 4 -



