Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4585-AR
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Reform Loan -- Córdoba)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 17, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4585-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 2001, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank):
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated October 18, 2000, from the 
Argentine Republic’s Province of Córdoba (the Province) describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve adjustment of the public 
finances, public administration and social sector of the Province (hereinafter called 
the Program), declaring the Province’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has indicated to the Bank that the actions and conditions 
set forth in the Program and in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement, described therein 
as agreed between the Province and the Bank, are consistent with the Borrower’s 
national policy framework regarding provincial reforms, which policy (without 
mandating specific numerical targets) encourages provinces of the Borrower to, inter 
alia:  (i) achieve and maintain balanced provincial public sector budgets; (ii) 
decrease the ratio of provincial public sector personnel expenditures to provincial 
public sector current revenues; (iii) maintain or decrease the ratio of provincial 
public sector debt stock to provincial public sector current revenues; (iv) not incur 
debt to finance provincial public sector current expenditures except under certain 
limited circumstances; (v) in general improve their provincial public sector fiscal, 
financial, accounting and budgetary discipline in a manner consistent with their 
constitutions; (vi) participate in the National Public Investment System (Sistema 
Nacional de Inversión Pública); and (vii) in a manner consistent with national 
policies, achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness with regard to provincial 
public expenditures, particularly in the health and education sectors, all in an 
effort to widen the scope and increase the quality of provincial participation in said 
Page  2
sectors for the benefit of underprivileged segments of the population;
(C)
the Borrower has expressed its commitment to lend to and for use by the 
Province funds in local currency in amounts equivalent to the Loan amounts disbursed 
by the Bank; and
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Province by making the Loan 
to the Borrower in three tranches as hereinafter provided, thus allowing the Borrower 
to lend to the Province the funds in local currency referred to above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read as follows in its 
entirety:
"‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"First Tranche" means the portion of the Loan, not exceeding $103,000,000 
(including the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement), to be released by 
the Bank to the Borrower (or paid by the Bank to itself in the case of said fee) upon 
compliance with the effectiveness conditions set forth or referred to in Sections 5.01 
and 5.02 of this Agreement and Sections 12.01 and 12.02 of the General Conditions;
(c)
"Floating Tranche" means the portion of the Loan, not exceeding 
$100,000,000, to be released by the Bank to the Borrower upon compliance with the 
conditions set forth or referred to in Sections 2.02 (d) (i) and 2.02 (d) (ii) of this 
Agreement;
(d)
"Floating Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends 
the Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Sections 2.02 (d) (i) and 2.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement have been met;
Page  3
(e)
"Subloan Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and the 
Province, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby, inter alia, the Borrower agrees to lend 
to the Province funds in local currency, in amounts equivalent to the amounts of the 
Loan disbursed by the Bank and on terms identical to those indicated for the Loan in 
Sections 2.03 through 2.08 of this Agreement;
(f)
"Third Tranche" means the portion of the Loan, not exceeding 
$100,000,000, to be released by the Bank to the Borrower upon compliance with the 
conditions set forth or referred to in Sections 2.02 (e) (i) and 2.02 (e) (ii) of this 
Agreement; and
(g)
"Third Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the 
Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Sections 2.02 (e) (i) and 2.02 (e) (ii) of this Agreement have been met.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred three million Dollars ($303,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its 
central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account (except those for the amount referred to 
in Section 2.04 of this Agreement) shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.  The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be 
deposited in the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of the 
Floating Tranche unless:
(i)
the amount of the First Tranche has been disbursed by the Bank to 
the Borrower; and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank:  (A) with the progress achieved by the 
Province in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to 
the Bank; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement (all of which have been agreed to by the Province and 
are consistent with the Borrower’s policy framework regarding 
provincial reforms) have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the applicable 
conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to 
be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the amount of the Floating Tranche.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of the 
Third Tranche unless:
(i)
at least twelve months have passed since the Effective Date; and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
Page  4
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank:  (A) with the progress achieved by the 
Province in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to 
the Bank; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement (all of which have been agreed to by the Province and 
are consistent with the Borrower’s policy framework regarding 
provincial reforms) have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the applicable 
conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to 
be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the amount of the Third Tranche.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
three million thirty thousand Dollars ($3,030,000).  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Page  5
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party or of the Province, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this 
Agreement.  The Borrower shall, pursuant to the terms of the Subloan Agreement, cause 
the Province to participate in such exchanges of views with the Borrower and the Bank.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, as well as every three months from 
the Effective Date to the latter of the Third Tranche Release Date or the Floating 
Tranche Release Date, the Borrower shall, pursuant to the terms of the Subloan 
Agreement, cause the Province to furnish to the Bank for the Bank’s review and comment 
a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views, and, pursuant to the terms of the Subloan 
Agreement, cause the Province to exchange views, with the Bank on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall, pursuant to the terms of the Subloan Agreement, cause the Province 
to assist in, and provide all information required for, the preparation of the report 
referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, as said Section 9.07 (c) is 
amended and renumbered pursuant to Section 1.01 (d) and (e) of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after each 
disbursement of Loan proceeds, disburse to the Province funds in local currency 
equivalent to the respective amounts of each such disbursement (except that funds in 
local currency equivalent to the amount disbursed by the Bank to itself pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement need not be so disbursed by the Borrower to the 
Province).  Such disbursement to the Province shall take place according to the terms 
of the Subloan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
The Subloan Agreement has been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so 
as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, proper exchange of information among the 
Bank, the Borrower and the Province, or proper disbursement of local currency amounts 
to the Province as required by Section 3.03 of this Agreement, or so as to make the 
Page  6
interest and principal repayment terms set forth in the Subloan Agreement 
significantly different, in the opinion of the Bank, from those set forth or referred 
to in Article II of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(b)
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Province in the 
carrying out of the Program; and
(c)
the Subloan Agreement has been entered into.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinions 
(one from the Borrower and another from the Province) to be furnished to the Bank, 
namely that the Subloan Agreement entered into in satisfaction of the condition set 
forth in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and the Province and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Province in accordance with the terms of such Subloan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The date of October 15, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Domingo Felipe Cavallo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ariel Fiszbein
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector Leader - Human Development
In witness thereof
By /s/ José Manuel de la Sota
Governor of the Province of Córdoba
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
Page  8
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2006
through October 15, 2015
15,150,000
______________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 3
Provincial Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
Public Finances
1.
(a)
The Province has attained (as confirmed by the Borrower in writing to the 
Bank), for the period covered by any twelve continuous months among the fifteen months 
immediately preceding the Floating Tranche Release Date, a provincial public sector 
Page  9
current surplus equal to at least six percent (6%)
This six percent (6%) target 
applies if the Floating Tranche Release Date falls during the period ending on or 
before June 30, 2001; if it falls during the period beginning on July 1, 2001 and 
ending on or before December 31, 2001, the target then becomes seven percent (7%); if 
it falls during the period beginning on January 1, 2002 and ending on or before June 
30, 2002, the target then becomes eight percent (8%); and if it falls on or after July 
1, 2002, the target then becomes nine percent (9%).  of provincial public sector 
current revenues for the same period.  For purposes of this paragraph:
(i)
"provincial public sector" means all components of the provincial 
public sector (except for parastatal enterprises and social 
security entities) for which funding is allocated as part of the 
annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by the Province’s 
legislature;
(ii)
"current revenues" means:  (A) revenues from taxes; (B) non-tax 
revenues from the sale of goods and services and from property 
rentals; and (C) revenues from all federal revenue-sharing 
transfers; and
(iii)
"current surplus" means the amount by which current revenues (as 
defined in paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of this Schedule) exceed 
provincial public sector current expenditures (which expenditures 
are hereby defined to mean expenditures incurred for payment of 
personnel, expenditures incurred for the use of goods, facilities 
and services, expenditures incurred for interest on public sector 
debts and transfers for which there is no consideration, but 
excluding severance payments made to personnel departing from the 
provincial public sector).
(b)
The Province has attained (as confirmed by the Borrower in writing to the 
Bank), for the period covered by any twelve continuous months among the fifteen months 
immediately preceding the Floating Tranche Release Date, a provincial public sector 
deficit equal to no more than 124 million Argentine pesos
This 124 million Argentine 
peso target applies if the Floating Tranche Release Date falls during the period 
ending on or before June 30, 2001; if it falls during the period beginning on July 1, 
2001 and ending on or before December 31, 2001, the target then becomes 110 million 
Argentine pesos; if it falls during the period beginning on January 1, 2002 and ending 
on or before June 30, 2002, the target then becomes 96 million Argentine pesos; and if 
it falls on or after July 1, 2002, the target then becomes 78 million Argentine pesos. 
(or has attained a provincial public sector surplus for said period).  For purposes of 
this paragraph:
(i)
"provincial public sector" means all components of the provincial 
public sector (except for parastatal enterprises and social 
security entities) for which funding is allocated as part of the 
annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by the Province’s 
legislature;
(ii)
"deficit" means the amount by which total provincial public sector 
revenues (i.e., current revenues as defined in paragraph 1 (a) 
(ii) of this Schedule, plus capital revenues, minus revenues 
obtained by the Province from privatizations and concessions of 
its assets) are less than total provincial public sector 
expenditures (i.e., current expenditures as defined in paragraph 1 
(a) (iii) of this Schedule, plus capital expenditures, minus 
expenditures incurred by the Province with regard to 
privatizations and concessions of its assets);
For purposes 
of 
this subparagraph (b) (ii), capital expenditures do not 
include 
amortization costs even though such costs are 
considered to be 
capital expenditures according to accounting 
principles commonly 
applied in the United States of America. 
and
(iii)
"surplus" means the amount by which total provincial public sector 
revenues (as defined in paragraph 1 (b) (ii) of this Schedule) 
exceed total provincial public sector expenditures (as defined in 
paragraph 1 (b) (ii) of this Schedule).
2.
The Province’s principal outstanding on its public sector debt (as of no earlier 
than 90 days prior to the Floating Tranche Release Date, and including overdue amounts 
owed by the Province to its employees and suppliers, but excluding debt assumed by the 
Page  10
Province to finance severance payments made to personnel departing from the provincial 
public sector) is, as confirmed by the Borrower in writing to the Bank, equal to or 
less than seventy percent (70%) of provincial public sector current revenues (as 
defined in paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of this Schedule).
3.
(a)
In conformity with a privatization initiative approved by the Province’s 
legislature and in effect as of the Floating Tranche Release Date:  (i) a winning 
private sector bidder has been chosen by the Province (using procurement procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank) to be awarded ownership of at least fifty-one percent (51%) 
of the capital stock, and concomitant managerial and operational control, of the Banco 
de la Provincia de Córdoba (Córdoba Province Bank); and (ii) a winning private sector 
bidder or bidders (not including the winning bidder referred to in subparagraph (a) 
(i) of this paragraph) has or have been chosen by the Province (using procurement 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank) to be awarded ownership of, or a contract to 
manage, all former assets of the Córdoba Province Bank (i.e., of all such assets 
existing as of the Floating Tranche Release Date, but which are not included among the 
patrimony of said bank for purposes of the privatization transaction referred to in 
subparagraph (a) (i) of this paragraph).
(b)
The Province’s public sector budget includes a line item to which 
sufficient funds are assigned explicitly and exclusively to cover all liabilities (if 
any) of the Córdoba Province Bank that are removed from said bank’s balance sheet and 
assumed by the Province upon the transfer of ownership foreseen in paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, and such funds are in fact available for such use by the Province.
4.
In conformity with a privatization initiative approved by the Province’s 
legislature and in effect as of the Floating Tranche Release Date, a winning private 
sector bidder has been chosen by the Province (using procurement procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank) to be awarded either:
(a)
a concession to exercise full managerial and operational control of the 
Province’s electric power utility (Empresa Provincial de Energía de Córdoba), without 
excluding any utility physical infrastructure from the scope of the concession 
arrangements; or
(b)
ownership of at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the capital stock in 
said utility, and concomitant managerial and operational control, without excluding 
any utility physical infrastructure from the scope of the privatization arrangements; 
or
(c)
a combination of concession and majority stock ownership, with 
concomitant managerial and operational control of said utility, without excluding any 
utility physical infrastructure from the scope of the privatization arrangements,
with options (a), (b) and (c) above being subject to conditions, explicitly set forth 
in the relevant bidding documents, that the winning bidder commit contractually with 
the Province to prepare (within ten months after assuming said ownership and/or 
control) a time-bound environmental impact remediation plan, and thereafter carry out 
the terms of said plan, all in compliance with applicable local, federal and 
provincial environmental law (said remediation plan to take into account the findings 
of an environmental assessment, undertaken by the Province and set forth in said 
bidding documents, of said utility’s assets and activities).
5.
(a)
A power sector regulatory public agency, established through legislation 
of the Province, is fully staffed and operating with sufficient budget and appropriate 
written internal rules and procedures.
(b)
Said regulatory agency has issued and/or is applying written regulations 
on service obligations and subsidies in the power sector, including, for example:  (i) 
service pricing and performance standards for power distribution companies and power 
transmission companies; and (ii) principles for allocation of resources received from 
the Tariff Compensation Fund (Fondo Subsidiario para Compensaciones Regionales de 
Tarifas a Usuarios Finales created by Article 70 of the Borrower’s law no. 24065).
Social Sector
6.
Continued compliance by the Province with the commitments, set forth in the 
Province’s October 6, 2000 document entitled Planilla de Cumplimiento de 
Condicionalidad para el Banco Mundial en Materia de Gastos Sociales, regarding the 
budgets of its Ministry of Solidarity (Ministerio de la Solidaridad) and its Ministry 
of Production (Ministerio de la Producción), as well as (if the Floating Tranche 
Release Date falls after 2001) allocation in each of the Province’s post-2001 annual 
Page  11
budgets for said Ministries, including the budgets for the year in which the Floating 
Tranche Release Date falls, of amounts no less than those set forth in said Planilla.
SCHEDULE 4
Provincial Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
Public Finances
1.
(a)
The Province has attained (as confirmed by the Borrower in writing to the 
Bank), for the period covered by any twelve continuous months among the fifteen months 
immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, a provincial public sector 
current surplus equal to at least six percent (6%)
This six percent (6%) target 
applies if the Third Tranche Release Date falls during the period ending on or before 
June 30, 2001; if it falls during the period beginning on July 1, 2001 and ending on 
or before December 31, 2001, the target then becomes seven percent (7%); if it falls 
during the period beginning on January 1, 2002 and ending on or before June 30, 2002, 
the target then becomes eight percent (8%); and if it falls on or after July 1, 2002, 
the target then becomes nine percent (9%). of provincial public sector current 
revenues for the same period.  For purposes of this paragraph:
(i)
"provincial public sector" means all components of the provincial 
public sector (except for parastatal enterprises and social 
security entities) for which funding is allocated as part of the 
annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by the Province’s 
legislature;
(ii)
"current revenues" means:  (A) revenues from taxes; (B) non-tax 
revenues from the sale of goods and services and from property 
rentals; and (C) revenues from all federal revenue-sharing 
transfers; and
(iii)
"current surplus" means the amount by which current revenues (as 
defined in paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of this Schedule) exceed 
provincial public sector current expenditures (which expenditures 
are hereby defined to mean expenditures incurred for payment of 
personnel, expenditures incurred for the use of goods, facilities 
and services, expenditures incurred for interest on public sector 
debts and transfers for which there is no consideration, but 
excluding severance payments made to personnel departing from the 
provincial public sector).
(b)
The Province has attained (as confirmed by the Borrower in writing to the 
Bank), for the period covered by any twelve continuous months among the fifteen months 
immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, a provincial public sector 
deficit equal to no more than 124 million Argentine pesos
This 124 million Argentine 
peso target applies if the Third Tranche Release Date falls during the period ending 
on or before June 30, 2001; if it falls during the period beginning on July 1, 2001 
and ending on or before December 31, 2001, the target then becomes 110 million 
Argentine pesos; if it falls during the period beginning on January 1, 2002 and ending 
on or before June 30, 2002, the target then becomes 96 million Argentine pesos; and if 
it falls on or after July 1, 2002, the target then becomes 78 million Argentine pesos. 
(or has attained a provincial public sector surplus for said period).  For purposes of 
this paragraph:
(i)
"provincial public sector" means all components of the provincial 
public sector (except for parastatal enterprises and social 
security entities) for which funding is allocated as part of the 
annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by the Province’s 
legislature;
(ii)
"deficit" means the amount by which total provincial public sector 
revenues (i.e., current revenues as defined in paragraph 1 (a) 
(ii) of this Schedule, plus capital revenues, minus revenues 
obtained by the Province from privatizations and concessions of 
its assets) are less than total provincial public sector 
expenditures (i.e., current expenditures as defined in paragraph 1 
(a) (iii) of this Schedule, plus capital expenditures, minus 
expenditures incurred by the Province with regard to 
privatizations and concessions of its assets);
For purposes 
of 
this subparagraph (b) (ii), capital expenditures do not 
include 
amortization costs even though such costs are 
Page  12
considered to be 
capital expenditures according to accounting 
principles commonly 
applied in the United States of America. 
and
(iii)
"surplus" means the amount by which total provincial public sector 
revenues (as defined in paragraph 1 (b) (ii) of this Schedule) 
exceed total provincial public sector expenditures (as defined in 
paragraph 1 (b) (ii) of this Schedule).
2.
The Province’s principal outstanding on its public sector debt (as of no earlier 
than 90 days prior to the Third Tranche Release Date, and including overdue amounts 
owed by the Province to its employees and suppliers, but excluding debt assumed by the 
Province to finance severance payments made to personnel departing from the provincial 
public sector) is, as confirmed by the Borrower in writing to the Bank, equal to or 
less than seventy percent (70%) of provincial public sector current revenues (as 
defined in paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of this Schedule).
3.
The Province has received, during the period covered by any twelve continuous 
months among the fifteen months immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, 
provincially-collected taxes in an amount at least two percent (2%) greater than the 
amount of provincially-collected taxes it received during 1999.
4.
A system is operational, and being implemented, throughout the Province and for 
all provincially-collected taxes, to reconcile tax amounts declared and paid by 
taxpayers with tax amounts actually deposited by banks, on behalf of those taxpayers, 
in the Province’s tax accounts.
5.
A system is operational, and being implemented, throughout the Province and for 
all provincially-collected taxes, to track each taxpayer through an identification 
code (Clave Única de Identificación Tributaria; CUIT) assigned to each taxpayer.
6.
A system is operational, and being implemented, throughout the Province and for 
all provincially-collected taxes, to monitor the tax return filing and tax payment 
obligations of all large taxpayers in the Province (for purposes of this paragraph, 
large taxpayers are defined to include those with annual sales (net of value added 
tax) greater than 2.4 million Argentine pesos, those with more than fifty employees, 
and those who act as provincial tax withholding agents).
7.
The provincial tax audit plan set forth in the Province’s October 6, 2000 
document entitled Plan de Auditoría Anual 2001 is being implemented by the Province in 
accordance with such plan’s terms (or, if the Third Tranche Release Date occurs after 
2001:  (a) said plan has been implemented during 2001 by the Province in accordance 
with such plan’s terms; and (b) the number of tax audits carried out by the Province 
after 2001 (on a per annum basis) is no less than those carried out in accordance with 
said plan during 2001).
8.
A system is operational, and being implemented, throughout the Province and for 
all provincially-collected property (realty and personalty) taxes, to identify 
property owners in the Province using an identification code (Clave Única de 
Identificación Tributaria; CUIT) assigned to each taxpayer.
9.
At least sixty-six percent (66%) of all real estate properties, for which 
transactions were recorded in the Province’s real estate property registry from the 
beginning of 1969 onwards, are indexed in said registry’s computerized data base 
according to the folio real system, whereby such properties can be found and 
researched in the registry according to their location as opposed to according to 
their buyers/sellers.
10.
No provincial tax amnesties of any kind have been declared and/or implemented 
during 2000 and onwards, until the Third Tranche Release Date (unless the Borrower has 
declared an amnesty regarding a Borrower tax applicable to said period, in which case 
the Province may declare a provincial tax amnesty to accommodate the impact of said 
Borrower amnesty).
11.
The fiscal reform action plans, referred to in paragraph 6 of the Province’s 
October 10, 2000 letter to the Bank entitled Cumplimiento de Condicionalidad del 
Ministerio de Finanzas de la Provincia de Córdoba en el CPRL, are being implemented 
for at least twenty representative municipalities (large, medium and small) of the 
Province, as evidenced at least by the signing of contracts by such municipalities 
with consultants to assist in such implementation and the beginning of work by such 
consultants pursuant to such contracts.
Page  13
12.
The cadaster modernization action plans, referred to in paragraph 6 of the 
Province’s October 10, 2000 letter to the Bank entitled Cumplimiento de 
Condicionalidad del Ministerio de Finanzas de la Provincia de Córdoba en el CPRL, are 
being implemented for at least twenty representative municipalities (large, medium and 
small) of the Province, as evidenced at least by the signing of contracts by such 
municipalities with consultants to assist in such implementation and the beginning of 
work by such consultants pursuant to such contracts.
Public Administration
13.
The Province has completed its census of all provincial public sector full- and 
part-time employees (i.e., of all employees in the Province’s legislative, judicial 
and executive branches, in the Defensoría del Pueblo and in the Tribunal de Cuentas, 
but excluding parastatal enterprises referred to in Article 3 (c) and (d) of the 
Province’s law no. 8836).
14.
At no time, between the date of this Agreement and the Third Tranche Release 
Date, have more than twenty-five percent (25%) of personnel vacancies in the 
Province’s public sector (as such sector is defined for purposes of paragraph 13 of 
this Schedule), in existence as of the date of this Agreement and thereafter, been 
filled (except to the extent such vacancies may have been filled:  (a) by employees 
transferred, as a result of the sale or concessioning thereof, from the Province’s 
Empresa Provincial de Energía de Córdoba, Banco de la Provincia de Córdoba or Lotería 
de la Provincia de Córdoba to other positions in the Province’s public sector; or (b) 
to replace active public sector teachers or active police officers who leave public 
service).
15.
The Province has completed its review of public sector employment policies (with 
the aim of identifying ways to modify wage structure and remuneration policies so as 
to allow for appropriate managerial discretion and provide incentives for good staff 
performance) and completed its uniform classification of all public sector jobs.
16.
(a)
The Province has, no later than six months prior to the Third Tranche 
Release Date, prepared (under terms of reference set forth in the province’s October 
10, 2000 documents entitled Términos de Referencia del Proyecto Reforma Administrativa 
y de Gestión del Ministerio de la Producción and Términos de Referencia del Proyecto 
Reforma Administrativa y de Gestión del Ministerio de la Solidaridad) an action plan 
to modernize administration of the Province’s Ministry of Solidarity and Ministry of 
Production.
(b)
The Province has been carrying out the plan referred to in paragraph 16 
(a) of this Schedule in accordance with its terms.
(c)
The Province has been carrying out the terms of the plan, referred to in 
paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Province’s October 10, 2000 letter to the Bank entitled 
Cumplimiento de Condicionalidad del Ministerio de Finanzas de la Provincia de Córdoba 
en el CPRL, to modernize administration of its Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de 
Finanzas), as evidenced at least by the preparation of the provincial public sector 
budget for provincial fiscal year 2002 in the manner referred to in paragraph 5 of 
said letter.
17.
The public administration managerial and staff training program, set forth in 
the Province’s September 28, 2000 document entitled Política de Reconversión de los 
Recursos Humanos y su Marco Legal en la Provincia de Córdoba, is being implemented by 
the Province, as evidenced at least by the signing of contracts by the Province with 
consultants to assist in such implementation and the beginning of work by such 
consultants pursuant to such contracts.
18.
(a)
The Province has, no later than six months prior to the Third Tranche 
Release Date, prepared and publicly announced an action plan to combat public sector 
corruption in the Province (with said plan to be based on a diagnostic of problems 
prepared with the participation of the Province’s Ministry of Justice, Tribunal 
Superior, Fiscalía General and Tribunal de Cuentas); and (b) subsequent to the 
preparation and announcement of said plan, the Province has been carrying out said 
plan in accordance with its terms.
19.
As evidence of compliance with the action plan set forth in the Province’s 
October 11, 2000 letter to the Bank regarding public sector procurement reform, the 
Province’s executive branch has either:  (a) presented to the Province’s legislature, 
for approval thereby, a bill of law (and draft underlying regulatory decrees) whereby 
provincial public sector procurement practices are strengthened through measures 
specified in said plan; and/or (b) issued decrees, as permitted by existing law, to 
Page  14
achieve the same procurement practices strengthening referred to in subparagraph (a) 
of this paragraph.
Social Sector
20.
The Province’s legislature has approved, for each fiscal year beginning after 
the Effective Date (up to and including the fiscal year during which the Third Tranche 
Release Date falls), an annual budget for the provincial public health sector which:
(a)
makes available for use in the provincial public health sector an annual 
amount equivalent to (in real, inflation-adjusted terms) at least the amount that was 
allocated for the provincial public health sector’s 2000 budget;
(b)
allocates at least nine percent (9%) of said amount to finance public 
health programs involving, inter alia, preventive and primary ambulatory health care; 
and
(c)
contains no increase in personnel salary and benefits expenditures, as a 
percent of the total budget, above the percentage that such expenditures represented 
in the provincial public health sector’s 2000 budget.
For purposes of this paragraph, provincial public health sector encompasses all 
activities financed by the Province’s Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud).
21.
An independent, external evaluation of the Province’s public sector hospitals 
indicates that, with respect to all such hospitals and for the period covered by any 
four continuous months among the six months immediately preceding the Third Tranche 
Release Date:  (a) at least eighty percent (80%) of all patient complaints have been 
formally answered by those hospitals’ Oficinas de Atención a los Usuarios (Customer 
Attention Offices); (b) for at least eighty percent (80%) of high-risk operations 
performed in said hospitals during said period, patients have signed informed consent 
forms prior to their operations and those forms are on file in the hospitals; (c) the 
clinical histories of at least eighty percent (80%) of the patients treated on an 
in-patient basis by said hospitals during said period have been recorded and filed in 
the hospitals; and (d) at least eighty percent (80%) of the personnel of said 
hospitals have been wearing their staff identification cards consistently.
22.
For the period covered by any six continuous months among the eight months 
immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date:  (a) all patients treated in all 
of the Province’s public sector hospitals have been identified, and those among them 
without insurance have been registered as such in a data base maintained by the 
Province’s Ministerio de la Solidaridad (Ministry of Solidarity); and (b) each such 
hospital has been issuing invoices for no less than one hundred percent (100%), in 
terms of value, of services rendered to patients who have health insurance or are 
covered by pre-paid health plans and has, up to one month prior to the Third Tranche 
Release Date, collected at least forty percent (40%) of the amounts so invoiced or 
initiated legal action to collect such amounts if overdue.
23.
At least two independent field studies or surveys have been carried out with 
respect to all the Province’s public sector hospitals, between the Effective Date and 
the Third Tranche Release Date, to evaluate the degree of discrimination (if any) 
against uninsured patients by said hospitals (and the results of such studies have 
been made publicly available).
24.
(a)
At least the majority of the managerial staff of each of the Province’s 
public sector hospitals have completed the management training program set forth in 
the Province’s October 10, 2000 document entitled Plan de Entrenamiento de 
Profesionales para Gestión Hospitalaria; and (b) at least ninety percent (90%) of 
amounts recovered by each of the Province’s public sector hospitals during any four 
continuous months among the six months immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release 
Date, through invoicing by each such hospital to patients or health insurance 
providers for the health care services rendered by each such hospital, are retained 
and used by each such hospital to, inter alia, fund a merit- and productivity-based 
personnel management system in each such hospital.
25.
The study on public sector hospital budget planning, carried out according to 
terms of reference set forth in the Province’s October 6, 2000 document entitled 
Aportes a la Definición de las Necesidades de Financiamiento de los Efectores Públicos 
Provinciales y Municipales, has been completed by the Province, and the Province has 
formally approved, for implementation in all of the Province’s public sector 
hospitals, a demand-based budget planning system based on the recommendations of said 
study.
Page  15
26.
Indicators, as well as initial benchmarks based on those indicators for each of 
the Province’s public sector hospitals, have been established by the Province as a 
means of measuring the performance of said hospitals.
27.
The Province’s Instituto Provincial de Atención Médica (IPAM) has prepared and 
made publicly available audited financial statements of its operations for the latest 
IPAM fiscal year that ended no later than four months before the Third Tranche Release 
Date, which statements demonstrate that IPAM expenditures are not exceeding its 
revenues.
28.
IPAM is implementing a health service delivery system based on integrated 
primary, secondary and tertiary health care networks, as evidenced by the signing, 
entry into effect and compliance with contracts entered into by IPAM with health 
service providers to provide coverage for all IPAM beneficiaries throughout the 
Province.
29.
An independent external evaluation has been completed, and its results made 
publicly available by the Province, of:  (a) the rate at which patients use IPAM’s 
health care facilities; and (b) the cost/benefit impact of IPAM’s health delivery 
system networks referred to in paragraph 30 of this Schedule.
30.
IPAM’s health care quality control unit (Gerencia de Calidad) has been regularly 
issuing, and making publicly available, findings with respect to the quality of health 
care delivered by IPAM to its beneficiaries.
31.
The Province’s equipment purchase control system, set forth in the Province’s 
October 6, 2000 document entitled Borrador de Decreto 2323:  Requisitos Mínimos para 
Habilitación de Establecimientos Asistenciales, for its Ministry of Health is being 
implemented, as evidenced by issuance of a provincial decree establishing such system, 
completion and regular updating of a publicly available census of equipment in each 
Province public sector hospital and public availability of documentation authorizing 
and detailing the purchase of each such piece of equipment carried out after entry 
into effect of such system.
32.
(a)
The Central Customer Service Office (Oficina Central de Control de la 
Atención a los Usuarios) of the Province’s Ministry of Health has completed, and made 
public the results of, an evaluation of the performance of the Customer Service Office 
of each of the Province’s public sector hospitals; and (b) user satisfaction surveys 
are being regularly carried out, and the results thereof made public by the Province, 
with regard to the performance of each such hospital.
33.
The Province is implementing an independent public accreditation system with 
respect to all private and public sector health service facilities in the Province, as 
evidenced in part by provision of easy public access to a regularly updated database 
detailing the operation, rules and outcomes of the accreditation system.
34.
For at least four months immediately prior to the Third Tranche Release Date, 
and as set forth in the action plan contained in the Province’s October 10, 2000 
document entitled Esquema de Plan de Acción para el Sistema de Seguro de Carenciados 
en el Oeste de la Provincia, the Province has been implementing the pilot universal 
public health insurance scheme in a limited geographical area, has completed a formal 
evaluation of the implementation of said scheme and has prepared an action plan for 
the implementation of said scheme throughout the Province.
35.
All personnel records of staff (teaching and non-teaching) employed in the 
primary and secondary schools and teacher training institutes of the Province’s public 
and private education system are recorded and maintained in a computerized 
comprehensive single legajo único electrónico (personnel file), with one such separate 
file for each such staff member, which files serve as the cornerstone for personnel 
administration for said education system.
36.
The Province has attained and thereafter maintained a students to teacher 
position (cargo) ratio of no less than 24:1 for public primary school Educación 
General Básica (General Basic Education; EGB) I and II levels, and no less than 15:1 
for the Ciclo Básico Unificado level (for purposes of this paragraph, a teacher 
position (cargo) is defined as each bloc of twenty teaching hours paid for by the 
Province per week, regardless of whether the teaching paid for actually takes place or 
whether each such bloc is paid for one teacher or shared among various teachers).
37.
The Province has attained and thereafter maintained a students to section ratio 
of no less than 28:1 for the Ciclo de Especialización level in public secondary 
Page  16
schools in urban areas (for purposes of this paragraph, a section is defined as a 
subject matter course taught by one teacher, so that, for example, statistically there 
be no less than 28 students studying economics under one teacher).
38.
(a)
The Province has completed a study, carried out according to terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the effectiveness of its privatized system of 
medical monitoring of public primary and secondary school teacher and staff sick 
leave, and has identified recommendations for improvement of such system.
(b)
The Province has completed a study, carried out according to terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the cost and financing of potential public 
education sector reforms foreseeable for the medium-term (i.e., for the term of three 
to five years after the date of this Agreement).
39.
(a)
The Province’s public education system budget (i.e., the budget assigned 
to its Ministerio de Educación (Ministry of Education)), for the fiscal year during 
which the Third Tranche Release Date falls, allocates:  (i) no less than ten percent 
(10%) of all expenditures to capital investment; and (ii) no more than ninety-two 
percent (92%) of all recurrent expenditures to personnel salary and benefits; and
(b)
all maintenance and consumable school supply expenditures allocated by 
said budget to public primary and secondary schools are self-administered by said 
schools, exercising their own decentralized spending authority.
40.
The Province has attained, and thereafter maintained, a level of Province public 
school teacher absenteeism for EGB I, II, Ciclo Básico Unificado and Ciclo de 
Especialización levels, equal to no more than eighty percent (80%) of the level 
experienced during 2000.
41.
(a)
Completion of the evaluation, carried out by the Province under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the Province’s performance under Borrower 
national education programs, as well as public dissemination by the Province of the 
results of said evaluation; and
(b)
dissemination to all of the Province’s public and private primary and 
secondary schools of the national school performance assessment (Operativo Nacional 
Educativo) for said schools, as well as of the comparison of such assessment results 
with public education indicators from Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development member countries).
42.
(a)
Operation, in at least 400 of the Province’s public primary and/or 
secondary schools, of a student performance monitoring system that tracks each 
student’s socio-economic background, school performance and attendance on a regular 
basis; and (b) reduction in dropout rates by at least twenty-five percent (25%) and 
repetition rates by at least twenty-five percent (25%) in said 400 schools (as 
compared to such rates for said schools for the 1999 school year.
43.
(a)
Completion by the Province of an evaluation of each publicly-administered 
teacher training institute (Instituto de Formación Docente) operating in the Province 
(as well as of each such privately-administered institute that receives subsidies from 
the Province), according to guidelines referred to in Article 2 of Resolution no. 
161/99 of the Province’s Ministry of Education; (b) granting of accreditation by the 
Province to those among such evaluated institutes which so qualify according to said 
guidelines; and (c) public dissemination by the Province of the results of such 
evaluations, of the list of accredited institutes and of the list of those evaluated 
institutes which have not been accredited.
44.
(a)
Completion by the Province of an evaluation of at least thirty percent 
(30%) of privately-administered primary and secondary schools operating in the 
Province that receive subsidies from the Province, according to guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank
for evaluating such schools and determining their subsidy 
levels; (b) public dissemination by the Province of the results of such evaluations; 
and (c) adjustment by the Province of subsidies given to such evaluated schools, 
according to the results of such evaluations and to the terms of such guidelines.
45.
Continued compliance by the Province with the commitments, set forth in the 
Province’s October 6, 2000 document entitled Planilla de Cumplimiento de 
Condicionalidad para el Banco Mundial en Materia de Gastos Sociales, regarding the 
budgets of its Ministry of Solidarity and its Ministry of Production (Ministerio de la 
Producción), as well as (if the Third Tranche Release Date falls after 2001) 
allocation in each of the Province’s post-2001 annual budgets for said Ministries, 
including the budgets for the year in which the Third Tranche Release Date falls, of 
Page  17
amounts no less than those set forth in said Planilla.
46.
The Province has completed an assessment, according to the terms of reference 
set forth in the Province’s October 10, 2000 documents entitled Términos de Referencia 
para Evaluar el Programa Permanente de Atención al Niño y la Familia, Términos de 
Referencia para la Verificación de Resultados del Programa de Desarrollo Solidario 
para Jovenes "SOL" and Programas a Verificar por el Ministerio de la Solidaridad, of 
the social protection programs administered by the Province’s Ministry of Solidarity.
47.
At least 80,000 beneficiaries of the Province’s social protection programs 
offered by its Ministry of Solidarity have been registered in the Borrower’s Sistema 
Único de Identificación y Registro de Familias de Beneficiarios de Programas Sociales 
(SISFAM) registry.
