Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
April 22, 2003 
 
Mr. Roberto Lavagna 
Minister of Economy 
Ministry of Economy 
Hipólito Irigoyen 250 
1310 Buenos Aires, Argentina 
 
Re:  
ARGENTINA
 –
Provincial Reform Loan- Córdoba 
 
(Loan No. 4585-AR) 
 
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Dear Minister Lavagna: 
 
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Loan No. 4585-AR) dated July 17, 2001 entered into 
between the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank). 
 
In response to the Borrower’s request of March 21, 2003 to, 
inter alia
:
(a) request waivers and/or 
amendments of certain second and third tranche conditions; and (b) extend the Closing Date to December 
31, 2003, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement mentioned above, as follows: 
 
I. 
Loan Agreement
:
1. 
Whereas clauses (A), (B) and (D) are hereby amended to read in their entirety as follows: 
 
“WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated March 31, 2003, from the Argentine 
Republic’s Province of Córdoba (the Province) describing a revised program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve adjustment of the public finances, public administration and social sector of 
the Province (hereinafter called the Revised Program), declaring the Province’s commitment to the 
execution of the Revised Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Revised 
Program during the execution thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has indicated to the Bank that the actions and conditions set forth in the 
Revised Program and in Schedules 3, 4 and 5 to this Agreement, described therein as agreed between the 
Province and the Bank, are consistent with the Borrower’s national policy framework regarding 
provincial reforms; 
 
(D) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support of the Revised 
Program to provide such assistance to the Province by making the Loan to the Borrower in four tranches 
as hereinafter provided, thus allowing the Borrower to lend to the Province the funds in local currency 
referred to above;”. 
 
2. 
The term “Program”, wherever it appears, is hereby replaced with the term “Revised Program”. 
Page  2
2
3. 
Section 1.02 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Attachment I. 
 
4. 
In paragraph “(d)” and subparagraph  “(d) (ii)” of Section 2.02 the term “Floating Tranche” is 
hereby replaced with the term “Second Tranche”. 
 
5. 
Subparagraph “(e) (i) of Section 2.02” is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
“(i) 
the amount of the Second Tranche has been disbursed by the Bank to the 
Borrower; and”. 
 
6. 
A new subparagraph (f) is added to Section 2.02 which shall read as follows: 
 
“(f)  No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of the Fourth Tranche 
unless: 
 
(i) 
the amount of the Third Tranche has been disbursed by the Bank to the 
Borrower; and 
 
(ii) 
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
 
(A) 
with the progress achieved by the Province in the carrying out of the 
Revised Program; 
 
(B) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory 
to the Bank; and 
 
(C) 
that the actions described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (all of which 
have been agreed to by the Province and are consistent with the 
Borrower’s policy framework regarding provincial reforms) have been 
taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said 
exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that 
the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been 
fulfilled and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue 
to be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel 
the amount of the Fourth Tranche.”. 
 
7. 
Section 2.03 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
“Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.”. 
 
8. 
Paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
“(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, as well as every three months from the Effective 
Date to the Fourth Tranche Release Date, the Borrower shall, pursuant to the terms of the Subloan 
Agreement, cause the Province to furnish to the Bank for the Bank’s review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Revised Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.”. 
 
Page  3
3
9. 
Schedule 3 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Attachment II to this 
Amendment Letter. 
 
10. 
Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Attachment III to this 
Amendment Letter. 
 
11. 
A new Schedule 5 is hereby added to read as set forth in Attachment IV. 
 
II. 
Effectiveness
:
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating this letter in the 
spaces provided below.  This Amendment Letter will be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall 
be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of 
this Amendment Letter will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of: 
 
(a) 
one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter; and 
 
(b) 
evidence, acceptable to the Bank, that the Subloan Agreement has been amended in 
accordance with the terms of this Amendment Letter. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
 
/s/Ariel Fiszbein 
Acting Director 
Country Management Unit 
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED AND CONFIRMED: 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By: /s/Roberto 
Lavagna 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Name: Roberto Lavagna 
 
Date: 
April 24, 2003 
Page  4
4
Attachment I 
 
Loan No. 4585-AR 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“BPC” means 
Banco de la Provincia de Córdoba
,
Córdoba Province Bank; 
 
(b) 
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
"First Tranche" means the portion of the Loan, not exceeding $103,000,000 (including 
the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement), to be released by the Bank to the Borrower (or paid 
by the Bank to itself in the case of said fee) upon compliance with the effectiveness conditions set forth or 
referred to in Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of this Agreement and Sections 12.01 and 12.02 of the General 
Conditions; 
 
(d) 
"Fourth Tranche" means the portion of the Loan, not exceeding $75,000,000 to be 
released by the Bank to the Borrower upon compliance with the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Section 2.02 (f) of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
"Fourth Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the Borrower a 
notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 (f) of this Agreement have 
been met; 
 
(f) 
"Second Tranche" means the portion of the Loan, not exceeding $100,000,000 to be 
released by the Bank to the Borrower upon compliance with the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
"Second Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the Borrower a 
notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement have 
been met; 
 
(h) 
"Subloan Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and the Province, 
satisfactory to the Bank, whereby, inter alia, the Borrower agrees to lend to the Province funds in local 
currency, in amounts equivalent to the amounts of the Loan disbursed by the Bank and on terms identical 
to those indicated for the Loan in Sections 2.03 through 2.08 of this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
"Third Tranche" means the portion of the Loan, not exceeding $25,000,000 to be released 
by the Bank to the Borrower upon compliance with the conditions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 
(e) of this Agreement; and 
(j) 
"Third Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the Borrower a 
notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement have 
been met.”.  
 
Page  5
5
Attachment II 
 
Loan No. 4585-AR 
 
“SCHEDULE 3 
 
Provincial Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (C) of this Agreement 
 
Public Finances
1. 
Subparagraph (a) is hereby deliberately left blank. 
 
(b) 
The Province has attained for year 2002 (as confirmed by the Borrower in writing to the 
Bank), a provincial public sector deficit equal to, or less than, fifty percent of the provincial public sector 
deficit in year 2001. For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(i) 
"provincial public sector" means all components of the provincial public sector 
(except for parastatal enterprises and social security entities) for which funding is 
allocated as part of the annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by the 
Province’s legislature; and 
 
(ii) 
"deficit" means the amount by which total provincial public sector revenues (i.e., 
current revenues, which revenues are hereby defined to mean: (A) revenues from 
taxes; (B) non-tax revenues from the sale of goods and services and from 
property rentals; and (C) revenues from all federal revenue-sharing transfers, plus 
capital revenues, minus revenues obtained by the Province from privatizations 
and concessions of its assets) are less than total provincial public sector 
expenditures (i.e., current expenditures, which expenditures are defined to mean 
expenditures incurred for payment of personnel, expenditures incurred for the use 
of goods, facilities and services, expenditures incurred for interest on public 
sector debts and transfers for which there is no consideration (excluding 
severance payments made to personnel departing from the provincial public 
sector, plus capital expenditures, minus expenditures incurred by the Province 
with regard to privatizations and concessions of its assets).
1
2. 
(a) 
The Province has entered into a bilateral accord (
Convenio Bilateral
)
with the Borrower 
for the year 2003 (within the framework provided by the Borrower’s Decrees Nos. 2263/2002 of 
November 8, 2002 and 297/2003 of February 17, 2003 (
Programa de Financiamiento Ordenado de las 
Finanzas Provinciales
)
to, 
inter alia
,
reduce its provincial public sector deficit and attain fiscal 
equilibrium in accordance with the quarterly targets set forth therein; and (b) the Province’s legislature 
has approved said bilateral accord, and said accord is in full force and effect. 
 
Banking Sector
3. 
(a) 
BPC has employed a consulting firm, acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions, 
acceptable to the Bank (which terms include terms of reference for the diagnostic mentioned herein) to 
carry out a comprehensive financial, operational and institutional diagnostic to: (i) identify, inter alia: 
1
For purposes of this subparagraph (b) (ii), capital expenditures do not include amortization costs even though such 
costs are considered to be capital expenditures according to accounting principles commonly applied in the United 
States of America. 
Page  6
6
BPC's financial, operational and institutional strengths and weaknesses, including a review of the cost 
efficiency and effectiveness of its operations; and (ii) provide alternatives for the design and 
implementation of a time bound comprehensive plan for transforming BPC into a viable and profitable 
institution. 
 
(b) 
BPC has initiated the selection process to employ an entity to manage BPC's residual 
assets through the issuance of a request for proposals. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower’s Central Bank, through the Superintendency of Banks, has furnished to 
the BPC a letter: (i) describing the main contents of BPC’s 
Plan de Regularización y Saneamiento
;
and 
(ii) informing BPC that some of the proposed actions set forth in said plan need to be revised by BPC 
before BPC is authorized to carry out said plan.
 
Power Sector
4. (a) 
The Province’s legislature has approved new by-laws for the Province’s electric power 
utility (
Empresa Provincial de la Energía de Córdoba
-EPEC) which by-laws provide EPEC to, 
inter alia
,
enter into periodic performance contracts with the Province. 
 
(b) 
The Province has granted concession contracts to at least 50% of the private electric 
cooperatives which have the legal capacity to sign a concession contract and are registered in the 
Province’s power sector regulatory public agency referred to in paragraph 5 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
(c) 
EPEC has created and fully staffed a special environmental unit. 
 
5. 
(a) 
A power sector regulatory public agency, established through legislation of the Province, 
is fully staffed and operating with sufficient budget and appropriate written internal rules and procedures.  
 
(b) 
The power sector regulatory agency mentioned in paragraph 5 (a) of this Schedule has: (i) 
issued and/or is applying written regulations on subsidies in the power sector, including principles for 
allocation of resources received from the Tariff Compensation Fund 
(Fondo Subsidiario para 
Compensaciones Regionales de Tarifas a Usuarios Finales
 created by Article 70 of the Borrower’s law 
no. 24065); and (ii) prepared
 
and furnished to the Bank a plan to gradually adjust the structure of EPEC’s 
electricity tariffs to the structure originally designed to be applied after EPEC privatization, as said tariff 
structure is furnished by the Borrower in writing to the Bank.”. 
 
Social Sector
6. 
Continued compliance by the Province with the commitments, set forth in the Province’s October 
6, 2000 document entitled 
Planilla de Cumplimiento de Condicionalidad para el Banco Mundial en 
Materia de Gastos Sociales,
 regarding the budgets of its Ministry of Solidarity (currently Córdoba 
Solidarity Agency –
Agencia Córdoba Solidaria) 
and its Ministry of Production (currently Ministry of 
Production and Finance- 
Ministerio de la Producción y Finanzas
,
as well as (if the Second Tranche 
Release Date falls after 2001) al
location in each of the Province’s post-2001 annual budgets for said 
Agency and Ministry, including the budgets for the year in which the Second Tranche Release Date falls, 
of amounts no less than those set forth in said 
Planilla
.
Page  7
7
Attachment III 
 
Loan No. 4585-AR 
 
“SCHEDULE 4 
 
Provincial Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) (ii) (C) of this Agreement 
 
Public Finances
1. 
A system is operational, and being implemented, throughout the Province and for all provincially-
collected taxes, to reconcile tax amounts declared and paid by taxpayers with tax amounts actually 
deposited by banks, on behalf of those taxpayers, in the Province’s tax accounts. 
 
2. 
A system is operational, and being implemented, throughout the Province and for all provincially-
collected taxes, to track each taxpayer through an identification code 
(Clave Única de Identificación 
Tributaria; CUIT)
 assigned to each taxpayer. 
 
3. 
A system is operational, and being implemented, throughout the Province and for all provincially-
collected taxes, to monitor the tax return filing and tax payment obligations of all large taxpayers in the 
Province (for purposes of this paragraph, large taxpayers are defined to include those with annual sales 
(net of value added tax) greater than 2.4 million Argentine pesos, those with more than fifty employees, 
and those who act as provincial tax withholding agents).
 
4. 
A system is operational, and being implemented, throughout the Province and for all provincially-
collected property (realty and personalty) taxes, to identify property owners in the Province using an 
identification code 
(Clave Única de Identificación Tributaria; CUIT)
 assigned to each taxpayer. 
 
5. 
At least sixty-six percent (66%) of all real estate properties, for which transactions were recorded 
in the
 Province’s real estate property registry from the beginning of 1969 onwards, are indexed in said 
registry’s computerized data base according to the folio real system, whereby such properties can be 
found and researched in the registry according to their location as opposed to according to their 
buyers/sellers. 
 
Public Administration
6. 
The Province has completed its census of all provincial public sector full- and part-time 
employees (i.e., of all employees in the Province’s legislative, judicial and executive branches, in the 
Defensoría del Pueblo
 and in the 
Tribunal de Cuentas
,
but
excluding parastatal enterprises referred to in 
Article 3 (c) and (d) of the Province’s law no. 8836). 
 
7. 
At no time, between the date of this Agreement and the Third Tranche Release Date, have more 
than twenty-five percent (25%) of personnel vacancies in the Province’s public sector (as such sector is 
defined for purposes of paragraph 6 of this Schedule), in existence as of the date of this Agreement and 
thereafter, been filled (except to the extent such vacancies may have been filled:  (a) by employees 
transferred, as a result of the sale or concessioning thereof, from the Province’s 
Empresa Provincial de 
Energía de Córdoba, Banco de la Provincia de Córdoba
 or 
Lotería de la Provincia de Córdoba
 to other 
positions in the Province’s public sector; or (b) to replace active public sector teachers or active police 
officers who leave public service). 
 
Page  8
8
8. 
The Province has completed its review of public sector employment policies (with the aim of 
identifying ways to modify wage structure and remuneration policies so as to allow for appropriate 
managerial discretion and provide incentives for good staff performance) and completed its uniform 
classification of all public sector jobs. 
 
9. 
The public administration managerial and staff training program, set forth in the Province’s 
September 28, 2000 document entitled
 Política de Reconversión de los Recursos Humanos y su Marco 
Legal en la Provincia de Córdoba,
 is being implemented by the Province, as evidenced at least by the 
signing of contracts by the Province with consultants to assist in such implementation and the beginning 
of work by such consultants pursuant to such contracts. 
 
Social Sector
10. 
Indicators, as well as initial benchmar
ks based on those indicators for each of the Province’s 
public sector hospitals, have been established by the Province as a means of measuring the performance 
of said hospitals. 
 
11. The 
Province’s 
Instituto Provincial de Atención Médica 
(
IPAM
)
is implementing a health service 
delivery system based on integrated primary, secondary and tertiary health care networks, as evidenced by 
the signing, entry into effect and compliance with contracts entered into by 
IPAM
 with health service 
providers to provide coverage for all 
IPAM
 beneficiaries throughout the Province. 
 
12. 
The condition which was initially set forth in paragraph 34 of this Schedule has been moved to 
this paragraph, and given that said condition has been waived this paragraph is hereby deliberately left 
blank. 
 
13. 
The Province has attained and thereafter maintained a students to section ratio of no less than 
28:1 for the 
Ciclo de Especialización
 level in public secondary schools in urban areas (for purposes of 
this paragraph, a section is defined as a subject matter course taught by one teacher, so that, for example, 
statistically there be no less than 28 students studying economics under one teacher). 
 
14. 
(a) 
Completion by the Province of an evaluation of each publicly-administered teacher 
training institute 
(Instituto de Formación Docente)
 operating in the Province (as well as of each such 
privately-administered institute that receives subsidies from the Province), according to guidelines 
referred to in Article 2 of Resolution no. 161/99 of the Pro
vince’s Ministry of Education; (b) granting of 
accreditation by the Province to those among such evaluated institutes which so qualify according to said 
guidelines; and (c) public dissemination by the Province of the results of such evaluations, of the list of 
accredited institutes and of the list of those evaluated institutes which have not been accredited. 
 
15. 
The Province has completed an assessment, according to the terms of reference set forth in the 
Province’s October 10, 2000 documents entitled 
Términos de Referencia para Evaluar el
 
Programa 
Permanente de Atención al Niño y la Familia, Términos de Referencia para la Verificación de Resultados 
del Programa de Desarrollo Solidario para Jovenes "SOL"
 and 
Programas a Verificar por el Ministerio 
de la Solidaridad,
 of the social protection programs administered by the Province’s Ministry of Solidarity 
(currently Córdoba Solidarity Agency- 
Agencia Córdoba Solidaria
). 
 
16. 
At least 80,000 beneficiaries of the Province’s social protection programs offered by its Ministry 
of Solidarity (currently Córdoba Solidarity Agency–
Agencia Córdoba Solidaria
)
have been registered in 
the Borrower’s 
Sistema Único de Identificación y Registro de Familias de Beneficiarios de Programas 
Sociales (SISFAM)
 registry.”. 
 
Page  9
9
Attachment IV 
 
Loan No. 4585-AR 
 
“SCHEDULE 5 
 
Provincial Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (f) (ii) (C) of this Agreement 
 
Public Finances
1. 
(a) 
The Province has attained (as confirmed by the Borrower in writing to the Bank) the 
quarterly targets set forth in the bilateral accord (referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement) for the period between January 1, 2003 and the calendar quarter immediately preceding the 
Fourth Tranche Release Date. 
 
(b) 
The condition set forth in this subparagraph (b) is hereby deleted, and therefore said 
subparagraph is deliberately left blank. 
 
2. 
The condition set forth in this paragraph 2 is hereby deleted, and therefore said paragraph is 
deliberately left blank. 
 
3. 
During the period covered by any twelve continuous months among the fifteen months 
immediately preceding the Fourth Tranche Release Date, the ratio of the provincial Gross Income 
Tax:base (
Ingresos Brutos
)
is at least two percent (2%) greater than the ratio of the Borrower’s VAT:base 
(
Impuesto al Valor Agregado
)
during said period, said ratio to be determined by the Province taking into 
account a 1999 tax-base index acceptable to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The provincial tax audit plan set forth in the Province’s January 29, 2003 document entitled 
Plan 
Annual de Fis
calización
 2003 is being implemented by the Province in accordance with such plan’s 
terms. 
 
5.
 
No provincial tax amnesties of any kind have been declared and/or implemented during 2000 and 
onwards, until the Fourth Tranche Release Date (unless the Borrower has declared an amnesty regarding a 
Borrower tax applicable to said period, in which case the Province may declare a provincial tax amnesty 
to accommodate the impact of said Borrower amnesty). 
 
6. 
(a) 
At least twenty representative municipalities and communes in the aggregate (which meet 
the criteria set forth in Chapter XIII (entitled 
Entidades de Recaudación Fiscal y Gestión
)
of the Fiscal 
Agreement 
(Acuerdo Economico-Financiero y Fiscal entre la Provincia de Córdoba con Municipios y 
Comunas para el Fortalecimiento Sustentable del Regimen Municipal y Comunal -Pacto de Saneamiento)
 
entered into between the Province and the Municipalities dated December 29, 1999), have been grouped 
in one or more regional entities (all vested with legal personality), as the case may be, for purposes of  
providing tax collection services and other core public services within the jurisdiction of the pertinent 
regional entity; and (b) the Province has prepared and furnished to the Bank a program to provide training 
to said municipalities and communes on tax collection and the provision of core public services.   
 
7. 
(a) 
The Province has entered into a separate Cooperation and Coordination Agreement 
(Convenio de Cooperación y Coordinación)
 with each of at least twenty municipalities and/or communes 
pursuant to Chapter VIII (entitled 
Armonización Catastral
)of the Fiscal Agreement 
(Acuerdo Economico-
Financiero y Fiscal entre la Provincia de Córdoba con Municipios y Comunas para el Fortalecimiento 
Sustentable del Regimen Municipal y Comunal - Pacto de Saneamiento)
 entered into between the 
Page  10
10
Province and the Municipalities dated December 29, 1999) for purposes of cadastre harmonization 
between said municipalities or communes and the Province; and (b) the Province has prepared and 
furnished to the Bank a program to provide training to said municipalities and/or communes on cadastre 
harmonization activities. 
 
Public Administration
8. 
(a) 
The Province has, no later than six months prior to the Fourth Tranche Release Date, 
prepared (under te
rms of reference set forth in the province’s October 10, 2000 documents entitled 
Términos de Referencia del Proyecto Reforma Administrativa y de Gestión del Ministerio de la 
Producción and Términos de Referencia del Proyecto Reforma Administrativa y de Gestión del 
Ministerio de la Solidaridad)
 an action plan to modernize administration of the Province’s Ministry of 
Solidarity (currently Córdoba Solidarity Agency- 
Agencia Córdoba Solidaria) 
and Ministry of Production
 
(
currently Ministry of Production and Finance- 
Ministerio de la Producción y Finanzas
). 
 
(b) 
The Province has been carrying out the plan referred to in paragraph 8 (a) of this 
Schedule in accordance with its terms. 
 
(c) 
The Province has been carrying out the terms of the plan, referred to in paragraphs 4 and 
5
of the Province’s October 10, 2000 letter to the Bank entitled 
Cumplimiento de Condicionalidad del 
Ministerio de Finanzas de la Provincia de Córdoba
 en el CPRL, to modernize administration of its 
Ministry of Finance (currently Ministry of Production and Finance- 
Ministerio de la Producción y 
Finanzas
), as evidenced at least by the preparation of the provincial public sector budget for provincial 
fiscal year 2003 in the manner referred to in paragraph 5 of said letter. 
 
9. 
(a) 
The Province has, no later than two months prior to the Fourth Tranche Release Date, 
prepared and publicly announced an action plan to combat public sector corruption in the Province (with 
said plan to be based on a diagnostic of problems prepared with the participation
 of the Province’s 
Secretariat of Justice, 
Fiscalía General and Tribunal de Cuentas);
 and (b) subsequent to the preparation 
and announcement of said plan, the Province has been carrying out said plan in accordance with its terms. 
 
10. 
As evidence of compli
ance with the action plan set forth in the Province’s October 11, 2000 letter 
to the Bank regarding public sector procurement reform, the Province’s executive branch has either:  (a) 
presented to the Province’s legislature, for approval thereby, a bill of law whereby provincial public 
sector procurement practices are strengthened through measures specified in said plan; and/or (b) issued 
decrees, as permitted by existing law, to achieve the same procurement practices strengthening referred to 
in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph. 
 
Social Sector
11. 
The Province’s legislature has approved, for each fiscal year beginning after the Effective Date 
(up to and including the fiscal year during which the Fourth Tranche Release Date falls), an annual budget 
for the provincial public health sector which: 
 
(a) 
makes available for use in the provincial public health sector an annual amount 
equivalent to (in nominal value terms) at least the amount that was allocated for the provincial public 
health sector’s 2000 budget; 
 
(b) 
allocates at least nine percent (9%) of said available amount to finance public health 
programs involving, inter alia, preventive and primary ambulatory health care; and 
 
Page  11
11
 
(c) 
contains no increase in personnel salary and benefits expenditures, as a percent of the 
total budget, above the percentage that such expenditures represented in the provincial public health 
sector’s 2000 budget. 
 
For purposes of this paragraph, provincial public health sector encompasses all activities financed by the 
Province’s Ministry of Health 
(Ministerio de Salud)
.
12. 
An independent, external evaluation of the Province’s public sector hospitals indicates that, with 
respect to all such hospitals and for the period covered by any two continuous months among the six 
months immediately preceding the Fourth Tranche Release Date:  (a) at least eighty percent (80%) of all 
patient complaints have been formally answered by those hospitals’ 
Oficinas
 
de
Atención a los Usuarios
 
(Customer Attention Offices); (b) for at least eighty percent (80%) of high-risk operations performed in 
said hospitals during said period, patients have signed informed consent forms prior to their operations 
and those forms are on file in the hospitals; (c) the clinical histories of at least eighty percent (80%) of the 
patients treated on an in-patient basis by said hospitals during said period have been recorded and filed in 
the hospitals; and (d) at least eighty percent (80%) of the personnel of said hospitals have been wearing 
their staff identification cards consistently. 
 
13. 
For the period covered by any six continuous months among the eight months immediately 
preceding the Fourth Tranche Release Date:  (a) all patients treated in all of the Province’s public sector 
hospitals have been identified, and those among them without insurance have been registered as such in a 
data base maintained by the Province’s 
Ministerio de la Solidaridad
 (Ministry of Solidarity); and (b) each 
such hospital has been issuing invoices for no less than one hundred percent (100%), in terms of value, of 
services rendered to patients who have health insurance or are covered by pre-paid health plans and has, 
up to one month prior to the Fourth Tranche Release Date, collected at least fifteen percent (15%) of the 
amounts so invoiced or initiated legal action to collect such amounts if overdue. 
 
14. 
At least one independent field study or survey has been carried out with respect to all the 
Province’s public sector hospitals, between the Effective Date and the Fourth Tranche Release Date, to 
evaluate the degree of discrimination (if any) against uninsured patients by said hospitals (and the results 
of such studies have been made publicly available). 
 
15. 
(a) 
At least the majority of the managerial staff of each of the Province’s public sector 
hospitals have completed the management training program set forth in the Province’s October 10, 2000 
document entitled 
Plan de Entrenamiento de Profesionales para Gestión
 
Hospitalaria
;
and (b) at least 
ninety percent (90%) of amounts recovered by ea
ch of the Province’s public sector hospitals during any 
four continuous months among the six months immediately preceding the Fourth Tranche Release Date, 
through invoicing by each such hospital to patients or health insurance providers for the health care 
services rendered by each such hospital, are retained and used by each such hospital to, inter alia, fund a 
merit- and productivity-based personnel management system in each such hospital. 
 
16. 
The study on public sector hospital budget planning, carried out according to terms of reference 
set forth in the Province’s October 6, 2000 document entitled 
Aportes a la
 
Definición de las Necesidades 
de Financiamiento de los Efectores Públicos Provinciales y Municipales,
 has been completed by the 
Province, and the Province has prepared and furnished to the Bank an action plan (based on the 
recommendations of said study) to establish, in all of the Province’s public sector hospitals, a demand-
based budget planning system. 
 
17. The 
Province’s 
Instituto Provincial de 
Atención Médica (IPAM)
 has prepared and made publicly 
available audited financial statements of its operations for the latest 
IPAM
 fiscal year immediately 
Page  12
12
preceding the Fourth Tranche Release Date, which statements demonstrate that 
IPAM
 expenditures are 
not exceeding its revenues. 
 
18. 
An independent external evaluation has been completed, and its results made publicly available 
by the Province, of:  (a) the rate at which patients use 
IPAM’s
 health care facilities; and (b) the 
cost/benefit impact of 
IPAM’s
 health delivery system networks referred to in paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement. 
 
19 
IPAM’s
 health care quality control unit 
(Gerencia de Calidad)
 has been regularly issuing, and 
making publicly available, findings with respect to the quality of health care delivered by 
IPAM
 to its 
beneficiaries. 
 
20.
 
The Province’s equipment purchase control system, set forth in the Province’s October 6, 2000 
document entitled 
Borrador de Decreto 2323:  Requisitos Mínimos para Habilitación de 
Establecimientos Asistenciales,
 for its Ministry of Health is being implemented, as evidenced by issuance 
of a provincial decree establishing such system, completion and regular updating of a publicly available 
census of equipment in each Province public sector hospital and public availability of documentation 
authorizing and detailing the purchase of each such piece of equipment carried out after entry into effect 
of such system. 
 
21.
 
(a) 
The Central Customer Service Office 
(Oficina Central de Control de la Atención
 
a
los 
Usuarios)
 of the Province’s Ministry of Health has completed, and made public the results of, an 
evaluation of the performance of the Customer Service Office of each of the Province’s public sector 
hospitals; and (b) user satisfaction surveys are being regularly carried out, and the results thereof made 
public by the Province, with regard to the performance of each such hospital. 
 
22. 
The Province is implementing an independent public accreditation system with respect to all 
private and public sector health service facilities in the Province, as evidenced in part by provision of easy 
public access to a regularly updated database detailing the operation, rules and outcomes of the 
accreditation system. 
 
23. 
All personnel records of staff (teaching and non-teaching) employed in the primary and 
secondary schools and teacher training institutes of the Province’s public and private education system are 
recorded and maintained in a computerized comprehensive single 
legajo único
 
electrónico
 (personnel 
file), with one such separate file for each such staff member, which files serve as the cornerstone for 
personnel administration for said education system. 
 
24. 
The Province has prepared and furnished to the Bank a time-bound action plan to attain and 
thereafter maintain a students to teacher position (cargo) ratio of no less than 24:1 for public primary 
school 
Educación General Básica
 (General Basic Education; EGB) I and II levels, and no less than 15:1 
for the 
Ciclo Básico
 
Unificado
 level, both in public schools in urban areas (for purposes of this paragraph 
a
teacher position 
(cargo)
 is defined as each bloc of twenty teaching hours paid for by the Province per 
week, regardless of whether the teaching paid for actually takes place or whether each such bloc is paid 
for one teacher or shared among various teachers). 
 
25. 
(a) 
The Province has completed a study, carried out according to terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, of the effectiveness of its privatized system of medical monitoring of public 
primary and secondary school teacher and staff sick leave, and has identified recommendations for 
improvement of such system. 
 
Page  13
13
 
(b) 
The Province has completed a study, carried out according to terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, of the cost and financing of potential public education sector reforms foreseeable 
for the medium-term (i.e., for the term of three to five years after the date of this Agreement). 
 
26. (a) 
The Province’s public education system budget (i.e., the budget assigned to its 
Ministerio 
de Educación
 (Ministry of Education)), for the fiscal year during which the Fourth Tranche Release Date 
falls, allocates:  (i) no less than ten percent (10%) of all expenditures to capital investment; and (ii) no 
more than ninety-two percent (92%) of all recurrent expenditures to personnel salary and benefits; and 
 
(b) 
all maintenance and consumable school supply expenditures allocated by said budget to 
public primary and secondary schools are self-administered by said schools, exercising their own 
decentralized spending authority. 
 
27. 
The Province has attained, and thereafter maintained, a level of Province public school teacher 
sick leave absenteeism for EGB I, II, 
Ciclo Básico Unificado
 and 
Ciclo de Especialización
 levels, equal 
to no more than eighty percent (80%) of the level experienced during 2000. 
 
28. 
(a) 
Completion of the evaluation, carried out by the Province under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, of the Province’s performance under Borrower national education programs, as 
well as public dissemination by the Province of the results of said evaluation; and 
 
(b) 
dissemination to all of the Province’s public and private primary and secondary schools 
of the national school performance assessment 
(Operativo Nacional Educativo)
 for said schools. 
 
29. 
(a) 
Operation, in at least 400 of the Province’s public primary and/or secondary schools, of a 
student performance monitoring system that tracks each student’s socio-economic background, school 
performance and attendance on a regular basis; and (b) reduction in dropout rates by at least twenty-five 
percent (25%) and repetition rates by at least twenty-five percent (25%) in said 400 schools (as compared 
to such rates for said schools for the 1999 school year). 
 
30. 
(a) 
Completion by the Province of an evaluation of at least thirty percent (30%) of privately-
administered primary and secondary schools operating in the Province that receive subsidies from the 
Province, according to guidelines satisfactory to the Bank for evaluating such schools and determining 
their subsidy levels; (b) public dissemination by the Province of the results of such evaluations; and (c) 
adjustment by the Province of subsidies given to such evaluated schools, according to the results of such 
evaluations and to the terms of such guidelines. 
 
31. 
Continued compliance by the Province with the commitments, set forth in the Province’s October 
6, 2000 document entitled 
Planilla de Cumplimiento de Condicionalidad para el Banco Mundial en 
Materia de Gastos Sociales,
 regarding the budgets of its Ministry of Solidarity (currently Córdoba 
Solidarity Agency –
Agencia Córdoba Solidaria
)
and its Ministry of Production (currently Ministry of 
Production and Finance-
Ministerio de la Producción y Finanzas
), as well as (if the Fourth Tranche 
Release Date fa
lls after 2001) allocation in each of the Province’s post-2001 annual budgets for said 
Agency and Ministry, including the budgets for the year in which the Fourth Tranche Release Date falls, 
of amounts no less than those set forth in said 
Planilla
.
Banking Sector
32. 
(a) 
BPC has entered into an agreement with the entity which was selected in accordance with 
the process referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, on terms and conditions 
Page  14
14
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) the entity mentioned in (a) herein has initiated its duties and 
responsibilities as manager of BPC’s residual assets. 
 
33. 
In case the recommendations of the diagnostic referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have not been included in the 
Plan de Regu
larización y Saneamiento
 mentioned in paragraph 
3
(c) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, BPC shall have prepared and furnished to the Borrower's Central 
Bank, through the Superintendency of Banks, a revised 
Plan de
 
Regularización y Saneamiento
 (which 
plan shall include: (a) the recommendations conveyed by said Superintendency of Banks with respect to 
said 
Plan de
 
Regularización y Saneamiento
;
(b) the recommendations of said diagnostic; and (c) a time-
bound implementation plan (sequenced between immediate, medium and longer term actions)). 
 
34. 
The Borrower’s Central Bank, through the Superintendency of Banks, has furnished to the 
Borrower’s Central Bank Board of Directors, a revised 
Plan de
 
Regularización y Saneamiento 
for BPC 
acceptable to the Bank.  
 
35. The
 Borrower’s Central Bank Board of Directors has indicated (in writing) to BPC  that BPC may 
implement the revised plan mentioned in paragraph 34 of this Schedule. 
 
36. 
BPC is implementing the revised plan mentioned in paragraph 34 of this Schedule
 
in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
Power Sector
37. 
The regulatory agency referred to in paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement: (a) is 
implementing the plan referred to in paragraph 5 (b) (ii) of said Schedule in accordance with its terms; 
and (b) has issued and/or is applying written regulations on service obligations in the power sector, 
including, for example, service pricing and performance standards for power distribution companies and 
power transmission companies. 
 
38. 
The Province and EPEC have entered in a performance contract to gradually improve EPEC’s 
operational performance in accordance with the targets set forth in said contract. 
 
39. 
EPEC, through the unit referred to in paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, has: (a) 
carried out an environmental assessment of EPEC’s facilities and activities to identify any negative 
environmental impact caused by the operation of said
 
facilities and/or the carrying out of said activities; 
and (b) prepared and furnished to the Bank a monitoring and mitigation time-bound action plan to address 
any negative environmental impact. 
 
40. 
The Province has granted concession contracts to all private electric cooperatives which have the 
legal capacity to sign a concession contract and are registered in the Province’s power sector regulatory 
public agency referred to in paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  15
15
 
WB76939 
M:\ARGENTIN\Amendments\4585-AR (2003).doc 
May 8, 2003 12:13 PM
 
