Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2797 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (7) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (35%);Health (20%);Other 
industry (15%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(15%);Primary education (15%) 
Project ID 
P099010 
Borrower(s) 
BURKINA FASO 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE AND BUDGET AND OTHER 
MINISTRIES 
Date PID Prepared 
January 16, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 9, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 29, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Growth 
Burkina Faso is a small, landlocked, resource-scarce country
 of 13.4 millions inhabitants surrounded by 
economically weak neighbors which nevertheless was able to achieve robust growth and poverty reduction in recent 
years. The economy grew on average by 6 percent since 1994, among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. The analysis 
of the Bank’s Poverty Assessment (PA) indicates that economic growth has resulted in the poverty headcount 
decreasing from 54.6 percent in 1998 to 46.4 percent in 2003. Recent growth was mainly driven by the agricultural 
sector, which explains the large decrease in the poverty rate given that most of the population live in rural areas and 
thus depend on agriculture.  
However, there remains significant risks to sustaining the growth pace
 given the challenging environment. The 
vast majority of the poor in the rural sector depend on agriculture which is characterized by low mechanization and 
sensitive to rainfall variation. There are risks to sustaining the recent growth of the cotton subsector given that it mainly 
resulted from expansion of cultivated areas as opposed to higher yields. In addition to lack of rainfalls in the Sahel 
zone, the country is exposed to international price shocks in cotton due to the lack of diversification, political instability 
in neighboring countries, and exchange rate shocks as its currency, the CFA franc, is pegged to the Euro. By their very 
nature, the country is limited in how it can directly influence the occurrence of such exogenous shocks.  
Determinants of Growth
 :
An analysis based on cross-
country determinants of growth, Burkina Faso’s relatively 
stable macroeconomic environment, open external tariff policies and an economic organization which is not 
overly dominated by the state are some of the favorable conditions for growth. By contrast, a poor business 
climate, low education levels and a high share of primary commodities in exports hinder the country’s growth 
prospects. With respect to the last variable, it indicates that Burkina Faso should diversify beyond primary 
commodities to further its economic development. Analyses of growth in Burkina Faso have tended to focus other 
primary goods, but the broader literature and typical experience of high growth developing countries indicate that 
expansion into higher value added non-primary goods will eventually be critical for growth.  
 
The investment climate in Burkina Faso remains difficult.
 The results of a firms survey conducted in 2005 
indicate that the business climate in Burkina Faso in 2005-2006 is generally not favorable to private sector 
development, whatever the sub-sector. There are several negative issues which are serious in nature. The most 
significant issues are linked to corruption, an uncertain regulatory environment and application thereof, a weak 
judicial system, relatively high tax rates coupled with poor implementation, poor access to credit and lastly, labor 
market constraints. Moreover, serious infrastructure problems persist.  
 
Page  2
The PRSP targets an average growth rate of 6 to 7 percent in the medium term in order to significantly 
reduce poverty
.
Such levels of growth in the medium term will depend on implementing a development strategy 
which strengthens the country’s competitiveness, diversifies its economic base, and expands market penetration. 
The Bank has been supporting these objectives through various instruments (investments projects and budget 
support). The current PRSC supports policies and institutional reforms to improve the investment climate and 
contribute to diversifying the economy. 
 
Public finance 
 
Burkina Faso has been implementing an ambitious reform agenda since early 2000 following the adoption in 2002 of a 
consolidated action plan to improve the budget management system (Plan d’Action pour le Renforcement de la Gestion 
Budgétair
e
,
PRGB). Achievements to date include: (i) stronger budget legislation; (ii) improved resources allocation 
with the availability of a global MTEF; (iii) enhanced effectiveness in budget execution with gradual deconcentration 
of spending authority; (iv) effective budget management software (CID for computerized management of budget 
operations; SYGADE for debt management, SIGASPE for personnel and payroll management); (v) improved budget 
reporting and auditing with the introduction of an independent Audit Court. The remaining challenges to be addressed 
include: (i) Enforcement of budget legislation. (ii) Improve budget statistics. (iii) Improve the effectiveness of the 
internal audit system. The Bank has playing a key role in supporting the development of MTEF in Burkina and is also 
involved in the improvement of budget statistics (budget classification) and budget control. It is important that the Bank 
keep on supporting these critical areas to help Burkina Faso achieve a sustained and effective public finance 
management system.  
Procurement 
Procurement is a priority issue in Burkina Faso for strengthening public expenditure management, improving 
governance, transparency, efficiency, equity and integrity. The total volume of public procurement is large and 
increasing. Public procurement financed by external resources represents about 66 percent of the total 
procurement as a result of the large share of external financing in non-wage expenditures. The Bank is the 
principal partner which helps the government in that particular area through the Country Procurement Assessment 
Report (CPAR). The 2005 CPAR concluded that despite improvements in the procurement regulatory and 
institutional framework, there are still some weaknesses, including: (i) the restrictions applicable to the scope of 
public procurement; (ii) the central tender board (DCMP) being responsible for both regulating public 
procurement and implementation; (iii) the lack of an appeals mechanism
 to deal with complaints during the bidding 
process; and (iv) the lack of an adequate institutional framework to determine the nature of the faults/errors for the 
application of sanctions. These elements are in the action plan drawn up from the CPAR. The Bank uses the PRSCs as 
the mean to get the necessary procurement reforms carried out. The current PRSC supports the implementation of the 
procurement reform action plan.  
Decentralization and Service Delivery 
With the 2006 municipal elections, Burkina Faso has entered a new phase in the implementation of its 
decentralization strategy.  Following more than a decade of intense debate on which form decentralization should 
take in the country, the ne
w
“Code des Collectivités Territoriales” adopted in 2004 represents a turning point in 
the process, engaging Burkina Faso in far-reaching reforms.  The 2004 Decentralization Code foresees the 
establishment of two tiers of local governments (regions, communes) and three tiers of local administration 
branches (regions, provinces, departments).  The new Code also brings about the full “communalization” of the 
territory, i.e. the whole territory – including rural areas- is divided into local governments.  The Code also 
highlights six priority responsibilities to be transferred to urban communes. It also includes the principle that 
responsibilities and resources need to be transferred at the same time. Yet, the “Code” gives little guidance on the 
actual implementation of these transfers, and ´implementation decrees” that should provide clarifications on these 
issues have not all been issued yet. The Bank has been using the PRSC as the main instrument for moving 
forward the decentralization Agenda. The current operation supports the transfer of responsibilities to local 
government in the six priority areas identified by the decentralization Law. In addition the new series of PRSC 
will provide earmarked resources to support urban development in selected communes. 
 
Page  3
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The current operation (PRSC-7) is the first of a new series of three operations. Its objective is to complement 
Bank other instruments (investment loans and AAA) to continue supporting the implementation of Burkina Faso
’
s
poverty reduction strategy adopted in 2000 and updated in 2004. The first series of PRSC for Burkina Faso 
focused on the improving of public finance management (notably fiduciary aspects) and improvement in access to 
social services (health and basic education). The second series added to these areas the issue of growth but by 
especially focusing on reforms to further liberalize the economy (cotton sector) and privatize the management of 
key utilities (telecommunication, electricity and petroleum) as a means of accelerating growth. This new series 
will contribute to addressing three major issues. It will first contribute to accelerating growth by focusing on: (i) 
reforms to improve the investment climate; and (ii) support the preparation and implementation of an export-led 
growth strategy. Second, it will support policy and institutional reforms in education, health and water and 
sanitation sectors aiming at improving access to social services by favoring decentralization as a means to 
accelerate the provision of these services. Third, this series will continue to support policy and institutional 
reforms aiming at improving the country public finance management system.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Specifically, PRSC-7 complements several Bank Investment projects in supporting the government’s Priority 
Action Program (PAP) implementation. The government’s poverty reduction program strategic objective 1 - 
strengthening macro-economic stability, accelerating growth and improving competitiveness of the economy 
comprises 4 programs: (i) strengthening macroeconomic stability; (ii) improving investment climate; (iii) 
improving competitiveness; (iv) promoting regional integration. PRSC-7 directly supports the macroeconomic 
stability program (first program) through a partial funding of 2007 budget deficit and the second program through 
the implementation of reforms to reduce cost, time and number of procedures for enterprises creation, improve 
labor market flexibility, improve property registration and contract enforcement, etc. PRSC-7 is also supporting 
program 4 – promote regional integration- through a major reform – the adoption and implementation of an 
export-led growth strategy. 
The government’s poverty reduction program strategic objective 2: improving access of the poor to social services 
comprises six programs including: (i) access of the poor to education services; (ii) access of the poor to health and 
nutrition services and fight against HIV-AIDS; (iii) access of the poor to drinking water and sanitation; (iv) 
improvement of poor people’s living conditions: the habitat and pollution control; (v) social protection of the 
poor; (vi) women’s promotion. PRSC-7 supports program 3 -access to safe drinking water and sanitation- through 
a
reform that aims at reinforcing the institutional capacities in the sector and to introducing a programmatic 
approach (program- budget) which will help the sector mobilize resources necessary for the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals.  
The government’s poverty reduction program strategic objective 3 includes ten programs: (i) reduction in the 
vulnerability of agricultural activity; (ii) improvement and securing of access to land; (iii) intensification and 
diversification of vegetable productions; (iv) intensification and diversification of livestock productions; (v) 
intensification and diversification of forest and faunal products; (vi) intensification and diversification of 
fisheries; (vi) increase and diversification of rural people’s incomes; (viii) support to producers’ organizations; 
(ix) Labor, social security, youth, promotion of employment and professional training; (x) rural areas opening-up. 
PRSC-7 supports one program out of the ten -program 2: securing access to land through the adoption and 
implementation of a national strategy of land security. The main result to which PRSC-7 will contribute is an 
increase in agricultural revenue through higher investments.. 
The government’s poverty reduction program strategic objective 4 relates to the reinforcement of good 
governance and the acceleration of decentralization. This objective includes 4 programs: (i) reinforcing political 
governance; (ii) reinforcing administrative governance; (iii) reinforcing economic governance; (iv) reinforcing 
local governance. PRSC-7 supports latter two programs : program 3- economic governance and program 4- local 
governance. PRSC-7 supports three reforms in economic governance: (a) strengthening budget allocations 
through improvement of budget classification; (b) strengthening of budget control institutions and procurement. 
Page  4
PRSC-7 supports the local governance program through the implementation of transfer of responsibilities to local 
government.
 
The Country development objectives and the monitoring indicators which will be used to follow up the results 
achieved are listed below:  
 
List of Monitoring indicators 
 
Country Development objectives 
Selected monitoring indicators 
Consolidate macroeconomic stability 
-Annual growth rate of GDP 
-Annual Inflation rate 
Improve economic competitiveness and 
diversification 
-Annual Increase in exports to GDP ratio 
-Annual increase in non cotton exports 
-increase in gold exports 
 
Improve business environment 
-number of procedures 
-cost 
-duration 
-rigidity of employment index 
 
Improve access to water and sanitation services 
-Access to safe drinking water in rural areas 
-Access to safe drinking water in urban areas 
 
Improve security access to land  
-number of permits issued 
Budget allocations reflects PRSP priorities 
-Share of social sector in the budget 
-Education 
-Health 
-Social protection 
-
share of poverty spending in the budget 
Reinforce the control bodies for the 
management of public finance. 
-Evolution of the budget of the institutions in charge of control 
-number of control by institution (IGE, IGF) 
 
Improve procurement system 
-70% of procurement comply with the legislation 
 
Strengthen Decentralization 
- share of communes budget in total budge 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
70 
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE 
0
Total 
70 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Siaka Coulibaly 
Title: Economist 
Tel:  
Fax:  
Email: scoulibaly@worldbank.org 
Location: Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso (IBRD) 
 
