Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4352-BUR 
GRANT NUMBER H322-BUR 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 24, 2007 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4352-BUR 
GRANT NUMBER H322-BUR 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 24, 2007, entered into between BURKINA FASO 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to  
this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, 
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are 
described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant and a credit in the following amounts: 
(a) 
an amount equivalent to forty four million three hundred and fifty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 44,35
0,000) (“Grant”); and 
(b) 
an amount equivalent to fourteen million seven hundred and fifty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,750,000) (“Credit”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program, including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Association 
to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for 
finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economy and Finance  
Ministère  de l’Economie et des Finances  
03 BP 7050 
Ouagadougou 03 
Burkina Faso 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
SEGEGOUV 
 5555 
 (226) 
50-31-27-15 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By /s/ Jean-
Baptiste Marie Pascal Compaoré 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Bepio C. Bado 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
To improve the investment climate and promote exports 
(a) 
The Recipient has signed decision (
circulaire
)
no.
425/MFB/CAB dated 
 
 
March  9, 2007 which establishes a new transitory value added tax (VAT) arrears 
 
reimbursement mechanism for exporting enterprises.  
(b) 
(i) The Recipient has improved its business climate by enacting law 
 
 
no. 029-2006/AN dated December 7, 2006 which launches a special operation  
 
for the  issuing of land titles from December 15, 2006 to January 31, 2007 in Bobo 
 
Dioulasso and Ouagadougou, further extended to December 31, 2007 by  the Budget Law 
 
for 2007, thereby simplifying property registration procedures and reducing the cost of 
 
transferring property; and (ii) its employment rigidity index (as defined in the Doing 
 
Business Report) has decreased from 84 in 2005  to 60 in 2006. 
(c) 
The Recipient has: (i) pursued the implementation of the pilot land tenure 
 
 
security program in its twenty six selected provinces, as evidenced by the 
 
 
registration of approximately 3,500 land properties in 2006; (ii) prepared a draft strategy  
 
for land tenure security in rural areas; and (iii) conducted consultations through  
 
6 workshops on the draft strategy for land tenure security in rural areas,   in 
preparation  
 
for the adoption of a general law on rural land tenure 
 
 (
l
oi d’orientation sur le foncier en milieu rural
). 
To improve access to basic social services through greater decentralization and  strengthened 
institutional capacity 
(d) 
The Recipient has: (i) effectively implemented the activities described in its road  map for 
 
the design and implementation of the National Framework Program for   Potable 
Water 
 
Supply and Sanitation; (ii) allocated resources to the national agency for water and 
 sanitation 
(
Office National des Eaux et de l’Assainissement)
 for the expansion of its 
 
hygiene and sanitation program to the following four cities: Ouahigouya, Fada, 
 
Banfora, and Koudougou; and (iii) increased the  budget  of  its  General  Directorate  for 
 
Water Resources in support of the water and sanitation program.  
(e) 
To transfer responsibilities and resources to municipalities and regions, the 
 
Recipient has: (i) included in its Budget law for 2007 CFA Francs 6.8 billion  
 
for the local governments and the regions; (ii) established the institutions 
 
required to transfer financial resources to urban communities, and signed 
 
 
decree 
 
no. 2007-254/PRES/PM/MAED/MFB, dated April 11, 2007, for the 
 
establishment of the Investment Fund for Local Governments (
Fonds Permanent 
 
pour le Développement des Collectivités Territoriales
); (iii) signed Decree 
 
Page  7
6
no. 2006-209/PRES/PM/MATD/MFB/MEBA/MS/MASSN/MJE/MCAT/MSL, dated 
 
May 15, 2006 which clarified the responsibilities transferred to urban communities which 
 
include pre-school, primary school, health, culture, youth, sport and leisure; and  
 
(iv) enacted law no. 027-2006/AN dated December 5, 2006 creating the local  
 civil 
service. 
(f)  
The Recipient has prepared the draft City Contracts (
Contrats de Ville
)
which are 
 
expected to be entered into in 2007 between the Recipient and the following six main 
 
cities: Banfora, Bobo-Dioulasso, Kaya, Koudougou, Ouahigouya and Ouagadougou. 
To promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources 
(g) 
The Recipient has adopted a draft Budget law for 2007 prepared on the basis of the sector 
 
ceilings of the 2007-2009 Medium-term expenditures framework and in line with the 
 
priorities of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. 
(h) 
The Recipient has: (i) signed decree no. 2007-243/PRES/PM/MFB, dated May 9, 2007 
 
for the creation of its Agency for Public Procurement (
Auto
rité de Régulation des 
 Marchés 
Publics
); and (ii) signed decree no. 2007-267/PRES/PM/MFB dated 
 
 May 
14, 
2007 
on
the organization of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Budget, 
 
including the establishment of its department in charge of procurement 
 
 (
Direction 
Générale des Marchés Publics
), thereby implementing its action plan prepared 
 
on the basis of the conclusions of the Country Procurement Assessment and Review  
 for 
2005. 
(i) 
The Recipient has customized functional and social classifications in the budget 
 
management software with a marker to track functional expenditures and 
 
 poverty-spending. 
 
(j) 
The Recipient has strengthened the capacity of audit institutions for public finance 
 
management, and its audit agency (
Inspection Générale des Finances
)
was able to audit 
 
24 procurement bids and 14 projects in 2006. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
59,100,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
59,100,000 
Page  8
7
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable  
to the Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that 
an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal  
to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon 
such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 1 and December 1: 
 
commencing December 1, 2017 to and 
including June 1, 2027 
1% 
commencing December 1, 2027 to and 
including June 1, 2047 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I.  
Definitions 
1. 
“CFA Francs” means the currency having legal tender in the African Financial 
Community. 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  11
10 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient  
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated May 31, 2007 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications 
 
for Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  12
11 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
