 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14764

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                             Date Posted: 06/29/2015

               Country: Burkina Faso
                        Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                         Yes    No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                   3
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                   5
              Series ID: S122805
        First Project ID : P122805                                                 Appraisal                 Actual
         Project Name: Poverty Reduction           Project Costs (US$M):                       125.0                  125.0
                           Support Credit (11)
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       125.0                  125.0
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy            Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                   07/22/2011
                                                              Closing Date:             06/30/2012            06/30/2012
        Sector(s):      General   industry and trade sector (37%);  Central government   administration  (31%);  General
                        agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (13%); Agro-industry; marketing; and trade (13%);
                        General public administration sector (6%)
        Theme(s):       Other Private Sector Development (38%); Public expenditure; financial management and
                        procurement (25%); State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization (25%);
                        Decentralization (6%); Land administration and management (6%)
    Second Project ID :P117278                                                     Appraisal                Actual
       Project Name:    Poverty  Reduction          Project Costs (US$M):                        90.0                90.0
                        Support Credit (10)
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                        90.0                90.0
     Sector Board:      Poverty Reduction             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                      Board Approval Date :                                   06/29/2010
          Cofinancers:                                        Closing Date:             06/30/2011            06/30/2011
        Sector(s):      General   public administration sector (45%), General  agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                        (25%), Primary education (15%), Other industry (15%)
        Theme(s):       Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (25%), Decentralization (25%),
                        Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (24%), State-owned enterprise restructuring and
                        privatization (13%), Administrative and civil service reform (13%)
      Third Project ID :P099033                                                    Appraisal                Actual
       Project Name: Poverty Reduction              Project Costs (US$M):                      100.0                100.0
                        Support Credit (9)
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      100.0                100.0
     Sector Board:      Poverty Reduction             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                      Board Approval Date :                                   06/26/2009
          Cofinancers:                                        Closing Date:             06/30/2010            06/30/2010
        Sector(s):      Central  government   administration (35%),  General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                        (30%), Sub-national government administration (15%), Primary education (10%), General
                        water, sanitation and flood protection sector (10%)
        Theme(s):       Other Private Sector Development (20%), Administrative and civil service reform (20%),
                        Other accountability/anti-corruption (20%), Public expenditure, financial management and
                        procurement (20%), Decentralization (20%)
     Fourth Project ID :P099011                                                    Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name: Poverty Reduction             Project Costs (US$M):                     100.0                100.0
                      Support Credit (8)
 L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                      100.0               100.0
     Sector Board:        Economic Policy              Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                       Board Approval Date :                                  09/23/2008
            Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:              06/30/2009          06/30/2009
          Sector(s):      General  public administration sector (38%), Sub-national  government   administration (30%),
                          Agro-industry, marketing, and trade (16%), Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (8%),
                          Other Mining and Extractive Industries (8%)
         Theme(s):        Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (33%), Improving labor markets
                          (17%), Decentralization (17%), Export development and competitiveness (17%),
                          State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization (16%)
        Fifth Project ID :P099010                                                   Appraisal               Actual
        Project Name: Poverty Reduction              Project Costs (US$M):                       90.0                90.0
                          Support Credit (7)
 L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                22.4 (Loan)         22.4 (Loan)
                                                                                         67.5 (Grant)        67.5 (Grant)
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy              Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                       Board Approval Date :                                  06/26/2007
            Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:              06/30/2008          06/30/2008
          Sector(s):      Central government   administration (40%), General   industry and trade sector (20%),
                          Sub-national government administration (20%), General water, sanitation and flood
                          protection sector (10%), General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (10%)
         Theme(s):        Export development and competitiveness (25%), Public expenditure, financial management
                          and procurement (25%), Decentralization (24%), Land administration and management
                          (13%), Regulation and competition policy (13%)
Evaluator:                 Panel Reviewer:        ICR Review                   Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Lev Freinkman              Robert Mark Lacey      Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The overarching objective of this programmatic series, as defined in the Program Document (PD) for its initial
    operation, PRSC-7, was “to support the acceleration of real growth and the reduction of the incidence of poverty
    in Burkina Faso”. This was to be attained by delivering three core development outcomes: (i) improvements in the
    investment climate and promotion of exports; (ii) improvements in access to basic social services by deepening
    decentralization and strengthening institutional capacity; and (iii) higher efficiency, transparency and
    accountability in the use of public resources (See PD, page 28). This formulation of objectives remained
    unchanged in the PD for PRSC-8 (p. 20). However, the statement of program objectives was subsequently
    modified in each operation.

    In PRSC-9 the overarching objective was spelled-out as “support the authorities’ efforts to cope with the impact of
    the global economic downturn on the Burkinabe economy through the cotton sector and maintain the momentum
    of reforms to achieve critical developmental objectives” (PD, p. 23), while the description of three core outcomes
    stayed unchanged. In PRSC-10, the overarching objective from PRSC-9 remained largely intact (“to assist the
    authorities’ efforts to cope with the impact of the global economic crisis and maintain the momentum of reforms to
                                                                                    nd
    achieve critical developmental objectives”, p. 18), but the formulation of its 2 outcome was modified – instead of
    “improving access to basic services” it aimed at “protecting access”. Finally, in PRSC-11 the overarching
                                                                                       nd
    objective (p. 25) was restored in its original (per PRSC-7) formulation, but the 2 development outcome
    (“improve/protect access to services”) was dropped, while two others remained intact.

    The ICR did not discuss the above variations in the overarching development objectives. Both Program
    Documents for PRSC-9 and -10 implied (but not explicitly stated) that modification of the original objective was
    caused by deterioration in the global economic environment and a need to provide the government with
                                                                                                        nd
    additional support to mitigate the external shocks. The ICR (para. 8) explains the dropping of the 2 development
    outcome from PRSC-11 by its having become irrelevant as the earlier operations had already secured sufficient
    improvements in access to basic services. This explanation is not supported by the available social and
    economic data, such as the country’s progress towards MDGs. Moreover, the PD for PRSC-11 presents (p. 15)
                                                nd
    an alternative rationale for dropping the 2 outcome from the program’s policy objectives: It was done “since
    effective decentralization of fiscal resources under the PRSG-9 and PRSG-10 has not produced adequate
    results”.

    For the purposes of this Review, the list of original objectives, as they were spelled out in PRSC-7 and -8, is
    adopted as the series’ program objectives, and therefore assesses relevance and efficacy of the series in the
    relation to the objectives of: (i) improvements in the investment climate and promotion of exports; (ii)
    improvements in access to basic social services by deepening decentralization and strengthening institutional
    capacity; and (iii) higher efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources. In addition, the
    Review assesses progress towards the original overarching program objective of “acceleration of real growth and
    reduction of the incidence of poverty”. This selection of program objectives is fully consistent with the choice
    made by the ICR.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The policy reforms supported under the PRSC series were grouped in the three policy areas consistent with the
    program’s objectives. The first four operations covered all three of them, while the last operation, PRSC-11, did
    not cover the policy area II.

    (I) Improving the investment climate and promoting exports

    Measures under this policy area focused on:

    Promoting financial viability of the cotton sector: implementation of an independent audit and restructuring plan
    for SOFITEX (a major state-controlled operator in the sector); the production of certified accounts for SOFITEX;
    the contracting of a credit rating agency to provide a rating advice for SOFITEX; expanding private sector
    participation in the sector by reallocating the concessions in cotton growing areas; and consolidation of the
    price-setting mechanism for cotton to align domestic prices with global market developments.

    Reduction in administrative costs of doing business: reducing costs and time necessary for establishing a new
    business through a decentralization of the business registration center (CEFORE); the establishment of a
    one-stop shop for land titling and a one-stop shop for construction permits; establishing a mechanism for VAT
    reimbursement for exporters; strengthening the country’s business association (Maison de l’Entreprise);
    introduction of legislation on digital signatures; and adopting a strategy for public-private partnerships (PPP).

    Reduction in factor costs for the private sector: improving labor market regulations to enhance flexibility;
    facilitating competition in the freight transportation industry; and upgrading the regulatory law in the power sector.

    Strengthening efficiency of land markets: adopting a new land titling issuance law; implementing the pilot land
    tenure security program in 26 targeted provinces; and adoption of decrees to devolve authority over rural land
    management.

    State-owned enterprise (SOE) restructuring: launching a tender for management of the refrigerated
    slaughterhouse; and restructuring of three state enterprises responsible for supervision of mining and geological
    exploration and testing services.

    Reforms in mining in accordance with the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) through facilitation
    of EITI consultations.

    (II) Improving/Protecting access to quality basic services through greater decentralization and strengthened
    institutional capacity

    This policy area supported:

    Decentralization in service delivery to improve access, with particular focus on education and health: setting up
    institutional mechanisms for the transfer of resources to urban communities, including the establishment of the
 Investment Fund for Local Governments and adoption of a legal framework for the transfer of human resources;
 transfer of responsibilities and resources to municipalities and regions, including responsibilities for operating
 pre-school, school and health facilities to 49 urban municipalities; decentralization of investment funds in basic
 education; and launching operations of the Standing Fund Development of Local Authorities (FPDCT) to finance
 local infrastructure projects in four municipalities.

 Policies to improve access in water and sanitation: implementation of the roadmap to reach the Millennium
 Development Goals (MDG) targets in water and sanitation, including adequate budgeting for key institutions and
 programs; implementation of strategy to maintain new water points and transfer 25 water systems to rural
 municipalities, together with the signing of at least 2 contracts with professional operators for management of
 these systems; and decentralization of water and sanitation though the signing of operation protocols for
 management of these services.

 Institutional strengthening of subnational governments: strengthening of deconcentrated budget management
 through the introduction of software accounting modules in at least 20 urban municipalities and the establishment
 of several branch offices of the Ministry of Economy and Finance;
 Preparation of the City Contracts for management of six main cities; and publication on the Government’s
 website of 2009 and 2010 budget allocation data for all 49 urban municipalities.

 (III) Promoting efficiency , transparency and accountability in the use of public resources

 This policy area focused on:

 Strengthening national accountability institutions: strengthening capacity of audit institutions, especially the Court
 of Accounts, for independent evaluation of budget execution; making annual reports by the Court of Accounts
 publicly available; establishment of the new Budget and Financial Accountability Chamber of the Court of
 Accounts; making operational the High Authority for State Oversight (ASCE) as evidenced by the publication of
 its baseline report on the extent of corruption in the country; adoption of decrees to provide for audit of local
 governments’ accounts by a Regional Accountant (Trésorier); and launching application of risk-based
 methodology to improve effectiveness of internal audit.

 Advancing procurement reforms: satisfactory implementation of the action plan based on the 2005 Country
 Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) as evidenced by the establishment of a Regulatory Agency for Public
 Procurement (ARMP) as well as restructuring of the General Directorate for Public Procurement (DGMP);
 establishment of decentralized procurement units of the DGMP in at least three more line ministries and three
 more regions; and strengthening oversight of public procurement by the Directorate for Financial Control as
 evidenced by an increase in the share of physical spot-checks of the contracts.

 Improved budget efficiency and transparency: strengthening classification of budget expenditures to facilitate
 transition to program budgeting and allow for tracking poverty spending; strengthening the link between annual
 budgets and the MTEF; providing for effective transition to the program budget structure in two ministries; and
 publication of information on the approved budget and actual budget execution as well as on transfers to local
 governments on the Government’s website.

 The following table summarizes the breakdown of actual prior actions in the five PRSC operations across the
 above policy areas.

                                                               PRSC-       PRS       PRS        PRSC-       PRSC-
                                                               7           C-8       C-9        10          11
Investment Climate:                                              3           6         3           3           6
    -   viability of the cotton sector                                       2         1           1           1
    -   reduction in administrative costs                         1          1         1           1           2
    -   reduction in factor costs                                            2         1                       1
    -   efficiency of land markets                                2                                            1
    -   SOE restructuring                                                                          1           1
    -   reforms in mining/EITI                                               1
Access to basic social services:                                  3          4          3          2           0
    -   decentralization in service delivery                      1          2          2          1
    -    access in water and sanitation                           1          1          1
    -    strengthening of subnational governments                 1          1                     1
  PFM and accountability:                                          4          3          3          3           2
     -   strengthening accountability institutions                 1          1          2          1           1
     -   budget efficiency and transparency                        2          1          1                      1
     -   procurement reforms                                       1          1                     2
  TOTAL number of prior actions                                   10         13          9          8           8

   The prior actions were largely based on the triggers that for each PRSC were identified in the PD for the previous
   operation. There was just one case when the trigger was explicitly dropped (Revision of the Mining Code under
   PRSC-11), and a few cases of actual erosion of program triggers (for example, the removal of a specific target of
   10% for operating cost reduction in the course of Sofitex’s restructuring under PRSC-8).

   While it was initially intended that PRSC-9 would support reforms in the areas of mining legislation, labor market
   and power regulation, none of these was covered by the prior actions in PRSC-9, -10 and -11. Thus the earlier
   policy initiatives in these three areas, supported under the first two operations, were not followed-up. Rather, the
   emphasis shifted to SOE restructuring and freight transportation, where the selected prior actions had little direct
   regulatory impact and were not always adequately monitored. Despite the ICR’s statement (para. 19) that the
   policy areas covered by the series “remained largely as originally designed,” it is clear that reforms supported by
   the later operations became less ambitious.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The financing for this series came to US$505 million, including supplemental financing for PRSC-10 of US$20
   million. PRSC-7 had a composite financing of IDA’s credit (US$22.4 million) and grant (US$67.5 million), PRSC-8
   was entirely a credit, while the rest (PRSC-9, -10 and -11) were entirely grants. Overall, about 75% of total
   financing under the series were disbursed as grants. The ICR does not explain why PRSC-8 was provided as a
   credit. All operations closed on schedule.

   The series was originally envisaged to include three PRSCs (PRSC-7 to 9). The series was extended to five
   operations in two steps, in 2009 and 2010, to better align IDA budget support with the timing of the new
   government Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.

   Overall disbursed amounts were larger (by about one third) than those proposed in the respective CASes, which
   envisioned only US$380 million for these five PRSCs. The increases in volumes were driven primarily by the
   Government’s demand for additional assistance in the environment of global crisis of 2008-09 and other external
   shocks, but also by availability of additional IDA resources as Burkina Faso was ranked a top reformer among
   West African countries (based on the CPIA ratings).

   Although there was no co-financing, the PRSC support was provided as part of the single multi-year budget
   support framework (CGAB-CSLP) agreed by the Government and nine multi- and bilateral donors (ICR, para 30).



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   Rating: Substantial
   The PRSC program was substantially relevant to the objectives of both the Country Assistance Strategy for the
   Fiscal Years 2006-2009 (CAS FY06-09) and the CAS FY10-12. Both overarching objective and three specific
   objectives of the program were closely aligned with both strategic themes of CAS FY10-12 (Minimizing economic
   vulnerability and promoting growth through economic transformation; Promoting shared growth through effective
   social service delivery). They were also closely linked with 3 out of 4 objectives of the previous CAS. The CAS
   FY06-09 explicitly recognized the PRSCs as the main instrument of delivering IDA support under the strategy
   (CAS, para. 65). The series was also well aligned with the support provided by other donors through the General
   Framework for Budget Support in Burkina Faso (CGAB) (ICR, paras. 33-34). At the same time, the overall
   objectives of the PRSC7-11 were highly relevant and consistent with the national poverty reduction strategy
   (PRSP/CSLP) approved in 2004, as the objectives of Bank CASes were fully aligned with those of Government’s
   PRSP.

   The relevance of objectives was somewhat undermined by the dropping of the service delivery pillar from
   PRSC-11, despite service delivery objective still being a top priority in the CAS FY10-12.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Rating: Modest

   The causal chain of the operation, as it related to the design of two out of the three pillars (investment climate and
   public sector), was generally convincing. It linked fiscal and policy support from the Bank to broad regulatory
   improvements in the business environment for private investors, including in the core economic sector (cotton),
   and to improvements in both transparency and accountability of budget policy. These regulatory improvements
   were expected to encourage an increase in private investment, both domestic and foreign, acceleration in output
   and export growth, and a decline in poverty incidence (as the wellbeing of rural poor depends critically on the
   situation in the cotton sector). A strong feature of the program design relates to complementarity between PRSC
   policy reforms and a number of parallel Bank-supported investment projects that provided technical assistance
   for preparation and implementation of these policies.

   However, the design of the remaining pillar (access to services) was less well-aligned with the Government’s
   reform momentum. As became clear during implementation, there was insufficient political appetite for
   decentralization within the national elite, as well as lack of local capacity to sustain the proposed aggressive pace
   of decentralization. Moreover, it was unclear that across-the-board decentralization of service delivery constituted
   a critical pre-condition for improved access to services in the specific institutional environment of Burkina Faso.

   Another significant weakness of the program design relates to the diversion from its original reform focus under
   PRSC-9 in response to major external shocks. Consequently, a number of core initially outlined reform initiatives,
   including in the mining and power sectors, and in labor market deregulation, were not effectively continued. In
   addition, the final operation in the series, PRSC-11, had a relatively weak set of prior actions – three out of eight
   of them had a limited regulatory impact as they were confined to the production of the government strategy and
   plans. In addition, the important PRSC-11 trigger on mining/EITI was dropped -- this represents an important
   missed opportunity to reduce risks of resource dependency, as gold mining recently became a major export and
   growth driver in Burkina economy. The design of both PRSC-10 and PRSC-11 was insufficiently ambitious.
   Macroeconomic framework. Burkina’s overall macroeconomic situation has remained stable in the period despite
   political and trade shocks and was supportive of economic growth. Fiscal policy was consistent with
                                                                                                nd
   macroeconomic stability, and the fiscal deficit was largely financed by donor assistance. A 2 Extended Credit
   Facility (ECF) program for 2014–16 was approved by the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF’s) Board in
   December, 2013.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Before discussing achievement of program objectives, it is important to specify the exact set of benchmarks used
   by the IEG for this assessment. This is because the outcome indicators contained in the Results Framework
   evolved over the program period. The original Results Framework was introduced in PD for PRSC-7, it contained
   28 indicators with the program targets set for 2009, the original year for program completion, as well as a
   baseline for 2006. Starting from PRSC-9 this Results Framework was modified annually by changing the set of
   indicators as well as by gradual shifting the target year to 2011. The PD for PRSC-11 contains 33 indicators, out
   of which 11 were new indicators, introduced in steps in PRSC-9, -10 and -11. Respectively 22 original indicators
   presented in PRSC-9 were maintained through the entire series, while six indicators were dropped.

   The individual Program Documents do not discuss the reasons for these changes in the indicator set. The ICR
   explains that those were introduced to better align the program Results Framework with the evolving monitoring
   framework for government’s PRSP, agreed across the large group of development partners, including the Bank
   (ICR, para. 12). There appears to be no apparent bias in this evolution of the Results Framework, which was
   driven by two primary factors: a) a shift in the focus of reform program supported by the PRSC series that
   happened starting from PRSC-9, and b) a need to adjust the outcome indicators in order to maintain a proper link
   between the set of actual prior actions in PRSC-9, -10 and -11 and the Results Framework. The IEG assesses
   program achievements in this section based on the final Results Framework, as presented in PD for PRSC-11
   with the targets set for 2011. Section 10 provides additional details on the Results Framework.
It is worth noting that the ICR reports program outcomes for a reduced set of indicators (26 out of 33). IEG relies
on other sources, including CAS (2013), Implementation and Status Report for PRSC-11 (2012), and IMF, to fill
some of these gaps.

Overarching Objectives : Acceleration of real growth and the reduction of the incidence of poverty - Modest

Growth
Burkina Faso faced major external shocks during the 2007-2011 period, including the fuel and food price crises in
2008-09, the global financial crisis, the 2009 floods, and the political crisis in the Cote d’Ivoire (ICR, para. 37).
Growth was nonetheless resilient. The target under the PRSC series was to reach 6.7% GDP growth in 2011
against the baseline of 6.4% in 2006. While growth in 2011 was only 4.2%, it accelerated to 6.6% on average in
2011-13, close to the program target.

Poverty
According to the CAS (2009), the incidence of poverty fell from 46.3% to 42.1% between 2004 and 2006, and the
PRSC program intended to reduce it further down by more than three percentage points. However, largely due to
the external shocks, the share of the population living under the poverty line by 2009 had reverted back to above
46% (CAS FY 2010-2012, p.7), and since then the poverty headcount has stagnated (CAS FY 2013-2016, p.7).
The broader measure of human development, UNDP Human Development Index, also reflects rather a slow
pace of improvement: Burkina Faso remains near the bottom of global ranking, 181th out of 187 countries, and
this ranking did not change between 2008 and 2013.

Specific Objective 1. Promoting improvements in the investment climate and promotion of exports – Modest

Investment Climate
According to the Doing Business Indicators, Burkina Faso has made progress towards lower administrative
                                                                           th                         rd
barriers for the private sector: the country’s ranking improved from 163 out of 175 in 2007 to 153 out of 185
countries in 2013. This reflects simplification in business registration, construction permits, better contract
enforcement, and reforms in tax administration, all supported under the program. However, most progress in this
                                                                                                 th             rd
area was achieved during 2007-09, and the country’s DB ranking actually declined from 148 in 2009 to 153 in
2013. Moreover, major weaknesses in the regulatory regime persist, notably extensive regulations that hinder
entrepreneurial activity, and a weak judicial system that fuels corruption (ICR, para. 44).

The program objective of reducing time for business registration was fully achieved, and that for the number of
newly established firms almost achieved. The number of foreign investors attracted increased from 214 in 2007
to 327 in 2011, which was considerably below the target of 500. The program also provided for major
amendments to the legal and regulatory framework that governs developments of land markets. This brought
about additional security of land tenure through issuing land tenure certificates, and introduced a mechanism for
settling land disputes. The number of certificates of land tenure issued reached 13,730 in 2011, much above the
program target of 5,000.

Exports
The program target for export expansion was achieved: the annual value of merchandize exports (in US dollars)
in 2011 was about 3 times higher than in 2006. Average annual growth rate of exports over 2010-12 was about
40% vs. 33% growth target. However, this was driven by gold exports, which increased 40-fold between 2006
and 2011. This achievement cannot be attributed to the program, since mining reforms were dropped from the
series. There was no significant increase in cotton exports, another main export item, despite a number of
reforms initiated by the program, including restructuring and recapitalization of SOFITEX, expansion in private
sector participation, and alignment of domestic cotton price mechanism with international market pricing. The
pace of cotton sector reforms was uneven (PD for PRSC-10, p.14). SOFITEX still remains quite inefficient and
unprofitable, and the share of private operators in the sector is estimated to be only 15%. Global cotton price
volatility also affected the sector’s performance, which in turn had major impact on trends in rural poverty. Meat
exports increased, but at a rate below the program target.

Specific Objective 2. Promoting improvements in access to basic social services by deepening decentralization
and strengthening institutional capacity - Modest

In education, the Government has continued its policy of subsidizing schooling in the 20 provinces with the lowest
school enrollment rates, increasing the number of schools and school equipment, and providing free textbooks.
Gross enrollment rates (GER) for primary education rose from 66.6% in 2006 to 79.6% in 2011 below the
program target of 91.8%. Primary completion rates increased respectively from 36.4% to 55.1% (target – 56.6%).
According to the CAS (2013), these advances will not enable Burkina Faso to reach the education MDG by 2015.
Access to health services improved as shown by the increase in vaccination rates: for measles – from 88% in
2006 to 100.5% in 2011 and for DTC/HEP/HB3, respectively, from 95% to 104%. In both cases the program
targets were 100%. In addition, the share of health centers respecting the staff norms has improved: from 76% in
2007 to 89% in 2011 (exceeding the program target of 87%). However, this better supply of health services did
not result yet in significantly better health outcomes. According to the CAS (2013), infant and maternal mortality
rates in Burkina Faso are still high.

Access to safe drinking water in urban areas reached 80% in 2011 (vs. target of 79%), but it decreased in rural
areas – from 62% in 2006 to 59% in 2011 (target under the program – 65%). Access to sanitation (only 27% for
urban and 11% for rural areas) is another major problem and progress there remained considerably below the
program targets.

A decree specifying the organizational structures of local governments was signed in April, 2012 by the Ministers
of Finance and Decentralization. It provides municipalities with the authority to hire the staff needed to carry out
the responsibilities assigned to them by law. In addition, the Government established a financial structure to
support decentralization implementation in the form of Permanent Financing Fund for Municipalities (FPDC) and
Municipal Development Fund (FDC). It also increased the share of state's budget that is transferred to local
governments, from 0.9% in 2006 to 3.9% in 2011 (against the program target of 3.2%).

However, there is little evidence that deepening decentralization improved access to basic services. The share of
the budget transferred to local authorities was still considered inadequate (PD for PRSC-10, p. 12), given the
broad responsibilities for managing pre-school, school, and health assets, which have been devolved to
municipalities. Local authorities are responsible for delivery of services that are not adequately funded.
Additionally, the amount of budget funds allocated for transfers to local governments are subject to annual
decisions of the central government and do not yet follow a well-defined formula. (PD for PRSC-10, p.12).
Overall, effective decentralization of fiscal resources under the PRSG-9 and PRSG-10 has not produced
adequate results (PD for PRSC-11, p. 15), and this was a reason to drop the entire Pillar II (Access to Services)
from PRSC-11.

Specific Objective 3. Promoting higher efficiency , transparency and accountability in the use of public
resources – Substantial

The Government implemented the integrated action plan to strengthen public finances (SRFP) adopted in 2007.
Specific steps included strengthening the medium-term budget framework, introducing computerized expenditure
management systems at the subnational level, more timely preparation of budget execution reports, enhancing
the transparency and reliability of budgetary information, and adoption of program budgets in selected key
ministries. The reforms have led to a decrease in arrears, which are now less than two percent of total
government expenditures (there is no information on the levels prior to the program). Various improvements in
budget classification have made annual budget information more detailed to boost budgetary transparency. In
addition, the Government has started posting information on budget execution on its website.

Overall, Burkina’s PFM system scores relatively well in international assessments and has been improving over
the last decade. The 2010 Public Expenditure Review ranks Burkina among the top performers in Francophone
West Africa. The country’s international ranking reflected in the Open Budget Index showed a significant
improvement – from 11 in 2006 to 23 in 2012.

The PRSC program provided support to the Government with implementation of the action plan on public
procurement drawn from Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR, 2005). Specifically, there was a
restructuring and decentralization of key agencies in charge of public procurement, strengthening of the external
oversight of the procurement process, and an enhancement of capacity within the public procurement, including
through the introduction of IT systems. As a result, the share of procurement through open tender increased from
77% in 2007 to 94% in 2011 (vs. program target of 85%). The annual number of procurement contracts audited
by the internal control agencies increased from 25 in 2006 to 89 in 2011 (target – 45). The number of physical
spot-checks of procurement contracts, undertaken by the Directorate for Financial Control (DGCF), reached 249
in 2011 against the target of 200.

The program also assisted the Government in facilitating capacity-building and independence of the high level
accountability institutions, Court of Accounts and High Authority for State Oversight (ASCE). The Court of
Accounts has obtained the legal authority to issue disciplinary judgments against budget managers. The
government created a system for delegated audit of local governments’ accounts by regional treasurers, on
behalf of the Court. Annual reports from both accountability institutions (ASCE and the Audit Court) have been
   regularly made available to the public, supporting public demand for accountability (publication of these reports
   were specific targets under the program). However, the actions taken on audit findings still fall short of an
   appropriate follow-up, particularly with regard to sanctions for misconduct (ICR, para. 57).

   Due to strengthening of its institutions in charge of checks and balances, Burkina compares favorably to both the
   African average and low-income countries’ average. The country moved up in the global ranking of corruption
   perceptions, compiled by the Transparency International – from 3.2 in 2006 to 3.8 in 2012 (but below the target of
   4.0), which puts Burkina in the middle of the global transparency league.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The outcome rating of the program is moderately unsatisfactory reflecting substantial relevance of objectives,
   modest relevance of design, modest achievement of the overarching objective and two of the three specific
   objectives, and a substantial rating for the third. The program helped the borrower to make some progress in the
   areas of investment climate, access to core services and accountability of the public sector, but generally the
   pace of improvements was below expectations. A considerable proportion of program targets across all
   objectives was not achieved. The outcomes were particularly weak in the area of decentralization and cotton
   sector restructuring, where the government buy-in was insufficient. The expected decline in poverty rate did not
   materialize, although average economic growth rate remained quite high. Moreover, the pace of reforms slowed
   down considerably in the later stages of the program. The program outcomes were seriously affected by a
   number of severe external shocks that brought about major economic and social cost.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   There are several significant external and internal risks that may affect sustainability of program outcomes.
   Burkina Faso remains highly exposed to the traditional risks of commodity price volatility, weather shocks, and
   adverse regional political developments, including crises in neighboring countries. Structural reforms in the cotton
   sector are still incomplete, while the boom in gold mining brings new risks associated with resource dependency.
   In addition, there has recently been an increase in political risks associated with the outbreak of social unrest in
   2011, as well as growing pressure on budget spending and political uncertainty in the run-up to presidential
   elections in 2015. In addition, according to the IMF (2014), increasingly unreliable electricity supply has become a
   major risk factor for potential investors. These risks, however, are moderated by continuous strong donor
   commitment to support Burkina Faso, by the Government’s track record of responsible macroeconomic
   management, and by the recent (2013) commitment to transparent management of resource revenues made
   under the EITI. Moreover, the Government has recently developed new mechanisms to monitor and mitigate
   various external risks and shocks, including the establishment of the National Committee for Emergency
   Assistance (CONASUR). It also increased budget investment expenditures (within the existing budget envelope)
   to support rehab of infrastructure damaged by floods. Based on the latest (2012) Debt Sustainability Analysis
   (DSA), Burkina Faso is seen at a moderate risk of debt distress.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    The original program design was based on solid foundations: (i) a close alignment with the Government’s
    PRSP and the Bank’s strategy documents; (ii) extensive prior analytical work, including Country Economic
    Memorandum (CEM), Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs), Country Procurement Assessment Reports, an
    Investment Climate Study, and Poverty Assessment; and (iii) reflections on the lessons learned from
    implementation of the earlier PRSC series. The program preparation was undertaken in close coordination
    with other development partners providing budget support to Burkina Faso. The prior actions were fully
   aligned with the Government’s own Priority Actions Plan and were part of the joint performance matrix
   adopted by the donors’ budget support group (CGAB) (ICR, paras. 34, 68). However, quality at entry suffered
   from overestimating the government’s reform commitment, especially in the areas of decentralization and
   cotton sector restructuring. Starting from PRSC-9 the program design deviated from its original policy targets.
   As a result, the reform program became less ambitious, and the series did not have much traction in critical
   sectors such as power and mining. Section 3b discusses other significant weaknesses of the program design.
   In addition, there was a disconnect between prior actions and the set of results indicators, as explained in
   Section 10.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The supervision of the program was based on the M&E arrangements put in place collectively by the
   Government and donors to monitor a broader process of PRSP implementation. Those included annual
   PRSP progress reports, regular reports under the joint donor CGAB performance framework, and the related
   IMF-Bank Joint Staff Notes (JSANs). A need to coordinate a policy program across a large and diverse group
   of donors was a challenge. The team prepared four Implementation and Status Reports (ISRs). Additional
   analytical work, undertaken in the course of program implementation, such as the 2010 PER, was another
   instrument of program supervision and monitoring. Preparation of each subsequent PRSC was undertaken
   through dialogue with the Authorities linked to the assessment of progress under the previous operation (ICR,
   paras. 69-70). The prior actions followed closely (with a few exceptions) the triggers agreed earlier.
   Implementation benefitted from strong complementarity between the PRSCs and a number of parallel IDA
   investment operations that provided effective technical support for implementation of core policy reforms
   (ICR, para. 38). The most important weakness of supervision relates to the above mentioned evolution of the
   reform program later in the PRSP series: the Bank did agree to a major change to the preliminary indicated
   PRSC-9 program, which reduced its reform impact.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The Government’s performance under the program was uneven. On the positive side, the Government made
   a strong commitment to growth and poverty reduction by developing, in a participatory manner, a good quality
   PRSP, which became a basis for the PRSC program (ICR, para. 72), and by regular publication of annual
   progress reports. The Government also maintained macroeconomic stability in the face of adverse external
   shocks by keeping fiscal policies sustainable, while gradually increasing budgetary funding for the priority
   sectors. On other hand, the Government did not show sufficient ownership of major reforms, which became
   the core factor in weakening the impact of the PRSC program. Vested interests continue to block some
   critical reforms, such as SOFITEX privatization (ICR, para. 24), while lack of central government buy-in
   undermined implementation of the decentralization strategy. In 2010-11, there was a further slowdown in the
   pace of reform implementation, related to the presidential elections in November 2010 (PD for PRSC-11, p.
   51). As a result, the prior action encompassing reforms in the mining sector was dropped from the PRSC-11
   program due to delays in reaching consensus regarding amendments to the Mining Code and delays in the
   finalization of the first EITI report. The preparation of the new Strategy for Accelerated Growth and
   Sustainable Development (Stratégie de Croissance Accélérée et de Développement Durable or SCADD) was
   significantly delayed, a factor which influenced the Bank’s decision to add two more operations to this PRSC
   series. There were also delays in effectiveness of individual operations because of the constraints imposed
   by the existing national legal framework and procedures for approvals of external budget support credits.
  Government Performance Rating :                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The implementing agency, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), successfully coordinated program
    implementation across the number of sectoral ministries. On the working level, the designated technical unit
    in the Ministry, SP-PFP, played a leading role in program coordination and monitoring, and supporting a
    broad policy dialogue with the donors. This included preparation of annual PRSP progress reports, which
    were of good quality, covered most PRSC results indicators, and were broadly disseminated. Changes in the
    MEF temporarily weakened the unit in 2009, and hence the dialogue on implementation of PRSP and related
    programs. The MEF introduced corrective actions in 2010 that were broadly successful (ICR, paras. 29,
    74-75).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The M&E framework was solid and fully incorporated into the joint monitoring arrangements established by the
   Government and the donor group for tracking progress with PRSP implementation. Implementation
   arrangements included production and update of a broad-based performance matrix with agreed targets and
   indicators that allowed for enhanced coordination in performance assessment. The specific outcome indictors
   monitored under the PRSC series were, to a large extent, a sub-set of this performance matrix, thus reducing
   monitoring costs for both the Government and the Bank. The Bank also monitored a limited number of additional
   indicators. The original Results Framework introduced by PRSC-7 included 28 outcome indicators. Over the
   course of the program implementation the specific set of indicators was modified in line with the evolution of both
   the program’s focus as well as the changes in the joint performance matrix. The final Results Framework in
   PRSC-11 included 33 outcome indicators. The selected indicators covered well the program policy areas and
   prior actions, and were sufficiently backed up by regular surveys and other data collection arrangements (ICR,
   paras. 27-28). There was some degree of disconnect between the prior actions and results indicators: some prior
   actions (e.g. Reforms of VAT refunds) were not monitored, while some indicators (growth in gold exports) were
   not adequately linked to the policy reforms supported by the program.


b. M&E Implementation:

   Annual progress reports that included information on PRSC outcome indicators were produced and jointly
   discussed with the government and development partners. The program implementation agency, Ministry of
   Economy and Finance, played a key role in M&E implementation. These annual reports are considered to be of
   good quality (ICR, para. 29).


c. M&E Utilization:

   M&E was utilized by the Bank to track implementation. Annual updates of the Results Framework indicators were
   presented in Policy Documents for each subsequent PRSC. The ISRs also presented this monitoring information,
   but in a reduced format. The ICR, however, does not represent well the program Results Framework (see section
   15). The Government fully owned the M&E process and results, and utilized them in PRSP progress evaluation
   and in preparation of the SCADD. In the course of program implementation, the government’s dissemination of
   annual progress report has improved (ICR, para. 29).

 M&E Quality Rating: Substantial
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    No safeguard policies were triggered by this PRSC series.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    The ICR does not discuss fiduciary issues related to the program implementation.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately        There were significant design
                                                            Unsatisfactory    weaknesses and modest achievement
                                                                              of three out of four development
                                                                              objectives.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        There were moderate shortcomings in
                                                            Satisfactory      Quality at Entry, including design
                                                                              deficiencies that made the concluding
                                                                              operations of the program less
                                                                              ambitious and focused. During
                                                                              implementation, the Bank accepted a
                                                                              weakening of the reform program.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately        The Government did not show sufficient
                                                            Unsatisfactory    reform ownership, a core reason for
                                                                              weakening impact of the program.
                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The following lessons are taken from the ICR with some adaptation of language:

          Long period of strong economic growth in Burkina Faso, in an environment of macroeconomic stability
          and solid PFM management, can produce rather limited poverty reduction benefits. Diagnostics of binding
          constraints for poverty reduction have to be improved in order to refocus future budget support on priority
          policy reforms.
         An effective coordination, harmonization, and institutionalization of donor support can be achieved even in
          the environment of a least developed country, such as Burkina Faso, and these arrangements can support
          implementation of the Bank’s budget support programs by helping to advance consensus around key
            policy reforms, thereby reducing transaction costs associated with delivery of donor assistance, etc.

           In the presence of powerful vested interests, a series of policy based operations could become an
            effective instrument for building consensus on difficult reforms by splitting the goal of ultimate policy
            reform into a succession of intermediary steps, each supported by an individual operation.

           The following lesson is drawn by the IEG:

           Where the Bank decides to increase significantly the size of its budget support relative to the volumes
            initially indicated in the country program, the program documentation would benefit from including clear
            justification for such a decision and whether this increase in support allowed for additional strengthening
            of the recipient’s reform program.


14. Assessment Recommended?                     Yes     No

Why?

           In view of the difference in ratings, the importance of the program in the national setting, and the follow-up DPO
            series, a PPAR is recommended. This exercise, involving field visits, would enable a more detailed evaluation of the program’s
            ratings.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR shows a number of significant weaknesses. Two of these relate to the inadequate presentation of the
    program Results Framework and a deficient assessment of program efficacy. The ICR presents neither the
    program targets, established at the outset of the program, nor the degree of their attainment. Instead of
    comparing actual program developments relative to the agreed targets, the ICR assesses efficacy based on
    progress made against the baseline, which is inconsistent with the evaluation guidelines. This resulted in a major
    upward bias in the ICR’s ratings of program outcomes. In addition, the ICR does not present data for 7 out of 33
    outcome indicators in the Result Framework, and it misreports the program baseline (providing data for 2007 in
    the situation when the original baseline was agreed on the 2006 data – see ICR tables on pages 10-15).

    The ICR does not show sufficient candor and accuracy in evaluation of project developments and justification of
    its ratings. For instance, in assessing the outcomes under the Pillar 2 in para. 51, the ICR concludes that “all but
    one outcome indicators were met”. In IEG’s assessment, only five out of ten program targets under the Pillar 2
    were met.

    In a number of instances, the ICR provides inaccurate or confusing explanations of major project developments.
    These include claims that a) only minor revisions were made to the development objectives (para. 8), while in fact
    the goals of both PRSC-9 and -10 were significantly modified; b) the PRSC-11 prior action on mining code
    revisions was fulfilled, when in fact it was dropped (table on page 6), and c) Pillar 2 (access to services) was
    removed from PRSC-11 because “its objectives had already been achieved” (para. 8). In addition, the ICR does
    not provide adequate analysis and information on several key program events, including a) reasons for adding
    two more operations to the series; b) factors for regular delays in effectiveness of individual PRSCs, which was
    highlighted by the borrower as a major issue (ICR, para. 83, part 1); and c) reasons why the actual size of the
    program was significantly larger that the volumes envisioned in the Country Assistance Strategies. Some of the
    above information was obtained and reflected in this review based on separate communications with the team.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
