                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank


                                                          Report No: ICR00003443



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                              ( TF-98819 AND TF-98862)



                                          ON

                                       GRANTS

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 14.1 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                       FOR THE

      THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAM FOR COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT
      IN RURAL AREAS - DISASTER MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT




                                      May 1, 2015




Global Practice for Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2014

                           Currency Unit = Rupiah
                           IDR 1.00 = US$ 0.0008
                           US$ 1.00 = IDR 12,204

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BPD       Badan Permusyawaratan Desa (Village Council)
BPKP      Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan (Finance and Development
          Supervisory Agency)
BPS       Badan Pusat Statistik (Central Bureau of Statistics)
BPMD      Badan Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Desa (Village Community Empowerment
          Agency)
CDD       Community-Driven Development
CDRM      Community-Based Disaster Risk Management
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DIY       Daerah Istimewah Yogyakarta (Yogyakarta Special Region)
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
FM        Financial Management
GoI       Government of Indonesia
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results
IDR       Indonesian Rupiah
IRI       Intermediate Results Indicator
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
JMC       Joint Management Committee
Kabupaten District
KDP       Kecamatan Development Project
Kecamatan Sub-district
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MoHA      Ministry of Home Affairs
MIS       Management Information System
NGO       Non-Government Organization
NMC       National Management Consultant
O&M       Operations and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PMD       Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Desa (Village Community Empowerment)
PMU       Project Management Unit
PNPM      Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat (National Community
          Empowerment Program)
PSF       PNPM Support Facility
PTO       Petunjuk Teknis Operasional (Technical Operational Guidelines)

                                     ii
RMC      Regional Management Consultant
Satker   Unit Satuan Kerja (local government coordination team)
UPK      Sub-District Activity Management Unit

         Regional Vice President:        Axel van Trotsenburg
         Country Director:               Rodrigo A. Chaves
         Senior Global Practice          Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
         Director
         Acting Practice Manager:        Kevin Tomlinson
         Project Team Leader:            Sonya Woo
         ICR Team Leader:                Sonya Woo




                                        iii
                                 INDONESIA
          THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAM FOR COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT
              IN RURAL AREAS – DISASTER MANAGEMENT SUPPORT




                                                         CONTENTS




Data Sheet
A. Basic Information........................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................... vi
F. Results Framework Analysis ........................................................................................ vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................... ix
H. Restructuring (if any) ..................................................................................................... x
I. Disbursement Profile ...................................................................................................... x

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................ 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................... 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Economic, Financial and Technical Analysis ................................................... 33
Annex 4. Loan Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey ........................................................................................... 38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 39
Annex 7. Borrower's Completion Report ......................................................................... 41
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers .............................................................................. 43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 44
Annex 10. Photographs ..................................................................................................... 45

MAP IBRD33420




                                                                  iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Third National Program
                                                                         for Community
Country:               Indonesia               Project Name:             Empowerment in Rural
                                                                         Areas - Disaster
                                                                         Management Support
Project ID:            P125600                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-98819,TF-98862
ICR Date:              05/26/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Grantee:
                                                                         INDONESIA
Original Total
                       USD 14.10M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 13.88M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 13.90M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Directorate General of Community and Village Empowerment, Ministry of Home Affairs
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 US Agency for International Development (USAID)

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/21/2010   Effectiveness:                               03/23/2011
                                                                                 12/17/2012
Appraisal:             01/29/2010   Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 12/05/2013
Approval:              01/19/2011   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                12/31/2012           11/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:


                                               v
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                     Quality at Entry
Project at any time          Yes                                             None
                                                     (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                         3                     3
Irrigation and drainage                                                 56                  56
Other social services                                                    3                     3
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                32                  32
Water supply                                                             6                     6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                             53                  53
Other social development                                                 1                  1
Participation and civic engagement                                      15                  15
Rural markets                                                            5                  5
Rural services and infrastructure                                       26                  26

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:            Rodrigo A. Chaves                    Stefan G. Koeberle
Practice
                             Kevin A Tomlinson                    Jan Weetjens
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:         Sonya Woo                            Kevin A Tomlinson
ICR Team Leader:             Sonya Woo
ICR Primary Author:          Jacqueline L. Pomeroy


                                                   vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
For villagers in PNPM-Rural locations to benefit from improved socio-economic and local
governance conditions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
For villagers in PNPM-Rural locations to benefit from improved socio-economic and local
governance conditions in disaster affected areas.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally          Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target         Completion or
                                               documents)           Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     More than 50% of villages replace infrastructure lost to disaster
Value
quantitative or                             50%                50%            96%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               11/30/2012         11/30/2012     11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  More than 80% satisfaction levels from beneficiaries regarding improved
Indicator 2 :
                  services and local level governance
Value
                                                             more than     72% or 83% with
quantitative or 80%                       more than 80%
                                                             80%           adjusted weightings
Qualitative)
Date achieved                             11/30/2012         11/30/2012    11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Economic internal rates of return (EIRRs), more than 30% for major rural
Indicator 3 :
                infrastructure types
Value
                                                             more than
quantitative or 39%                       more than 30%                    40%
                                                             30%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2010                  11/30/2012         11/30/2012    11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Project beneficiaries
Value
                                                             more than
quantitative or                           0                                74%
                                                             70%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                             11/30/2012         11/30/2012    11/30/2014
Comments

                                                vii
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : of which female (beneficiaries)
Value
quantitative or                         0                     50%            50.42%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                           11/30/2012            11/30/2012     11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                    Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                     Target Years
                  Minimal 50% participation rate of women and poorest community members in
Indicator 1 :
                  planning and decision-making meetings
Value
                                                                             42.4% women and
(quantitative                              50%
                                                                             28.5% poorest
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                              11/30/2012                        11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Number of type of infrastructure works, economic, and education and health
Indicator 2 :
                  subprojects or activities completed in selected disaster areas by 2012
Value
(quantitative                                                             98%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                             11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : More than 50% of infrastructure works are evaluated as of high quality
Value
(quantitative                          more than 50%                      86-91%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                          11/30/2012                         11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                O&M arrangement are in place and functioning for more than 50% of
Indicator 4 :
                infrastructure works
Value
(quantitative                          more than 50%                      86-87%
or Qualitative)

                                               viii
Date achieved                             11/30/2012                            11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : More than 70% of agreed additional consultants are recruited and trained
Value
(quantitative                             more than 70%                         100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             11/30/2012                            11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                90% of disaster-affected sub-districts get additional facilitator and training for
Indicator 6 :
                disaster assessment
Value
(quantitative                             90%                                   100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             11/30/2012                            11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Audit carried out in more than 25% of disaster affected sub-district
Value
(quantitative                             more than 25%                         39%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             11/30/2012                            11/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  3     04/13/2012      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              6.04
  4     02/10/2013      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            11.55
  5     11/02/2013      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            13.00
  6     06/11/2014      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            13.00
  7     01/05/2015      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            13.54




                                                  ix
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extend the closing date to 31
 12/17/2012       N       MS    MS           11.55
                                                     December 2013
                                                     Extend the closing date to 30
 12/05/2013               MS    MS           13.00
                                                     November 2014


I. Disbursement Profile




                                        x
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

In October 2010 Indonesia was struck by two major natural disasters: an earthquake which
triggered a tsunami hit Mentawai (West Sumatra); and Mt. Merapi volcano erupted
(Central Java and Yogyakarta). Nearly a thousand people died in these disasters and more
than 350,000 were displaced in Java alone. Nearly three thousand homes were heavily
damaged or destroyed in Java, along with roughly 20% of all housing in four sub-districts
in Mentawai. Already-poor fishing and farming families suffered catastrophic losses to
their income-generating ability. (See Annex 10 for photographs of both Java and
Mentawai.)

The Government of Indonesia (GoI) requested emergency assistance to use the ongoing
Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat (National Community Empowerment
Program or “PNPM”) platform and aligned community driven development (CDD)
mechanisms as a key pillar of its recovery strategy for these three areas, Mentawai (West
Sumatra), Central Java and the Yogyakarta Special Region (D.I. Yogyakarta or DIY). The
Disaster Management Support Project (“project”) was subsequently proposed as an
additional grant financing operation linked to PNPM Rural III (Ln. 7867-ID). The grant
would finance the costs associated with GoI disaster management and recovery efforts at
the community level.

PNPM provided the platform and implementation mechanism to: (a) access financing
through the PNPM Support Facility (PSF), a multi-donor trust fund; and (b) transfer these
resources directly to communities through block grants to finance disaster recovery
activities. Allocating the proposed US$14.1 million through the PSF was intended to
promote economies of scale and continuity with on-going disaster management support
activities by using the facilitation and other project support structures already in place.

Rationale for Bank Involvement. The CDD approach of PNPM was a key component of
the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2009-2012 1 which emphasized
engagements with government counterparts and other stakeholders who were committed
to addressing critical governance and institutional challenges. The Bank had extensive
experience with CDD-based disaster recovery and had delivered programs following the
2004 earthquakes and tsunami in Aceh and Nias, and after the 2006 earthquake that
devastated Yogyakarta. See Section 2.1, footnote 6. The additional financing supported
three of the five thematic areas of the CPS: (a) Infrastructure; (b) Community Development
and Social Protection; and (c) Environmental Sustainability and Disaster Mitigation.

The project was also consistent with Indonesia’s Disaster Management Law (Law No. 24
of 2007) which included community-based disaster risk management (CDRM). CDRM
focused on ways to encourage and invite more active participation from local government

1
 “Investing in Indonesia’s Institutions” (Report No. 44845-IND) dated July 22, 2008 and approved by the
Board on September 11, 2008.
and community members in the planning, implementation, and monitoring of disaster
management programs. The proposed additional financing was intended to make a direct
contribution to the CDRM component of the National Disaster Management Framework.

1.2    Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Performance
Indicators

The PDO as stated in the PAD was for villagers in PNPM-Rural locations to benefit from
improved socio-economic and local governance conditions in disaster-affected areas. The
PDO in the Grant Agreement was consistent with the PAD version.

Key performance indicators were based on PNPM-Rural III indicators and modified to
meet the project requirements. This included adding an outcome indicator specific to the
disaster-affected areas, revising four PNPM-Rural III intermediary results indicators, and
dropping two which were inappropriate. (See the datasheet for full set of indicators.)

Specifically, PDO indicators were:
   • >50% of villages replace infrastructure lost to disaster;
   • >80% satisfaction levels from beneficiaries regarding improved services and local
       level governance;
   • EIRRs >30% for major rural infrastructure types; and
   • > 70% Project beneficiaries (and percentage female beneficiaries) 2.

1.3      Revised PDO and Key Indicators

The PDO and key indicators remained unchanged during project implementation.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

The intended primary beneficiaries of the project consisted of the inhabitants of 18 disaster-
affected sub-districts located in three provinces.
                                                                                         Population
                 West Sumatra (Mentawai District, four sub-districts)                       31,985
                 Central Java (3 districts, 13 sub-districts)                              612,502
                 DI Yogyakarta (Selman District, one sub-district)                          27,657
                 Total Population                                                          672,144

It was intended that the population of these kecamatan (“sub-districts”) would benefit both
directly and indirectly from the repair and reconstruction of community infrastructure and
services, grant assistance for those affected by the disasters, especially the poorest and most
vulnerable groups, supporting the return of families to their villages and basic clean up
(cash-for-work programs), and support for displaced populations (preparation of
resettlement sites), training, facilitation and implementation of disaster risk reduction

2 While this indicator was not included in the Results Framework, it was featured in the Monitoring Table. In accordance

with the Bank’s guidance on core sector indicators, all investment projects which had an approval date of July 1, 2009
or later were required to identify and measure the number of project beneficiaries.
strategies (improved communications, signage and infrastructure for evacuation, disaster
response strategies), and support for economic recovery strategies (infrastructure and
revolving credit)–all planned and implemented through a CDD process.

Secondary beneficiaries were: (i) the Directorate General for Community and Village
Empowerment (PMD) in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) (the executing agency),
which would benefit from increased capacity in post-disaster management; (ii) village level
cadres and partner agencies providing implementation support for disaster-related
activities; (iii) district governments in which the 18 target sub-districts were located, who
would benefit from training and institutional strengthening aimed at improving their
planning and disaster response capabilities, including supporting communications, and
coordination with the village level underpinned by transparent and accountable governance
processes; and (iv) village representative councils (Badan Permusyawaratan Desa or BPD)
in disaster-affected areas, which would benefit from technical assistance to establish and
strengthen their role in channeling CDD funds to appropriate disaster response and
recovery-related community activities and investments.

1.5     Original Components

Component I: Disaster Management Kecamatan Grants (US$12.9 million). The
additional financing provided grants to beneficiaries for: (i) planning for community
development, including the community’s assessment of damages and the preparation of
sub-grant proposals, (ii) training and capacity building, including development planning
and investment, (iii) investing in social and economic infrastructure identified through
community development planning, including the initial cash-for-work recovery activities 3
followed by infrastructure planning, (iv) investing in activities identified through
community development planning using Revolving Loan Funds (RLF), and (v) preparing
for and responding to disasters, emergency or catastrophic events, as needed. The intent
was for community-driven investments in infrastructure and economic recovery activities
to lead to improvements in socio-economic conditions, and community collaboration with
local government in planning and implementing both the projects and the disaster risk
management strategies with transparent and accountable mechanisms for all participants
contributed to improved local governance conditions.

Component II: Facilitation Support (US$1.0 million). The additional financing
supported technical advisory services, general and disaster-specific training and other
material support, through facilitators, to strengthen the capacity of Kabupaten and
Kecamatan government institutions and communities in development planning and
investment. The PAD noted that facilitation is instrumental for sound community planning
and budgeting, which affects the number and quality of the infrastructure investments and
hence their socio-economic impact. In addition, the PAD identified facilitation as the
communications conduit between local government and the communities, and serves to
reinforce the transparent and accountable governance processes.

3
  Cash-for-work programs were implemented in all locations, but there were enough unspent block grant
resources in Mentawai to fund these directly. Grant funds were used to support these activities in Central
Java and DI Yogyakarta.
Component III: Implementation Support and Technical Assistance (US$0.2 million).
This component would provide technical advisory services, training and other material
support for PNPM implementation at national-, Province-, District-, and Sub-district-
levels, including training of facilitators, monitoring and evaluation, and enhanced technical
and financial audits. These measures were identified as have substantial impact on
improved local governance, both directly through the technical and financial audits, plus
monitoring and evaluation, and indirectly through training and capacity building.

1.6    Revised Components

The components remained unchanged during project implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

Two Level II restructurings were undertaken to extend the project closing dates, primarily
to meet the needs for additional assistance to complete activities in the remote area of
Mentawai. The unspent funds remaining in the trust fund at the end of the project were
reallocated to fund similar post-disaster activities for communities in North Sumatra and
East Java, as anticipated in the PAD.

 Date                     Change
 December 17, 2012        Level II restructuring: closing date for TF98819 (US$13.9
                          million) extended from December 31, 2012 to December 31,
                          2013.
                          TF98862 (US$.2 million) was allowed to close on December
                          31, 2012 without disbursement. See section 2.2 for details.
 November 26, 2013        Level II restructuring: closing date extended from December
                          31, 2013 to November 30, 2014
 August 2014              Bank provided no objection to PMD request to reallocate the
                          anticipated undisbursed Grant funds to reimburse eligible
                          expenditures already incurred in disaster-affected areas of
                          North Sumatra and East Java. The final amount reallocated to
                          these areas was US$353,000.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of project preparation (background analysis and lessons learned from
previous projects). The design of the DMS project was built on the existing PNPM Rural
III program (IBRD-78670, TF-99616), but with several modifications to reflect the needs
and risks inherent in a post-disaster environment. As described below, these
modifications/elements guided the organization and implementation of the project. Key
attributes of PNPM that were in place and lent themselves well to disaster recovery
included:
    •    A well-established network of community facilitators, based and operating in every
         sub-district of the country, able to carry out damage and loss assessments and to
         facilitate communities in the identification, planning and implementation of
         disaster recovery activities;
    •    Existing social capital and institutional mechanisms developed through PNPM and
         its predecessors the Kecamatan Development Program (KDP) 4 , allowing
         communities to efficiently prioritize, plan, implement and manage disaster
         recovery activities at the community level;
    •    Established financial architecture and efficient management practices that enable
         the transfer of resources directly to the sub-districts with robust fiduciary controls;
         and
    •    A comprehensive set of PNPM operational procedures to expedite and support
         disaster recovery, which were used with success in Aceh, Nias, Papua, Nusa
         Tenggara Timur (NTT), West Sumatra, and West Java.

The project was initially supported by two trust funds from different sources of funding:
TF098819 (US$13.9 million) for Components I & II, and TF098862 (US$0.2 million) for
Component III.

Assessment of project design. The foundation design of the PNPM Rural III 5 program
was verified through previous studies and its design incorporated lessons learned from
previous PNPM Rural (KDP) I and II projects (see footnote 4), as well as extensive
experience utilizing the CDD model to rebuild and support recovery in Aceh, Nias, and
other post-disaster locations 6. Key aspects of success from these earlier interventions were
incorporated into the design of the DMS project and included: (i) the value of using the
same transparent processes communities already understood and had successfully
managed; (ii) initial short term cash-for-work programs to facilitate residents’ re-entry to
the affected areas; (iii) the need to strengthen the local-level implementation structure by
providing additional facilitators to handle the increased work load (in many cases,
communities quadrupled their block grant funds and workload), together with post-disaster
training; (iv) modest relaxation of the quality requirements while increasing audits to
reflect the higher fiduciary risks in disaster-affected areas. These modifications
incorporated into the DMS project design provided some appropriate flexibility in
anticipation of a more fluid and complex immediate post-disaster environment and the
higher risks involved in implementing an ambitious medium-term work agenda.



4 Kecamatan Development Fund (SCL-4330; IDA-3430); The Second Kecamatan Development Project (Loan

4627/Credit 3525).
5 The Third National Program for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas (IBRD-78670, TF-99616).
6 For lessons learned, see the Project Appraisal Documents (PAD) for the Second Kecamatan Development Project

(IBRD-46270 IDA-35350), and the Third National Program for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas (IBRD-78670,
TF99616), and numerous pieces of analysis emerging from the reconstruction experience in Aceh and Java. These form
the basis of the extensive MDF-JRF Working Paper Series: Lessons Learned from Post-Disaster Reconstruction in
Indonesia, especially Working Paper #1: Adapting Community Driven Approaches for Post-Disaster Recovery:
Experiences from Indonesia.
The main criterion for selection of sub-districts to participate in the DMS project was
physical and economic damage resulting from the October 2010 earthquake and volcanic
eruption. Two sub-districts were added by the GoI to the five target locations proposed by
the local government in Magelang District, Central Java, and while they had extensive
economic impacts from the eruption, they suffered no physical damage. Target areas with
no physical damage could not contribute to KPIs focused on rebuilding damaged
infrastructure, while the KPIs did not capture needed economic recovery.

The original planned two year implementation period was ambitious, but acceptable for
implementation in Java. The project disbursed 98% of the funds allocated to Central Java
and DI Yogyakarta during 2011-2012, and all activities were completed there during the
fiscal year roll over period (by end-March) of 2013. However, for Mentawai, this
timeframe ended up being unfeasible because of the extremely remote location coupled
with weak local management. Forty percent of the funds were disbursed during 2012, 60%
followed in 2013, and project activities were largely (but not fully) completed by the
November 30, 2014 closing date.

The PDO and intermediate level indicators were aligned with underlying PNPM Rural III
indicators while focusing on the achievements of the supplementary DMS project. An
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) analysis was undertaken to support the
achievement of the PDOs, in addition to a beneficiary survey to assess community
satisfaction with the outcomes. The intermediate indicators for high quality and sub-
project completion rates were relaxed somewhat to anticipate the pressures of a post-
disaster environment, while others were indicators for facilitation resources and audit
support were increased to ensure proper implementation and governance measures in a
risky environment. The adjustments to the intermediate indicators were appropriate for the
circumstances. The KPIs for the PDO were adequate, but would have been stronger with
the addition of an indicator that captured economic recovery.

Government commitment, stakeholder involvement, and participatory processes. GoI
played a central role in helping to prepare the project by sending a team to the affected
districts to assist district governments to identify the hardest-hit areas for participation.
The national team took an active role in launching and monitoring implementation.
Despite weaknesses in local government capacity in Mentawai, district and sub-district
governments actively participated to ensure coordination in the planning process and links
to BPMD and other disaster-related activities. Utilizing existing platforms and familiar
mechanisms made it possible for communities to complete the larger number of projects
enabled by the substantially larger block grants than they had previously managed under
the regular block grant.

Risks and risk mitigation measures. The overall project risk was rated “Medium-I” (low
likelihood-high impact), which may have been somewhat under-estimated owing to the
absence of several key factors. Much of the identified risk in the ongoing PNPM Rural III
project remained relevant, with some additional risks specific to the post-disaster
environment. Key risks included in the Risk Assessment Framework included: (i)
marginalization of some villagers and heavy-handedness by village elites and local
government over use of the block grants owing to the need for speedy implementation in
post-disaster situations; (ii) potential for duplication, overlap and poor coordination among
government and NGO programs to support reconstruction; (iii) institutional and managerial
capacity of PMD, which was already overseeing the national scale up of the PNPM Rural
III program; (iv) potential delays in disbursements, which was the case in Mentawai; and
(v) the need for additional monitoring and evaluation support and oversight. Two additional
risks should have been included in the risk assessment and mitigation plan:

(i)      Risks stemming from inadequate facilitation.              Community participation,
         identification of projects, planning, budgeting, implementation and project quality
         would all have benefited from two additional experienced facilitators (one social
         and one technical) in each sub-district, instead of the one newly-recruited assistant
         facilitator and local cadre they received to handle the increased workload.
(ii)     Risks in working in very remote and isolated areas. See section 2.2 below for more
         detailed discussion.

The project’s Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. While weaknesses were
noted in the section above, the inclusion of the two key factors in the risk matrix noted
above – together with actions to mitigate them – would have effectively anticipated the
additional challenges with the project.

2.2      Implementation

The project was affected by factors that supported and challenged implementation efforts,
and which were both within and outside government control.

Factors outside the control of the government or the implementation agency:

Supporting: The disasters in the targeted areas were relatively short-lived
The earthquake and tsunami in Mentawai were one-time events, and the intensive danger
period for the eruption affecting Central Java and Yogyakarta lasted from October–
December, 2010 and residents began returning to their villages in early 2011. 7 This meant
that communities could begin damage assessments and recovery efforts relatively quickly.

Challenging: Mentawai’s remote location and the isolation of target sub-districts
A number of factors contributed to lengthy delays in project implementation and were the
primary reasons for the extensions of the closing dates noted in Section 1.7. The population
was scattered across four islands. There was a high turnover in facilitators as many did not
want to live or stay for extended periods in Mentawai. This resulted in a lack of continuity
in facilitation and added to delays. Facilitators were already struggling to complete their
regular PNPM workload, and the additional DMS funds spread facilitation resources even
more thinly. Basic construction materials were not available locally in sufficient quantities
and were difficult to procure. Transportation was problematic: only one boat per week from
the provincial capital, Padang, infrequent and irregular transport between the four islands,

7 In comparison, Mt. Sinabung in North Sumatra started large-scale eruptions in September 2013 and again in February

2014, and residents were displaced for seven months or longer.
and limited, poor quality and expensive land transportation. Telecommunications capacity
was limited and irregular.

Factors subject to the control of the government or the implementation agency:

The key activity planned for Component III was the hiring of disaster recovery specialists
(special technical advisory services) to work with the communities in each of the disaster-
affected areas. However, in 2012 the GoI established permanent disaster coordination
bodies at the provincial and district levels as part of the implementation of the Law on
Disaster Management (Law No. 24 of 2007), which changed the local institutional and
operational environment for the DMS project. In response, MoHA determined that existing
facilitators with some assistance could effectively implement the project activities in
coordination with the permanent local bodies. This resulted in two further implementation
adjustments to Components II and III: (i) PMD hired one post-disaster specialist to work
with the NMC to provide technical support including training and advice to subnational
facilitators in the affected areas and to liaise with the Badan Pemberdayaan Masyarakat
Desa (Village Community Empowerment Agencies or BPMDs), and (ii) the Provincial
Regional Management Consultants (RMCs) hired one additional assistant facilitator and
one additional local cadre for each sub-district team. Given the changes in implementation,
the GoI and WB agreed to close the Trust Fund supporting Component III without
disbursement as part of the December 2012 restructuring. These responses were generally
appropriate, although implementation would have been better supported by ensuring
additional facilitators hired in post-disaster areas were experienced, as detailed in Section
6.

Supporting: Strong institutional commitment
The project had strong political commitment at the central level of government, which
translated into appropriate adaptation in implementation. This is reflected in strengthened
oversight and visits from the joint task force established by PMD in response to the gaps
in local management and implementation delays experienced in Mentawai. PMD’s
commitment to assist recovery in these areas is also seen in the flexible development of
initial cash-for-work programs in Central Java and Yogyakarta to facilitate the quick return
of residents to their villages. In addition, to address the extensive delays in Mentawai,
beginning in mid-2013, PMD intensified supervision and support from NMC and the
Provincial Consultants, established a special task force focused solely on project
completion in Mentawai, and performance in that location improved from 8% project
completion to 84% of projects completed by November 30, 2014.

Supporting: Effective anti-corruption strategy
Individuals and independent organizations in beneficiary communities did use channels of
communication established by the project (such as the complaints handling unit or
individual facilitators) to report four incidences of corruption as detailed in Section 2.4
(Fiduciary and Governance).

Challenging: Centralized program management
The implementing agency’s capacity to take corrective and timely actions was hampered
by its centralized management structure – issues had to be passed up the administrative
chain for resolution. Coupled with weak local government and consultant team overseeing
implementation in remote Mentawai, communications both upwards (to PMD) or
downwards (to the sub-district) were inadequate and delays began building early on: at
end-2012 (the original closing date), 40% of funds were disbursed in Mentawai and no
projects completed (accounting for 10% of total sub-projects and 19% of the total block
grants), compared to 98% disbursement and nearly complete sub-projects in Central Java
and D.I. Yogyakarta (90% of total sub-projects and 81% of the block grants). Highly
centralized management also underlined the challenges stemming from the “flea versus
elephant” problem especially during the early period of implementation: the DMS project
(US$14.1 million in 18 sub-districts) and PNPM Rural III/IV (US$2,361.7 million
combined GOI and WB resources in 4,791 sub-districts over a roughly similar period)
competed for scarce management attention, making it difficult for PMD/NMC to focus on
remedies for human resources and other gaps in the disaster-affected areas (a risk identified
at the time of appraisal). However, this effect diminished over time as the PNPM scale-up
became more fully established.

Challenging: Weak local government commitment and capacity in Mentawai
Mentawai was established as a district in 1999 and already-weak government capacity was
strained by the earthquake and tsunami. Support from the district government’s
coordination team (Satker) was limited, and they were unable to carry out coordination
tasks with individuals and offices at the sub-district level.

Midterm Review. There was no midterm review because the project was viewed as a short
term response to the natural disasters and expected to be implemented in approximately 20
months. Indeed, the Java portion of the project (81% of the Grant) was completed within
the original 20 month timeframe. Only the Mentawai portion required extra time due to
the weak implementation capacity, geographical remoteness, and unavailability of
construction materials as cited above.

Effectiveness of risk mitigation. With the exception of the two residual risks identified
in Section 2.1, mitigation of the risks identified in the PAD was generally satisfactory.
Improvements to PNPM Rural’s fiduciary and governance systems were largely effective
in minimizing corruption, and communities expressed strong confidence in the system’s
transparency. PMD’s capacity was stretched, especially in Mentawai, but the fiduciary
systems and procedures were generally satisfactory. The Environmental Management
Framework, the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Isolated
and Vulnerable Peoples’ Planning Framework were integrated into the technical operations
manual (PTO) for successful safeguards implementation.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The project measured progress against key performance indicators using
PNPM Rural’s standard management information system (MIS), augmented by several
quantitative surveys and the findings of regular implementation support missions. At
appraisal, the MIS in place to monitor and evaluate PNPM Rural III was used to monitor
and evaluate the implementation of the DMS Project. Additional outcome indicators were
added to reflect the post-disaster nature of sub-projects and augmented facilitation linked
to the additional financing – these were feasible, easily monitored, and illustrated how the
project implementation was strengthened to deal with the post-disaster conditions.
Additional information was to be gathered through regular field visits by the facilitators,
RMC, NMC, PMD and PSF. The PAD also identified technical evaluations to be carried
out at the end of the project to measure beneficiary satisfaction and an EIRR.

There were some weaknesses in the M&E design. Specifically, one (of the four) units of
measurement and the targets value did not match the indicator: “Project beneficiaries” was
mismatched to “% of disaster-affected villages assisted;” and one (out of six) of the IRIs
relating to the number of subprojects completed had no target value against which to
measure progress or success. However, overall, both cases did not have detrimental effects
on the project. The indicators were clarified through supervision and it was agreed that the
baseline value at the project’s outset would be established through the total number of
subprojects proposed.

M&E implementation. In practice, routine project monitoring suffered from two types
of information collection problems. Firstly, the project encountered problems with the MIS
when the project website (http://www.pnpm-perdesaan.co.id) that updated data on a
monthly basis was unable to handle the PNPM Rural scale-up and become inoperative in
December 2011, just before community planning began for the 2012 block grants. Good
communications infrastructure meant that DMS project reporting from Central Java and
Yogyakarta was maintained through the completion of the sub-projects in December 2012,
supplemented by field visits. Secondly, reporting from Mentawai was delayed and
incomplete due to the lack of telecommunications at the village level, irregular
telecommunications access at the sub-district and district level, high turnover and frequent
absence of facilitators, and weak local program management, which affected overall
project implementation in this remote location, not just M&E. Once these and other issues
were identified, PMD using its PNPM Rural and disaster experience and reporting, revised
its support and supervision strategy in Mentawai. Additional GoI technical missions,
followed by monthly visits by the Jakarta-based disaster response specialist and Provincial
consultants, and intensive GoI-Bank support missions were critical for improving project
performance, especially during the last 18 months. The data collected from these missions
to Mentawai were essential to: (i) identify and remedy facilitation problems and to
incorporate better controls as the project progressed, (ii) improve accountability for sub-
grants, (iii) escalate issues to PMD management, as appropriate, and (iv) document
progress against the indicators. In addition, the EIRR analysis and beneficiary survey
defined in Annex 1 of the PAD were completed, and summary details of the results are
contained in this report in Annex 3 and Annex 5, respectively.

M&E utilization. As explained above, the utilization of the M&E data was compromised
by the fact that the MIS was unable to generate timely information throughout
implementation. To compensate for this shortcoming, both GoI and the Bank increased
their reliance on the findings of supervision and technical support missions (funded from
Bank Budget and trust funds supporting PNPM supervision activities) to monitor,
reconcile, verify and evaluate project implementation.

The overall M&E quality rating is rated as Modest.

2.4    Safeguard Compliance

Overall, safeguards compliance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project acquired the
same Category B classification as PNPM Rural III. and triggered the same safeguard
policies related to environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01), natural habitats (OPBP 4.04),
indigenous peoples (OP/BP4.10), and involuntary resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The
Implementation Guidelines for Social and Environmental Safeguards (IGSES) were
satisfactorily prepared and disclosed in 2013, and were disclosed again in March 2014 as
part of the revised PTO.

Environmental Safeguards:             Implementation of Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP4.01) is rated moderately satisfactory. Appropriate environmental safeguards were
included in the operations manual, but with a cap of $35,000 and average sub-project size
of $25,000, it was not possible to reach the threshold to trigger a formal assessment
required under the Bank’s OP/BP 4.01. However, while there were no significant negative
impacts noted in all project locations, there was weak awareness of general environmental
safeguards in Mentawai, mainly as a result of weak facilitation noted elsewhere in this
report. Supervision missions noted that communities used dead coral rubble for building
material in a remote area where there was no access to alternatives. The rubble consisted
of already-dead coral washed up on the shore, and the teams found there was no significant
environmental impact from this traditional practice, especially considering the small
number and size of the projects. While damage to communities from the earthquake and
tsunami required a steadfast response, all sub-projects were implemented in accordance
with the plan for the construction of permanent residences (Hunian Tetap) implemented by
the Government.

Implementation of Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) is rated as moderately satisfactory for
the same reason of weak implementation stemming from weak facilitation. A mission
identified sub-projects in a new settlement away from coastal area on land formally
provided by the Ministry of Forestry with appropriate documentation, but still classified as
protected forest. This was eventually resolved by the Ministry of Forestry. There were no
issues in Central Java or Yogyakarta, accounting for 90% of the sub-projects and 81% of
block grants.

Social Safeguards: Implementation of Involuntary Resettlements Policy (OP/BP 4.12
is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The PNPM operational manual includes a planning
and verification framework to ensure that any land acquisition is well-documented both
in terms of its voluntary nature and the lack of any significant economic impact on
villagers. Field engineers are trained in the land donation procedures and failure to record
voluntary contributions in project documents is grounds for dismissal. However,
supervision missions confirmed there were instances of absent documentation or
certificates for donated land for sub-projects and this generated the potential for future
conflict. On the other side, the project generated substantial social benefits through
investments in disaster risk management strategies, and by facilitating villagers’ return to
their homes and communities through cash-for-work activities.

Implementation of Indigenous Persons (OP/BP 4.10) is rated satisfactory. PNPM
follows all best-practice principles for indigenous people’s involvement, and participation
is entirely voluntary. While there are indigenous persons in Mentawai, none were
identified in the affected project areas.

Fiduciary & Governance: The project’s fiduciary and governance compliance is rated as
satisfactory. The PNPM Rural III audit target of 20% of sub-districts was increased to 25%
to address the risks associated with implementation in disaster-affected areas. The actual
external audit rate was 39%, with all four sub-districts in Mentawai (an additional 22%)
completing internal audits. External audits for 2011, 2012 and 2013 were submitted with
unqualified opinions. Planned external audits of 2014 activities in Mentawai will be
submitted in 2015. In addition to external audits, good governance was supported by the
complaints handling mechanism: two cases were reported of misuse of funds by a sub-
district UPK worth a total of Rp. 82 million (about US$10,000 at the then-prevailing
exchange rate) were fully repaid, while two remaining cases of suspected mark up of
invoices for heavy equipment services were under investigation at the time the project
closed. These were subsequently resolved after the closing date with assistance from the
District Facilitator and Provincial Complaint Handling Specialist, the projects were
completed and have been formally handed over to the communities. Four complaints out
of 781 community projects is evidence of an effective governance strategy.

Procurement: The project’s procurement compliance is rated as moderately satisfactory.
The June 2014 ex-post review of DMS community procurement activities from 2013 and
early 2014 noted they were carried out in accordance with the old PTO, as the revised PTO
was not finalized until April 2014. Despite weaknesses in the old PTO that fostered non-
transparent processes 8, no major noncompliance issues were identified. The overall rating
is based on the ex-post review and the finalization of the revised PTO in April 2014. The
Bank also recommended PMD develop mechanisms for combining contracts and
consolidating procurement procedures to overcome barriers to materials access in remote
areas.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Operations and Maintenance. No transitional arrangements are necessary. Following
standard PNPM Rural mechanisms, the responsibility for operation and maintenance
(O&M) has been assumed by the community through the establishment of O&M teams
during the accountability meetings. These teams are responsible for collecting fees for
operating costs as well as for the provision of regular infrastructure maintenance. Out of

8
 The new PTO simplified the procurement language to make it more accessible to villagers, and established
a separate community procurement team where previously procurement had been done by the village-level
project implementation team (TPK).
781 total sub-projects, 97% have been officially handed over to communities together with
O&M provisions. PMD reported that 12 projects in Mentawai were incomplete by the
project closing date and an additional 10 were completed but not yet formally handed over
to the communities. These 22 (13%) would not yet have active O&M plans. GoI
documented 100% of the projects in Central Java and D.I. Yogyakarta were operational in
May 2013 and 87% had good quality O&M. The consultant survey in Central Java in
December 2014 reported that 86% of projects were managed well or very well, including
ongoing O&M. (See Annex 3).

Follow-up projects. The PTO used for activities in disaster-affected areas will be retained
for use in any future emergencies.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objective, Design and Implementation

Rating for Relevance of Objective, Design and Implementation:

Relevance of Objective: Substantial

This project was well-aligned with the Bank’s CPS of 2009-2012 (Report No. 45381,
September 11, 2008 and remained aligned with the Bank’s 2013-2015 CPS (Report No.
74422, December 11, 2012), where it fits three key engagement areas: (i) Promoting
Communities, Protecting the Vulnerable and Improving Health Outcomes, (ii) Ensuring
Sustainable Development and Improving Disaster Resilience, and (iii) Gender and
Governance. At completion, the project was still highly relevant to the objectives of both
the Bank and the GoI: it targeted support to disaster-affected communities through PNPM
-- the key GoI strategy for improving existing government programs, strengthening
institutions, and enhancing the links between different levels of government. The project
also supported the practical implementation of community-based disaster risk management
under the GOI’s Disaster Management Law (Law No. 24/2007), providing active
participation from local government and community members in the planning,
implementation, and monitoring of disaster management programs.

Relevance of Design and Implementation: Substantial

The design and implementation of the DMS project remained relevant as they were built
upon the previous PNPM Rural projects; built on experience implementing disaster
recovery activities in other affected regions; and according to field discussions with local
disaster management agencies and communities, the project was a central mechanism in
realizing the CDRM approach. There is a convincing causal chain between project
activities and socio-economic development – the first element of the PDO. Recovery of
economic and social infrastructure are expected to provide access to villages, restore access
to markets, town centers, education and health facilities, and clean water supplies, while
also restoring business opportunities and employment for villagers.
Seventy-five percent of beneficiaries surveyed were satisfied with the project and resulting
infrastructure (see the Beneficiary Survey results in Annex 5). The implementation
strategy–community prioritization, planning and implementation of projects with technical
facilitation support–remains also relevant in a country of 17,000 islands where the
government often finds it challenging to provide routine basic services. Furthermore, the
delays experienced in implementation affecting only 10% of the total sub-projects stem
from the difficulties in serving extremely remote areas—not necessarily stemming from
the disaster—and were overcome by making available supporting resources sufficient to
enable communities to complete the planned tasks. These results suggest that the design
and approach remained relevant, but require stronger or customized support to overcome
the specific challenges demonstrated in Mentawai.

3.2      Achievement of Project Development Objective

Rating: Substantial

Communities in regions of Java and Sumatra suffered greatly from natural disasters in late
2010, and while the nature of those disasters differed widely, the impact was the essentially
the same: their lives were upended, they lost vital infrastructure and incomes were cut or
disappeared. The project was designed to help them regain some control over their lives
and livelihoods by providing them the opportunity and the tools to assess the damages in
their own communities, determine ways they could reduce future risk, and prioritize and
build sub-projects such as roads, bridges, retention walls and evacuation shelters that met
their own expressed needs for restoring or improving their social and economic conditions.
The project also provides the governance tools to ensure the funds are spent efficiently.

Achieving improved socio-economic conditions: Substantial
Earlier PNPM Rural research results 9 have demonstrated that investments in rural
infrastructure have improved basic socio-economic conditions for communities by
providing access to transportation, access to basic services (such as health and clean water),
and opportunities for economic recovery for villagers in the project areas. Access to
transportation and basic services have helped households to reduce their transportation
costs while new economic opportunities, along with temporary employment provided by
sub-project implementation and access to the RLF, contributed to project outcomes of
increased household expenditure and improved access to economic and social services. In
a post-disaster environment, these benefits were augmented by the quick income
supplements from cash-for-work activities for 160,000 families returning to their homes
amounting to US$2.543 million which helped defray the costs families incurred returning
to their communities, replacing lost household goods, making basic repairs, or general
consumption smoothing during an uncertain period. Communities also reported important
intangible benefits from participation in strategy development for risk mitigation and
disaster response, and psychological benefits from having clear disaster responses prepared

9 PNPM-Rural Impact Evaluation. PSF. April 2012, A Qualitative Study: Impact of PNPM Rural in East Java, West

Sumatera, and South Sulawesi. PSF. April 2012. Economic Impact Analysis of Kecamatan Development Program
Infrastructure Projects. DSF. 2005, Ex-post Evaluation of KDP Infrastructure Projects. World Bank. 2001.
and ready to implement, along with simply restoring routines of work and community life
that came with cash-for-work activities. 10

Key performance indicators that measure whether or not the project achieved its objectives
are:

•    >50% of villages replace infrastructure lost to disaster. Infrastructure damage in 96%
     of the (204 of 213) villages 11 was repaired, with the exception of some coastal
     Mentawai villages that were relocated to higher ground and built new replacement
     infrastructure. Sixty-eight percent of all activities were related to: (i) rehabilitation &
     reconstruction; (ii) disaster mitigation & risk reduction; and (iii) economic and social
     recovery, as outlined in the technical operations manual, and contributed to improved
     socio-economic well-being in the target communities reflected in the satisfaction levels
     (below).

•    Minimum 80% satisfaction levels from beneficiaries regarding improved services and
     local level governance. PMD reports 12 that the sub-projects reached 491,699
     beneficiaries, in addition to providing 700,000 paid cash-for-work days. Seventy-two
     percent of residents were satisfied or very satisfied with the infrastructure sub-
     projects, 13 which is slightly below the 80% target. However, if weights based on
     proportion of projects built are applied to the satisfaction ratings found in the survey,
     the overall level of satisfaction rises to 83%, meeting the project target.

                                                    Positive      % of Sub-
                                                Satisfaction       projects
                 Type of Infrastructure                Level           built      Weight
                 Roads & Bridges                        90%             51%           .74
                 Irrigation                             67%          15.1%            .22
                 Clean water systems                    51%            2.9%           .04
                 Weighted average                       83%

     An additional proxy for satisfaction levels can be measured by the extent to which
     communities benefit from, actively use and maintain sub-projects, is reflected in their
     active maintenance of the sub-projects. The technical evaluation of infrastructure
     projects undertaken as part of the DMS EIRR evaluation showed that 93% of the sub-
     projects evaluated (built in 2012-2013) have a functioning community O&M team,
     reflecting the continued flow of services from the infrastructure, and socio-economic
     benefits accruing to the community.




10 Based on comments from community members during discussions held as part of the ICR preparation process.
11 PMD’s December 2014 Monthly Report and Project Completion Reports from the National Management Consultant;
and Klasifikasi Kegiatan Pasca Bencana, 2012.
12 Ibid.
13 Laporan Akhir Studi Kecil Dampak PNPM Mandiri Perdesaan Pola Khusus Pasca Bencana Wilaya Jawa Tengah,

January 2015.
•     Economic Internal Rates of Return (EIRRs) >30 % for major rural infrastructure types.
      The EIRR study (see Annex 3) found the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of
      individual sub-projects ranged from zero (for two non-functioning sub-projects) to
      341%. After adjustment for the outliers and to reflect a 5% annual decline in the benefit
      stream, the resulting 40% EIRR is still higher than the targeted 30%. 14 These results
      are consistent with the previous EIRR assessment of similar sub-projects built as part
      of PNPM Rural IV, which showed EIRR rates of between 35% to 50%. 15

•     > 70% Project Beneficiaries (and percentage female beneficiaries). PMD reported a
      total of 491,699 beneficiaries or 74% of the total population (662,706) residing in the
      in the 18 affected sub-districts. 16 Although no target value was identified for female
      beneficiaries, the percentage of female beneficiaries (50.42%) exceeds the targets
      established for the PNPM Rural program (at 49%). 17 This is in addition to the 700,000
      work days for 160,000 people (half women) created under the initial cash-for-work
      program in 2011.

Table 2: Number and category of DMS Sub-projects
                                                                 Central
                                                                 Java &                          Percentage
     Type of DMS sub-projects                           Mentawai  DIY                Total        of Total
     Rehabilitation & reconstruction                           9    169                178             23%
     Disaster mitigation & risk reduction                     17    256                273             35%
     Supporting infrastructure for relocation
     sites                                                        19           0           19              2%
     Economic & social recovery                                    5          57           62              8%
     General infrastructure development
     & non-infrastructure                                         25         224         249            32%
     Total                                                        75         706         781           100%
     Disaster-related                                             50         482         532            68%


The physical outputs of the project were significant. Sixty-eight percent of sub-projects
were directly related to the disasters, including 23% of sub-projects which replaced or
repaired lost or damaged infrastructure. Overall, communities built or repaired more than
188 km of roads, 98 irrigation systems, 63 schools and health facilities, 17 bridges and 19
water and sanitation systems (see Table A2.2 in Annex 2 for more detail).

Achieving improved governance: Substantial


14 Ibid.
15 Laporan Akhir Studi Skala Kecil Analyisis Manfaat Ekonomi Proyek Infrastruktur PNPM Mandiri Perdesaan. PSF.
July 2012.
16 PMD’s Project Completion Report, 2014, and Central Bureau of Statistics (BPS).
17 No targets for female and poor beneficiaries were established in the PNPM Rural III Program but PNPM Rural IV is

used as a comparison.
Because the DMS project was layered onto PNPM Rural and was identified as a part of
that program, the project acquired the same attributes as documented for PNPM Rural, for
example, the perception that the project was more transparent than other projects at village
level demonstrated the level of satisfaction beneficiaries have regarding the project’s local
governance conditions. 18 While one of the project’s IRIs fell slightly short of its intended
targets, improvements in local governance conditions resulting from the project can be
reflected in the following achievements:

      •   The project’s external audits, undertaken by GOI’s auditing entity BPKP, achieved
          an audit coverage of 39% in the higher-risk post-disaster environment, exceeding
          its project target of 25%, and substantially higher than the PNPM Rural target of
          20%. An additional 22% of sub-districts completed internal audits. Audit results
          for 2011, 2012 and 2013 were unqualified, and the final audit report for 2014 will
          be completed during 2015;
      •   The complaints handling system identified two modest cases of misuse of funds,
          both of which were fully repaid, and two possible cases of over-invoicing (see
          section 2.2 for more detail). This helped to reinforce the message to the public and
          communities that corruption would not be tolerated; and
      •   Seven hundred and fifty-nine (out of 781 projects) accountability meetings have
          been held at the village level at which local implementing teams have handed over
          projects to the community.

3.3       Efficiency

Rating: Substantial

Efficiency of infrastructure sub-projects. Efficiency was gauged by the economic rate
of return, and the unit rate norms of subprojects financed by the predecessor projects of
PNPM-Rural. As mentioned in Section 3.2, a study undertaken after the project closed in
November 2014 estimated the EIRRs of sub-projects financed by the DMS project
averaged 52%, which is higher than the targeted EIRR of 30% (see Annex 3). It is
reasonable to assume that the EIRRs of subprojects financed by PNPM Rural III-DMS
could be lower than the average presented in the study because the DMS study assumes
that benefits generated by a subproject remains constant over time until the end of its
service life, even though benefits will in practice gradually decline because of maintenance.
However, even if more conservative assumptions are used and benefits are estimated to
decline by 5% per year, the EIRR of most subprojects will, in all likelihood, remain above
the economic opportunity cost of capital (which the Bank estimates at 12% for developing
member countries), and are likely to remain higher than the project target of 30% (see
Annex 3 for details). In addition, more than 90% of the planned projects were completed
within the original timeframe (2011-2012) along with 87% of the block grants – 98% of
the block grants had disbursed in Java, compared to just 40% in Mentawai. The additional
23 months to provide necessary support enabled communities in the most remote areas to


18 The Local Level Institutions III: Overview Report. World Bank. 2013, and re-stated during ICR discussion groups at

the community level.
continue work, and 98% of all sub-projects were completed by the time the project closed
on November 30, 2014.


3.4        Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

While the relevance, efficacy and efficiency of the project are all rated substantial and the
four outcome indicators confirm it has achieved its development objectives, the overall
rating is moderately satisfactory. The overall rating is reduced to moderately satisfactory
owing to weaknesses in the results framework, the underestimation of key risks in the
design, and the resulting delays experienced in Mentawai together with the twelve
incomplete sub-projects there.

3.5        Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

After more than one and a half decades of implementation of CDD projects in Indonesia
which have been used with success to expedite and support disaster recovery in Aceh, Nias,
Papua, Nusa Tenggara Timur, West Sumatra Central Java and West Java, lessons learned
from various evaluations and studies have shown that CDD projects have had positive
impacts on community recovery through rehabilitation and reconstruction, development
and implementation of disaster mitigation strategies, and economic and social recovery.
The underlying foundation of PNPM Rural (and its predecessor, KDP) have demonstrated
the ability to help increase household consumption and improve access to economic and
social services. Evaluations also have shown that PNPM Rural and KDP are more effective
in reaching poor households and households in poor sub-districts 19 – all of which are key
in effective disaster response.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
       While there was no direct measurement of the poverty impact on communities, there
       are two facts that indicate the project was important for the poor: a) roads, bridges and
       irrigation – infrastructure with a critical impact on rural incomes via access to markets
       and increased agricultural productivity – accounted for 55% of all community sub-
       projects, and b) the satisfaction level for roads and irrigation was 90% and 67%
       (respectively).

       The DMS project saw women benefit from participation, accounting for 23% of
       approved proposals and just over half of the total beneficiaries–with women’s project
       satisfaction levels being somewhat higher than those of men. The lower levels of
       participation in project planning meetings as well as the lower percentage of women’s
       proposals being funded each year (they typically account for more than half of
       proposals funded in PNPM Rural) may reflect different stresses and constraints placed
       on women and families during times of crisis, or the tendency for families to return

19   PNPM Rural Impact Evaluation. PSF. 2012, Second Phase KDP Impact Evaluation. World Bank. 2008.
     later in the recovery process 20 and highlight an opportunity to improve future designs
     of this nature.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
     A 2013 study on local level institutions in Indonesia indicates that the project is
     associated with good transparency and in general has higher satisfaction rates compared
     to other development projects at the local level 21, views which were confirmed during
     group discussions with beneficiaries at the village level during ICR field visits. These
     positive achievements have contributed to the GOI’s decision to incorporate CDD
     principles such as participation/inclusion, community empowerment and
     accountability into the Disaster Management Law (Law Number 24 of 2012) and
     subsequently into the Village Law (Law Number 6 of 2014) as noted in Section 3.1.
     Moreover, communities visited during the ICR field mission consistently indicated that
     community-based disaster management strategies had an important impact on the
     communities – they were better prepared to act effectively when disaster next struck,
     and suggested updates on disaster preparedness needed to be included in the annual
     village planning meetings. This indicates an organic strengthening of local institutions
     as a result of processes supported in the DMS project.

3.6  Summary of Findings of the EIRR, Beneficiary Survey and Stakeholder
Workshops

EIRR and Beneficiary survey. As the project closed, two surveys were carried out: (i) a
review of the economic performance (EIRR) of sub-projects including assessments of the
technical and management quality of implementation, and (ii) a beneficiary survey of sub-
projects. The key findings of these studies are summarized in Section 3.2 (see Annex 3 and
Annex 5, respectively, for details on each).

Stakeholder workshop. On April 30, 2015, PSF met with key stakeholders in Jakarta. In
light of the transition of PNPM from MOHA implementation to the MoV, together with
the ongoing design of Village Law implementation, PSF and relevant stakeholders felt it
would be useful to focus the workshop on lessons learned and future disaster management.
To this end, representatives from MOHA/PMD, MoV, and the National Board for Disaster
Management (BNPB) met to discuss key issues for moving forward. Annex 6 contains a
summary and the key conclusions of this discussion.

4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The political risk is considered to be “Low”. While it is true that the achievements of PNPM
Rural and its associated post-disaster additions would not be sustainable in the event of a
withdrawal of local and national governmental support for CDD, such a withdrawal is
considered highly unlikely. Both the central and local governments have indicated a strong
20 Research and documentation on the behavior and role of women and families during disaster recovery would be useful

input for future projects.
21 The Local Level Institutions III: Overview Report. World Bank/PSF. 2013.
and long-term commitment to the financing of community-based poverty alleviation
programs, the new Village Law is a strong testament to the success of PNPM, and the
Disaster Management Law relies on CDD mechanisms at the local level.

The technical risk is rated “Moderate.” The results of the technical evaluation conducted
in Central Java at the end of the project, together with the findings from the last supervision
mission to Mentawai in June 2014, indicate that O&M remains generally satisfactory,
although it is a bit weaker in Mentawai (where 10% of the sub-projects are located) and
76% of those sampled had adequate O&M in place.

The social risk is rated as “Moderate.” While local governance remains relatively strong
as evidenced by the high numbers of beneficiaries in the DMS project. This is further
reinforced by the high proportion of PNPM Rural infrastructure still being used by
communities after a number of years. However, there is a marginal risk that the
sustainability of community ownership of the project could be undermined if issues are not
clearly addressed relating to transfer of project assets to the community as part of the
transition to the new Village Law.

The natural disaster risk is rated as “Substantial.” West Sumatra is adjacent to a major
tectonic thrust and scientists agree that a large earthquake off the west coast of Sumatra is
likely in the coming decades that will cause substantial destruction. Mt. Merapi in Java
has erupted regularly over the past 500 years. Communities may be better able to manage
the risk of recurrence as a result of the project, but will require additional assistance when
it happens.

Based on the above, the overall risk to development outcome is rated Moderate.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The design of the DMS project was based on the design of PNPM-Rural III, its predecessor
rural programs, and predecessor PNPM-linked disaster recovery projects, which were
considered at the time of appraisal to be successful, but with some corrective actions to
reflect lessons learned from these projects (notably the need for additional support for
facilitation, and governance improvements) and otherwise using the same implementation
arrangements. The Bank kept design changes to a minimum in order to ease
implementation in disaster-affected communities as it would have been imprudent to
introduce design changes along with substantial additional resources into a period of
emergency and disaster recovery. Utilizing the existing project structure was a factor in the
quick turnaround time for this project – four months from events to Board approval.
However, relevant risks for Mentawai that were not identified at the outset could have
improved the quality and speed of implementation; and certain weaknesses in the
formulation of indicators in the results framework could have been addressed. However,
in view of the Bank’s demonstrated efficiency in processing the project especially under
extenuating circumstances, and given that the majority of the Grant funds were
implemented as planned, Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as
“Moderately Satisfactory.”

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Administrative supervision was effective, including extending closing dates as appropriate,
identifying issues such as the unused trust fund which the GoI elected to cancel, and
facilitating the reallocation of remaining funds to use in disaster-affected areas in East Java
and North Sumatra. GoI issues and requests received timely responses; Aides-Memoire
identified issues early in the project cycle, were discussed constructively with GoI and
action plans were followed up. Evaluations in ISRs were generally consistent with the ICR
assessment.

The Bank mobilized a series of multi-disciplinary supervision teams with substantial
experience in supervising Bank-financed CDD projects in Indonesia, and experience in
remote areas. Regular implementation support missions were carried out in addition to
specific technical missions in the effort to expedite progress in Mentawai. The team was
able to identify and help GoI proactively address key issues adversely affecting
achievement of the PDO, notably problems in Mentawai with facilitation staffing and
performance, management, community procurement and safeguards issues, and flagged
this for attention by PMD. These missions resulted in a series of important
recommendations, including using NMC to strategically fill gaps in support from the
province and district, which was key to improving performance in Mentawai during the
last 18 months. Furthermore, in recognizing some of the shortcomings described in Section
5.1 (a), the evaluation studies implemented by the Bank, were designed to examine not just
the technical efficiency of the project’s investments, but more specifically, beneficiary
perceptions regarding the improved socio-economic and local governance conditions
created by the project.

Procurement and financial management issues were identified in Mentawai, and most were
addressed with the revised PTO issued in March 2014. The remaining FM issues stemmed
from high facilitator turnover and limited capacity building at the community level. Lack
of data on Mentawai’s tsunami-affected resettled communities, late identification of issues
for the communities resettled on Ministry of Forestry land (protected areas), and lack of
progress on documentation of donated land despite potential conflicts indicates that
safeguards supervision could have been strengthened.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


5.2    Borrower Performance
(a) Performance of the Government
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Throughout project design and implementation, the project enjoyed the strong support of
GoI. GoI responded quickly to the disasters, 22 working with district governments to
identify heavily affected areas, complete the identification of project locations by early
January, and launch preliminary activities by mid-January 23. GoI ensured that funds were
generally provided in a timely manner to the community – 84% of the funds were disbursed
by December 2012 – although rigidities in mid-year budget processes and timing caused
initial delays. Despite this, the Government was still able to ensure quality of preparation,
relatively smooth implementation, and compliance with the Grant Agreement.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As the Implementing Agency, PMD played an important role throughout the life of PNPM
Rural III-DMS for the overall implementation of the 781 sub-projects. During the same
period it was managing the massive scale-up of PNPM Rural from 2,800 sub-districts in
2007 to more than 4,500 in 2012. Ninety percent of the sub-projects accounting for 81%
of the block grants were completed on schedule in Java. The delays experienced in
Mentawai were due to the very remote location and inadequate facilitation, compounded
by lack of resources and weak local government. Weak oversight of activities in Mentawai
during the initial project period resulted in problems in financial management, lack of
transparency in implementation indicated low participation, and lack of safeguards training
and awareness among facilitators and communities was evident throughout the project
despite their inclusion in the project materials. These weaknesses were clearly evident in
safeguards, and could set the stage for future conflicts. The fact that there were enough
unused and uncommitted block grant funds in the Mentawai sub-districts to fund cash-for-
work programs without having to draw on DMS funds should have indicated there were
pre-existing capacity issues. Despite the difficult start, PMD marshaled their available
resources, reorganized, and turned the Mentawai program around during the last 18 months
of implementation – the result being 98% overall DMS sub-project completion. The
revision of the PNPM PTO and increase in facilitator benefits for the overall PNPM Rural
program also supported improvements during the later stage of the program, but did not
solve the problems with extremely high costs for facilitators in remote areas.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


22 The earthquake and tsunami hit Mentawai on October 25, 2010, and Mt. Merapi erupted on the same day. The volcanic

activity lasted until late November.
23 PNPM guidelines allow the reallocation of regular block grant funds to community-designated cash-for-work programs

during declared emergencies, and this was done in anticipation of the DMS project already under preparation and
informally endorsed by the Joint Management Committee of PSF.
Based on the performance of both the Government and the Implementing Agency, the
overall performance of the Borrower was also rated “Moderately Satisfactory.”

6.      Lessons Learned

     a. A clear and measurable results framework is essential. The results framework is
        intended to set clearly articulated targets for outcomes that the project is expected
        to achieve over time, and which can be periodically measured to indicate to what
        extent the targets have been achieved. Measurements or studies undertaken after
        the project has been completed may be useful for long-term assessment, but cannot
        be relied on for management purposes as they do not enable early detection of
        implementation weaknesses requiring management attention.

     b. Good community targeting is key, along with flexibility to meet local needs as they
        emerge. Two sub-districts receiving DMS block grants had no physical damage
        from the disaster, but suffered severe economic downturns as a result. For logical
        reasons, these communities had difficulty developing sub-projects linked to the
        disaster. Moreover, while the project’s basic operating system and facilitation
        platform are well known and have demonstrated their ability to serve communities
        under special circumstances, it requires substantial community effort to assess,
        plan, prioritize and implement activities. For the very early stages of recovery
        community-administered cash-for-work programs may be more appropriate, and
        adequate flexibility should be built into the project design to adapt to this.

     c. The rigidity of Government bureaucratic and budgetary processes, including the
        PNPM Rural annual project cycle means that it often takes months before
        community-based disaster response activities can begin. It would be useful to
        explore options under the new Village Law that could provide some flexibility
        during times of officially declared disasters.

     d. Remote areas present unique challenges for PNPM Rural – and those challenges
        are intensified during periods of disaster. Facilitation is critical to enable
        communities to implement good quality activities, and Mentawai suffered from
        vacancies and high turnover even before the earthquake and tsunami hit. Coupled
        with the scarcity of building materials and lack of infrastructure, this was a very
        difficult implementing environment. Special strategies are needed to ensure that
        adequate resources are available to reflect real scarcity and high costs, including
        the cost of good facilitation.

     e. Disaster-affected communities need adequate facilitation resources. The additional
        block grants from the DMS Grant funds sometimes quadrupled and quintupled the
        workload for facilitators, often while they faced broken infrastructure needed to do
        their jobs. Communities need adequate support – in the form of additional,
        experienced social and technical facilitators – to ensure sound implementation and
        to avoid disempowering communities through failed projects. Protocols to enable
        fast and effective Central-level support for such locations (e.g. by way of National
        Disaster Management Facilitators/Consultants) as a stop-gap until adequately
         qualified personnel are recruited may also be a consideration going forward.
         Incentives (e.g. emergency allowances, the addition of “special skills” in
         professional facilitation qualifications, or priority for future advancement) should
         be developed that encourage experienced, skilled workers to step up in times of
         disasters, and for any new recruits to be allocated to more stable environments.

      f. In recurrent, high-risk areas (such as around volcanoes), CDRM mechanisms can
         be integrated into the village planning process. Communities would benefit from
         closer coordination with the local Disaster Management Agency (BPBD) which
         requires continuous awareness and planning. The Disaster Management Law and
         the Village Law can be mutually supportive in these areas, and good community
         participation as part of the annual process can help provide pro-active risk reduction
         & disaster management strategies.



7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a)      Borrower/Implementing agencies
(b)      Cofinanciers/Development Partners
(c)      Other partners and stakeholders
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                     Appraisal       Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Components                           Estimate        Estimate         Appraisal
                                     (US$ millions) (US$ millions)*
Kecamatan Grants                                12.9             13.9           107.7
Facilitation Support                             1.0                0               0
Implementation Support and Technical
Assistance                                       0.2                0               0
Total Baseline Cost                             14.1             13.9            98.5
Physical Contingencies                           0.0                -               0
Price Contingencies                              0.0                -               0
Total Project Costs                             14.1             13.9            98.5
Front-end fees                                   0.0                -               0
Total Financing Required                        14.1             13.9            98.5
*Provisional figures (minor differences may arise between these data and final loan closing data)

     b) Financing

                                                      Appraisal       Actual/Latest Percentage        of
Source of Funds                                       Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
                                                      (US$ millions) (US$ millions)*
Borrower                                                            0              0                  0
Communities                                                         0              0                  0
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD)                                                14.1                  13.9    98.5
Co-Financiers                                                            0                     0       0
Total                                                                 14.1                  13.9    98.5
*Provisional figures (minor differences may arise between these data and final loan closing data)

Two Trust Funds were initially established to fund these activities:
  • TF-98819 in the amount of US$13.9 million was intended to fund Component I:
      Kecamatan Grants (US$12.9 million), and Component II: Facilitation Support
      (US$1.0 million)
  • TF-98862 in the amount US$0.2 was intended to fund Component III:
      Implementation Support and Technical Assistance

When the project extension was negotiated in December 2012, it was judged that resources
under the larger TF-98819 would be adequate to fund all activities, and the GOI and World
Bank agreed to allow TF-98862 to close without disbursements. As a result, the total value
of the Grant was reduced to US$13.9 million.


Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component I: Kecamatan Grants

Overview. This component first provided grants for cash-for-work programs during 2011
in Central Java and Yogyakarta 24. As detailed in the operational guidelines, one member
of a household could participate in these activities, resulting in communities implementing
2,709 work activities with more than 700,000 paid work days benefitting a reported
160,000 people/households as they returned to their home villages.

Block grants were provided to 18 disaster-affected kecamatan in West Sumatra, Central
Java and Yogyakarta beginning in 2012 to finance 781 competitive grant proposals selected
by communities according to priorities resulting from the community disaster assessments,
and benefitting 491,699 people (73% of the population, more than half women). Block
grant amounts ranged from IDR 4 billion (US$453,000) for less-severely affected areas, to
IDR 6 billion (US$679,000) for those areas suffering the heaviest impact (Table A2.1).
These disaster-related block grants were substantially larger than standard PNPM Rural
block grants, which ranged from IDR 750 million to IDR 3 billion per kecamatan per year,
depending on population, poverty incidence and location. Investments took place in: (i)
physical infrastructure, (ii) social programs, and (iii) revolving loan funds. As with PNPM
Rural block grants, communities were allowed to allocate a maximum of 25% of the total
DMS kecamatan block grant amount to revolving loan funds to support economic recovery
(provided that the recipient RLF had a repayment rate of at least 80%), although only five
out of the 18 sub-districts chose this option and the RLF only amounted to just 4.2% of the
total block grant allocation.

Women proposed 21% of the sub-projects selected for use of the block grants. Most block
grants for infrastructure and social programs were allocated to village roads, retaining walls
and irrigation systems, followed by investments in education facilities and revolving loan
funds (Table A2.2). Tracking the projects as shown in Table A2.3 reveals that 68% of the
activities were classified into three disaster-related categories: (i) rehabilitation &
reconstruction; (ii) disaster mitigation & risk reduction; and (iii) economic and social
recovery. These categories follow the instructions in the technical operations manual
provided to facilitators, and is a more appropriate indicator of PDO achievement than
simply rehabilitation & reconstruction as entered in the results framework. This is
particularly true in areas such as Mentawai where the nature of the disaster (earthquake
and tsunami) generated activities that often supported communities moving to new
locations on higher ground, with no rehabilitation or reconstruction at the original
locations.

Overall, female beneficiaries were calculated at 50.42% of the total. These included
women in 127 revolving loan groups consisting of 10 – 15 members each (1,250-1,900
women) who received block grant allocations in five sub-districts. The sub-districts which
chose this option were among the larger, better-performing revolving loan funds – all were
larger than the median RLF in Central Java with the largest assets nationally, Yogyakarta
was the best performing province nationally with an NPL of 5% at end-2013, and Central

24   West Sumatra cash-for-work programs were funded from unspent block grant resources.
Java was the fourth-best with an NPL of 12%, compared to the national average of 30%.
This data is used as a proxy for local performance because detailed performance data on
the revolving loan fund by subdistrict is not available now that PNPM Rural activities have
ceased and the NMC has closed.

The project’s investments in rural infrastructure mentioned above have provided many of
the same benefits as regular PNPM Rural project activities, such as access to transportation,
access to basic services (such as health and education), and opportunities for economic
activities for villagers in the project areas. While access to transportation helps households
reduce their transportation costs and expand economic opportunities, in disaster-affected
areas it also means evacuation routes have been prepared and clearly marked along with
supporting infrastructure along the way. Rehabilitation of basic health and education
facilities together with the temporary employment provided by the projects and the
revolving loan funds, all enabled families to return to their villages and re-establish normal
community life.

Table A2.1: Locations and number of proposals funded by the Project

                                              damage            # sub-
                      Location                level            projects
                      West Sumatra
                      Kab. Kepulauan
                      Mentawai
                        Pagai Utara           very heavy             18
                        Sipora Selatan        very heavy             16
                        Sikakap               very heavy             20
                        Pagai Selatan         very heavy             21
                      Central Java
                      Kab. Magelang
                        Borobudur             heavy                  62
                        Ngluwar               medium                 29
                        Salam                 heavy                  44
                        Srumbung              very heavy             61
                        Dukun                 very heavy             58
                        Sawangan              heavy                  50
                        Mungkid               heavy                  47
                      Kab. Boyolali
                        Selo                  heavy                  29
                        Cepogo                heavy                  29
                        Musuk                 heavy                  38
                      Kab. Klaten
                        Manisrenggo           very heavy             56
                        Karangnongko          very heavy             75
                        Kemalang              very heavy             84
                      Yogyakarta
                                                  damage        # sub-
                      Location                    level        projects
                      Kab. Sleman
                        Cangkringan               very heavy        44
                                                                   781


Table A2.2: Types and Number of Sub-projects Financed by the Project

                                             Central
                                             Java &
           Type                   Mentawai      DIY     Total              %
           Roads*                          42      274      316            40%
           Retaining walls                  0      154      154            20%
           Irrigation                       1        97       98           13%
           RLF Credit                       0        51       51            7%
           Education facilities             9        42       51            7%
           Health facilities                6         6       12            2%
           General infrastructure           1        21       22            3%
           Drains & culverts                1        19       20            3%
           Water & sanitation               3        16       19            2%
           Bridges                          5        12       17            2%
           Weirs & flood control            0        11       11            1%
           Education & training             5         2        7            1%
           Relocation site prep             2         0        2            0%
           Markets                          0         1        1            0%
           Total                           75      706      781           100%
           *totaling 188 km
           Source: Project MIS System (31 December 2014)

188 km of roads, 98 irrigation systems, 63 schools and health facilities, 17 bridges and 19
water and sanitation systems (see Table A2.2 in Annex 2 for more detail).
Table A2.3: Disaster-related Sub-projects

                                                        Central
                                                        Java &
                                               Mentawai  DIY            Total       %
   Rehabilitation & Reconstruction                    9    169            178       23%
   Disaster mitigation & risk reduction              17    256            273       35%
   Supporting infrastructure for relocation
   sites                                        19                 0        19       2%
   Economic & social recovery                    5                57        62       8%
   General Infrastructure development           25               224       249      32%
   Total                                        75               706       781     100%
   Disaster related                             50               482       532      68%
   Source: Project MIS System (31 December 2014)

Sustainability. Based on a 2013 exercise on infrastructure quality mapping covering all
of Central Java and Yogyakarta, 91% of the infrastructure projects built under the DMS
project included in the evaluation were considered high quality. The challenges of good
O&M were mitigated in PNPM Rural by formally appointing village-level O&M
committees at the time the project is completed and formally handed over to the
community, with the objective of improving governance by instilling local ownership.
According to NMC technical evaluations in Central Java and Yogyakarta in 2014 (more
than one year after sub-project completion), 100% of the infrastructure sub-projects were
operational, and 87% were being well-maintained. Quality and O&M information is more
difficult to obtain from Mentawai, but the Central Java and Yogyakarta figures alone yield
78% satisfactory maintenance of infrastructure sub-projects over the entire project, which
exceeds the 50% target.

Component II: Facilitation Support

Each province, district and sub-district has an established structure of PNPM Rural
facilitators, including technical, financial and social facilitators at the sub-district
(kecamatan) level, and technical facilitators at the district (kabupaten) level. With the
assistance of local cadres in each village, these facilitators help strengthen inter-village
organizations and forums, and assist local government coordination and oversight. The
original intent of this component under the DMS project was to finance additional
facilitators, including disaster management specialists, in each of the target districts and
sub-districts to support district and sub-district government institutions, assist communities
with the disaster assessment process, provide training, etc.

Shortly after this series of natural disasters struck, the GOI made major revisions to its
disaster response mechanisms in the Disaster Risk Management Law (Law No. 12 of
2007), establishing permanent national and provincial coordinating bodies, and permanent,
dedicated agencies at the district level. 25 Considering these changes, GOI chose an
alternative strategy of adding an assistant facilitator and a local assistant for each of the 18
disaster-affected sub-districts, plus a national disaster management specialist based in
Jakarta. This strategy worked reasonably well, although sub-district facilitators and village
implementation teams emphasized the need for experienced facilitators – both social and
technical – when faced with such dramatic increases in workloads (some sub-districts
quadrupled or quintupled their project implementation as a result of the DMS project).

The strategy was less successful in Mentawai, where weak government management
combined with very challenging working conditions in a remote location meant that there
was a near-constant shortage of facilitators and very high turnover. Facilitators were
having a difficult time meeting program requirements before the earthquake and tsunami
hit the islands (where the block grants had ranged from IDR 1.75-3 billion), and the
increased workload coming from the additional DMS block grant of IDR 5 billion,
complicated by weak management support, meant that the full program was beyond their
capacity to implement. Additional skilled assistance was required, and the national disaster
management specialist played a key role in supporting facilitators in Mentawai during
2013-2014, including monthly visits during 2014 to help resolve problems and sustain
implementation momentum.

Ultimately, Components I & II were consolidated as part of the extension process in
December 2012, and all costs were drawn from this consolidated Component 1 budget.

Component III: Implementation Support and Technical Assistance

PNPM Rural is managed by a Project Management Unit (PMU) in PMD, with technical
assistance provided through a National Management Consultant (NMC) at the central level,
and Regional Management Consultants (RMCs) at the central and provincial level. The
activities under Component III were intended to finance technical advisory services,
training and other material support for DMS project implementation at the national,
provincial, district, and sub-district levels, including training, monitoring and evaluation
and enhanced technical and financial audits. The Jakarta-based national disaster
management specialist was hired by the NMC in 2013, who was strategic in organizing
increased support to Mentawai from the provincial and district consultants in addition to
his own monthly support visits.

Ultimately, the financial audits were fully integrated into the main PNPM Rural activities,
and the additional costs for technical assessments and the national disaster management
specialist engaged by the National Management Consultant (NMC) were drawn from the
resources in the main Trust Fund (TF-98819). For these reasons, the actual costs in the
tables in Annex 1 are shown as zero.



25Provincial and district disaster management bodies were previously ad hoc appointments of local government officials
drawn from various sectors at the time of a declared disaster, and they returned to their home agencies once the emergency
was past. The new permanent agencies are intended to professionalize the services and maintain continuity while
incorporating principles of community-based disaster risk management (CDRM).
Table A2.4: Incomplete projects at closing date
                                                                    average
                                 Mentawai Sub-             No.    completion
                                 district                projects    level
                                 Pagai Selatan                  9        84%
                                 Pagai Utara                    2        72%
                                 Sikakap                        1        98%
                                 Total                         12       83%


Intermediate results indicators. The targets for all but one of the intermediate results
indicators were achieved, the exception being the minimum 50% participation rate for
women and the poor in planning and decision-making meetings. The project exceeded all
other IRIs, including O&M arrangements in place as well as audits carried out, both of
which further underscore improvements in governance.

            IRI                          Achievement                              Comments
 1. Minimum 50%                     Below target.                •    PNPM Rural III only established a 45%
 participation rate of              Women’s partici-                  target value for the participation rate of
 women and poorest                  pation in planning and            women and poorest community
 community members in               decision making                   members in planning and decision-
 planning and decision-             meetings was 42.4%,               making meetings. In addition, while the
 making meetings                    while participation of            participation rates of the poor in the
                                    the poor was 28.5%.               planning       and      decision-making
                                                                      meetings appear to be significantly
                                                                      lower than the target, PMD reported
                                                                      that 44.7% of project beneficiaries
                                                                      came from poor households.
 2. Number and type of              No target set in the         •    While no target value was established,
 infrastructure works,              Results Framework.                using a similar comparator in PNPM
 economic, and education            However, a baseline               Rural III where a target value of >85%
 and health sub-                    of 781 projects was               of work plans were to be completed
 projects/activities                planned from the                  each year, 98% is a good result. See
 completed in selected              outset of the project.            Annex 2 for sub-project details.
 disaster areas.                    769 out of 781sub-
                                    projects (98%) have
                                    been completed and
                                    are operational.

 3. Minimum 70% of                  Target exceeded.             •    PMD/NMC            evaluation         of
 infrastructure works are           Evaluations range                 infrastructure quality in Central Java
 evaluated as of high               from 86-91%.                      and D.I. Yogyakarta in 2013 indicated
 quality.                                                             91% of projects were high quality. 26
                                                                 •    Technical evaluation as part of the
                                                                      EIRR analysis more than a year later in
                                                                      January 2015 indicated that 86% of

26   Penilaian Kualitas Prasarana di Provinsi Jawa Tengah dan D.I. Yogjakarta, National Management Consultant, 2013.
             IRI                     Achievement                             Comments
                                                                projects were considered good or very
                                                                good quality. 27
 4. O&M arrangements            Target exceeded.            • Technical evaluation in December
 are in place and               Three measurements              2014 included aspects of O&M in the
 functioning for                showed consistent               analysis of project quality and in the
 minimum 50% of                 results, in the 86-87%          evaluation of management quality.
 infrastructure works.          range.                          86% of projects had good or very good
                                                                technical quality, while 86% of
                                                                management quality was good or very
                                                                good.
                                                            • 2013 NMC analysis (noted above)
                                                                reported all infrastructure projects were
                                                                operational, and that 87% were well-
                                                                maintained.
 5. Minimum 70% of              Target exceeded.            In addition, one Disaster Rehabilitation
 agreed additional              100% of additional          Specialist was recruited and hired by NMC
 consultants are recruited      consultants hired and       to support local teams.
 and trained; 90% of            trained; 100% of
 disaster-affected sub-         affected sub-districts
 districts get additional       had additional
 facilitators and training      facilitators.
 for disaster assessment.

 6. Audits carried out in       Target exceeded.            External audits for the additional four sub-
 25% of disaster affected       External audits in          districts planned for 2015.
 sub-districts.                 7/18 sub-districts
                                (39%), and internal
                                NMC audits in an
                                additional 4 (+22%).




27 Laporan Akhir Studi Kecil Dampak PNPM Mandiri Perdesaan Pola Khusus Pasca Bencana Wilaya Jawa Tengah, draft

Januray 2015.
Annex 3. Economic, Financial and Technical Analysis

Introduction. In 2014, PSF commissioned a study28 to analyze the economic benefits of
small-scale infrastructure financed by the DMS project, and to survey beneficiaries on their
level of satisfaction with the infrastructure sub-projects. This annex summarizes the final
report of the consultant, which contains an analysis of a sample of 29 small-scale
infrastructure projects distributed over nine sub-districts from three of the five districts
included in the project. Mentawai was not included in the survey because most of the sub-
projects were still in the final stages of implementation at the time of the survey; Sleman
district in Yogyakarta was not included because activities took place in only one sub-
district. The three sample districts cover 64% of the project’s total block grants, 85% of
all sub-projects, and 88% of all infrastructure sub-projects. The analysis mirrors the
previous surveys of economic benefits for PNPM Rural, and covers water supply, roads
and bridges, and irrigation, which constitute 62% of the infrastructure subprojects
undertaken in the DMS project. The report presented the results of three types of analysis:
(i) economic internal rate of return (EIRR); (ii) beneficiary satisfaction; and (iii) technical
and management quality. The results of the beneficiary survey are presented in Annex 5.
The study followed the methodology that was developed for similar studies conducted in
2005 29 and 2012. 30

Economic internal rate of return. The World Bank’s Handbook on Economic Analysis
of Investment Operations requires the real economic rate of return (EIRR) of Bank-
financed sub-projects to be equal or higher than the opportunity cost of capital of the
country (which the Bank estimates at 12% per annum for developing country members,
including Indonesia). After adjusting for outliers showing returns above 100% 31 , the
average unweighted EIRR of the 29 projects analyzed by the consultant was approximately
60%, above the minimum required rate, and also above the target for the project (30%).
The average unweighted EIRRs were highest for roads and bridges (63%), followed by
irrigation (58%) and clean water systems (56%). The list of EIRRs by sub-projects and by
district can be seen in Table A3.1

The average EIRR of sub-projects financed by PNPM Rural III—DMS is likely to be lower
than the EIRRs presented in the study for the following reasons:

    •    The study did not take into account sub-projects that were no longer functional.
         These included two clean water projects in the sample selection, and if they are
         included in the calculations as representative, the average clean water EIRR drops
         to 40.38%, and the overall project average falls to 52.00%.

28 Laporan Akhir Studi Kecil Dampak PNPM Mandiri Perdesaan Pola Khusus Pasca Bencana Wilayah Jawa Tengah ,

January 2015.
29 Economic Impact Analysis of Kecamatan Development Program Infrastructure Projects, Anthony Torrens, January

2005.
30 Laporan Akhir Study Skala Kecil Analisis Manfaat Economi Projek Infrastructure PNPM Mandiri Perdesaan, PNPM

Support Facility, July 2012.
31 The consultant identified one outlier for clean water systems which documented an EIRR of 340.5%, and one irrigation

system with a calculated EIRR of 262.3%. While the calculations were judged to be correct based on the information
available, a most conservative estimate strategy was used which assigned the sub-project an EIRR equal to the average
EIRR for the other similar projects in that district.
   •   The study assumes that benefits generated by a subproject remains constant over
       time until the end of its service live, even though benefits will in practice gradually
       decline because of inadequate maintenance. Assuming that benefits decrease by
       5% per year, the EIRR drops from 52.00% to 40.30%.

       After these adjustments, it is likely that the average EIRR of most project-financed
       sub-projects will remain comfortably above both the 12% economic opportunity
       cost of capital and the project target of 30%.

Table A3.1: Types and Locations of Sub-projects, and their Average EIRRs

                                                 Number     EIRR
                        Clean Water Systems
                                   Klaten            2      32.80%
                                   Boyolali          3      61.40%
                                   Magelang          3      24.40%
                                   Subtotal          8      40.38%
                        Roads & Bridges
                                   Klaten            4      64.70%
                                   Boyolali          2      48.20%
                                   Magelang          6      68.50%
                                   Subtotal         12      63.85%
                        Irrigation
                                   Klaten            3      71.90%
                                   Boyolali          1      78.20%
                                   Magelang          5      25.00%
                                   Subtotal          9      46.54%
                        Total                       29      52.00%


Analysis of Technical and Management Quality. Two additional analyses were
completed of the 29 sub-projects to determine the (i) the technical quality of infrastructure
works, and (ii) an evaluation of the sub-projects’ management quality. The quality
categories for both analyses included very good, good, average and poor/bad, with only
small differences noted between very good and good. The results are presented in Table
A3.2, and indicate that 86% of the infrastructure projects were considered technically good
or very good.
Table A3.2: Technical Quality of Small-scale Infrastructure Works

                                                  very
                                    number        good          good          average      poor/bad
       Clean Water Systems                   8             2              3           1            2
       Roads & Bridges                      12             2              9           1           0
       Irrigation                            9             5              4           0            0
       Total                                29             9             16           2            2
       Percentage                        100%            31%           55%           7%          7%

Overall, 86% of all infrastructure sub-projects in the sample were evaluated as good or
very good quality. This is consistent with a similar assessment by the NMC in 201332
which estimated 91% of projects were good or very good quality. Both of these exceed
the minimum 50% target in the intermediate outcomes.

A detailed assessment of management quality was also conducted, based on 28 aspects of
implementation covering 5 phases: (i) sub-project preparation, (ii) implementation of
works, (iii) evaluation of the physical works, (iv) maintenance, and (v) post project
evaluation. The results of the analysis in Table A3.3 indicate that 86% of the sub-projects
were managed either well or very well by the community implementation team, and only
one sub-project from the sample was considered poorly managed.

Table A3.3: Implementation Management Quality for Small-scale Infrastructure
Works

                                                    very
                                       number       good       good       average       poor/bad
          Clean Water Systems                8            4          1          2              1
          Roads & Bridges                   12            5          6          1              0
          Irrigation                         9            4          5          0              0
          Total                             29           13         12          3              1
          Percentage                     100%        44.8%      41.4%      10.3%            3.4%




32 Hasil Penilaian Kualitas Prasarana di Provinsi Jawa Tengah dan D.I. Yougyakarta, April-May 2013, results as

reported in the PCR. No information is available on the methodology used for that assessment.
Annex 4. Loan Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                  Responsibility/
Names                     Title                           Unit    Specialty
Lending
                                                                  Task Team Leader (01/17/11-
Kevin A. Tomlinson        Senior Operations Officer       GSURR   08/18/11)
                          Senior Social Development
John Victor Bottini       Specialist                      GSURR   Operations
                          Senior Social Development
Sentot Surya Satria       Specialist                      GSURR   Operations
Bisma Husen               Procurement Specialist          GGODR   Procurement
Zulfi Novriandi           Procurement Analyst             GSURR   Procurement
Indira Dharmapatni        Senior Operations Officer       GSURR   Environmental Safeguards
Virza Sasmitawidjaja      Consultant, Safeguards          GSURR   Environmental Safeguards
Yogana Prasta             Operation Adviser               EACIF   FM and Disbursement
                          Senior. Financial Management
Unggul Suprayitno         Specialist                      GGODR   Financial Management
Melinda Good              Senior Counsel                  LEGES   Legal
Alexander B. Setiadji     Social Development Specialist   GSURR   Governance
Supervision /ICR
                          Lead Social Development
Jan Weetjens              Specialist                      GSURR   PSF Manager
                          Senior Social Development               Task Team Leader (08/19/11-
Sentot Surya Satria       Specialist                      GSURR   04/27/14)
                                                                  Task Team Leader (since
Sonya Woo                 Senior Operations Officer       GSURR   04/28/14-11/30/14)
                          Lead Social Development
Susanne Holste            Specialist                      GSURR   Operations
Yogana Prasta             Operation Adviser               EACIF   Operations
                          Senior Financial Management
Unggul Suprayitno         Specialist                      GGODR   Financial Management
Mariangeles Sabella       Senior Counsel                  LEGES   Legal
Ahsan Ali                 Lead Procurement Specialist     GGODR   Procurement

Yash Gupta                Senior procurement Specialist   GGODR   Procurement
Achmad Zacky Wasaraka     Procurement Analyst             GGODR   Procurement
Zulfi Novriandi           Procurement Analyst             GSURR   Procurement
Franciscus Prahastanto    Operations Analyst              GSURR   Operations
Griya Rufianne            Operations Analyst              GSURR   Operations
Robert Anders Anderson    Operations Officer              GSURR   Operations
Dennie Mamonto            Consultant, Safeguards          GSURR   Environmental Safeguards
Flávio Theodoro Chaves    Consultant, Safeguards          GENDR   Environmental Safeguards
Sulistiowati Nainggolan   Consultant, Safeguards          GEEDR   Social Safeguards
Ardiani Chandra Dewi      Operations Analyst              GSURR   Operations
Hanggar Irawan            Operations Analyst              GSURR   FM & Disbursement
Festina Lavida            Consultant, Fiduciary           GSURR   Financial Management
Nia Yuniarti              Program Assistant               GSURR   Operations
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       US$ Thousands
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Preparation
 FY11                                     16.97                    52.97
                          Total:          16.97                    52.97
Supervision/ICR
 FY12                                     25.59                    41.33
 FY13                                     37.25                    46.75
 FY14                                     22.08                    45.38
 FY15                                     11.91                    27.96
                          Total:          96.83                   161.43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey

A beneficiary survey was conducted in December 2014 33 of 416 respondents (209 F, 207
M) residing nearby the infrastructure sub-projects in the three districts revealed that
71.63% of all respondents were either very satisfied (13.94%) or satisfied (57.69%) with
the infrastructure projects constructed in their areas, below the 80% target. Women were
slightly more positive toward the projects than men: 74.16% were either very satisfied or
satisfied. Only 15.3% of respondents were not satisfied with the completed infrastructure
in their areas. The respondents’ levels of satisfaction is shown in Table A5.1, while the
variation in satisfaction by type of project and by gender is shown in Table A5.2.

Table A5.1: Levels of Satisfaction with Construction Quality/Usefulness of
Infrastructure Sub-projects
                                                  Total Respondents                        Female Respondents
 Level of Satisfaction                       Number             Percentage            Number              Percentage
 Very Satisfied                                        58              13.94%                   23                 11.00%
 Satisfied                                           240               57.69%                 132                  63.16%
 Neither Satisfied nor Dissatisfied                    54              12.98%                   28                 13.40%
 Dissatisfied                                          61              14.66%                   25                 11.96%
 Very Dissatisfied                                      3                0.72%                   1                  0.48%
 Total                                               416                 100%                 209                    100%
 Total Satisfied and Very
 Satisfied                                           298               71.63%                 155                 74.16%

Table A5.2: Satisfied Respondents by Gender and Type of Infrastructure

              Type of Infrastructure:          Men and Women                  Women
              Clean Water Systems              50.9%                          60.7%
              Roads & Bridges                  90.0%                          94.9%
              Irrigation                       66.9%                          61.6%
              Total                            71.6%                          74.2%

Roads were the most popular investment with a 90% general satisfaction level, rising to
95% for women. Roads were also the most common investment in disaster-affected
areas, 34 making up 73% of the three types of projects selected for the sample, with
irrigation projects making up 23% and clean water the remaining 4%. If the product-
specific satisfaction level is applied to the proportions of infrastructure projects actually
built (communities built 333 roads & bridges compared to just 19 clean water systems),
the overall level of satisfaction rises to 83% overall (86% for women), meeting the project
target.




33 Laporan Akhir Studi Kecil Dampak PNPM Mandiri Perdesaan Pola Khusus Pasca Bencana Wilayah Jawa Tengah ,
January 2015.
34 These types of projects were 69.4% of total infrastructure sub-projects: clean water systems (2.9%), roads and bridges

(51%), and irrigation (15.1%).
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

On April 30, 2015 PSF organized a workshop in Jakarta to collect comments on the initial
findings of the project evaluation presented in this ICR, and to discuss lessons learned.
Owing to the PNPM transition from MOHA to the Ministry of Villages (MoV) and the
current processes to develop more comprehensive village level planning and investment
mechanisms under the Village Law, stakeholders were invited from MOHA, MoV, and the
National Board for Disaster Management (BNPB). Besides a review of implementation, a
main objective was for all stakeholders to consider the lessons learned from the DMS
project and how these might be usefully integrated into local government functions and
processes now being developed. In addition to the World Bank team, representatives from
MOHA/PMD, MoV and BNPB participated in the workshop. Discussions and conclusions
can be summarized as follows:

•   There are important differences between emergency and reconstruction phases of
    disasters. The World Bank is not generally well-suited to deal with immediate
    emergency responses because of the time frames required for design, appraisal and
    approvals, and the flexibility often required for effective emergency responses typically
    can’t be incorporated into Bank projects. On the other hand, the DMS project was both
    effective and was thought by stakeholders to be efficient in its support to communities
    for assessing the impacts, prioritizing and rebuilding in the reconstruction phase.
    Economic recovery should also be included in the medium-term recovery process, and
    DMS allowed these options. Providing additional grant funding to an existing project
    was a useful and relatively fast mechanism, but managers should not underestimate the
    extent of the additional responsibilities placed on them.

•   It was agreed that aid in response to disasters requires treatment and/or implementation
    guidelines tailored to the local environment and context. The conditions in Java and
    Mentawai were very, very different in all respects (geography, remoteness,
    infrastructure, tradition & culture, etc.) and in hind sight, it probably would have been
    better to divide the grant into two separate projects. This would allow some variation
    in implementation guidelines, and more importantly, in the implementation timeline.
    However, participants agreed that the GoI’s annual budget cycle was still a binding
    constraint for activities in remote areas because they took longer to organize, longer to
    procure materials, and overall were more expensive and required different allowances.

•   All stakeholders acknowledged that facilitation in remote areas is a problem and can
    have a major impact on all project implementation – not just disaster recovery. MOHA
    agreed that additional experienced facilitators were needed in post-disaster
    environments. BNPB had similar experience with the facilitators they trained and
    dispatched to Mentawai – turnover was very high, and few opted to stay at their posts.
    Stakeholders agreed that special steps should be taken to hire and train local facilitators
    in remote areas, as they are more likely to understand the needs of the local
    communities, their culture, and will not have the same difficulty living in the
    community. BNPB budgeted Rp. 325 trillion (US$25 million) to reconstruction in
    Mentawai, but between the difficulty in retaining facilitators and delays from resolving
    land use issues, they ended up building 1,000 homes and returning Rp 300 trillion
    (92%) back to the central account.

•   The participants put together a lengthy agenda of key issues for integrating disaster risk
    management into the village planning process as part of the Village Law:
    - What mechanisms can best be used to integrate disaster risk management into the
       annual village plan?
    - Will training modules have to be adapted or developed?
    - How will processes across MOHA, MoV and BNPB be coordinated and
       reconciled? Under BNPB guidelines, local government is required to make
       contingency plans for disaster preparedness, yet these are not yet included in MoV
       planning processes. The BNPB also has a community resilience evaluation process
       with 20 indicators, including community participation in the annual village
       planning meeting.
    - How will villages plan and manage cross-village investments for disaster
       management? For example, building and maintaining shelters along the evacuation
       route – how will ownership and O&M be managed under the new law? How will
       villages invest in equipment and maintain cross-village communications networks?
    - All stakeholders agreed that the Ministry of Public Works needs to be involved in
       this discussion as well, since they hold significant responsibilities in urban disasters
       (especially flooding) and infrastructure rebuilding.
Annex 7. Borrower's Completion Report

In December 2014, the Borrower submitted a project completion report to the Bank. A
summary of this report has been prepared and presented here.

Final Report for PNPM Post-Disaster Recovery
Prepared by the National Management Consultant
on behalf of MOHA/PMD

Background, objectives, design, and implementation
In late 2010, Indonesia suffered a series of natural disasters, including an earthquake (7.7
on the Richter Scale) and tsunami in the Mentawai Islands off the coast of West Sumatra,
and the eruption of Mt. Merapi in Central Java. Between these two events, 451 people lost
their lives and an additional 252 went missing, and the communities in 18 sub-districts
suffered from physical damages and displacement.

The objective of the project is to build on the underlying objectives of the PNPM Rural
program – improve rural welfare by providing opportunities and employment for poor
households, and use an empowerment approach to strengthen participatory development –
in disaster-affected locations. The Government of Indonesia (GoI) responded with
assistance under a two-stage recovery process for affected areas: (i) an initial preparatory
phase focusing on employment in general public works and clean-up programs organized
by communities to facilitate the post-emergency return to home villages, followed by (ii)
a reconstruction phase when communities assess damages and needs, prioritize projects,
and organize recovery activities through supplemental PNPM block grants. A modified,
post-disaster operations manual (PTO) developed as part of previous PNPM disaster
projects was used in these areas.

Project implementation follows familiar PNPM Rural procedures involving the community
members, facilitators, and local government. The first phase took place during 2011 in the
target districts of Central Java and Yogyakarta, and consisted of cash-for-work programs
for groups of roughly 10-20 persons at the neighborhood level. Villages received Rp. 100-
500 million depending on the degree of damage suffered. The second phase reconstruction
projects were funded in 2012 under the same PTO and covered three provinces: Central
Java, Yogyakarta and West Sumatra. The PTO instructed communities to prioritize the
use of block grants for reconstruction and rehabilitation, disaster risk reduction, supporting
infrastructure for relocation, and economic and social recovery.

Disbursements
The project disbursed IDR 30 billion for cash-for-work activities during 2011, followed by
IDR 91 billion in reconstruction block grants in 2012 (totaling approximately US$13.4
million). The GoI requested that all funds remaining in the trust fund in 2014 be allocated
to subsequent community recovery activities in twelve sub-districts in North Sumatra and
East Java in the wake of volcanic eruptions there.
Outcomes against objectives
Villages organized 2,709 cash-for-work activities which generated 715,000 work days
during 2011. The central core of the project – the recovery projects funded in 2012 –
consisted of a total of 781 projects (of which 723 were physical infrastructure) with
491,699 counted beneficiaries (50.4% women; 44.7% from poor households). The
remainder of funds used to reimburse community activities in East Java and North Sumatra
in 2014 supported an additional 155 projects with 99,496 beneficiaries (49.6% women;
38.7% from poor households). The detailed outcomes are those presented in section 3.2 in
the main body of the report.

Lessons Learned

The role of Government
• Bureaucratic delays in revising government budget allocations (revised DIPA) for the
   DMS project were a problem. These resulted in delays to the DMS-funded projects,
   and because these are often linked to regular PNPM or other projects, the delays
   sometimes had an impact beyond DMS activities. The usefulness of the community
   planning process was reduced, and mentoring support was less effective.
• Weak support from local government, for example poor coordination by the district
   and sub-district coordination teams (Satker) was compounded by the lack of budget
   allocations that would have enabled local government workers to oversee rehabilitation
   projects.

Working in a post-disaster environment
• Materials delivery was disrupted due to damaged transportation infrastructure.
• Potential problems need to be anticipated. For example, much material resulting from
  the eruption remains on the slopes above the villages, and there is the thread of cold
  ash floods when the rainy season begins. For communities that live alongside
  riverbeds, this could destroy rebuilt infrastructure, especially weirs and irrigation
  canals.

Working in remote areas
• The quantity and quality of facilitation services was not adequate in Mentawai,
  resulting from high turnover, frequent vacancies and extreme geographic conditions
  that require long travel times between villages and high transport costs.
• Extreme geographic conditions in the villages, and lack of working infrastructure. For
  example, broken access roads, inadequate transportation, fuel shortages, and
  inadequate-or-no communications infrastructure.
• Changeable weather conditions resulted in irregular delivery of construction materials
  when boats ceased to operate between the provincial capital (Padang) and the islands.
• Limited supply and high demand for all processed goods (including construction
  materials).
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers

No comments received.
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

•   Project Appraisal Document. World Bank. June 2011.
•   Aide Memoires (various). World Bank. 2011-2014.
•   Implementation Status Reports (various). World Bank. 2011-2014.
•   Laporan Akhir PNPM Pasca Bencana, MOHA PMD and the National Management
    Consultant, December 2014
•   Laporan Akhir Studi Kecil Dampak PNPM Mandiri Perdesaan Pola Khusus Pasca
    Bencana Wilayah Jawa Tengah, January 2015
•   Hasil Penilaian Kualitas Prasarana di Provinsi Jawa Tengah dan D.I. Yougyakarta,
    April-May 2013
•   Economic Impact Analysis of Kecamatan Development Program Infrastructure
    Projects, Anthony Torrens, January 2005.
•   Laporan Akhir Study Skala Kecil Analisis Manfaat Economi Projek Infrastructure
    PNPM Mandiri Perdesaan, PNPM Support Facility, July 2012.
•   Economic Impact Analysis of Kecamatan Development Program Infrastructure
    Projects. Anthony Torrens. January 2005.
•   Monthly Report December 2014, National Management Consultant
•   Country Partnership Strategy for Indonesia FY2009-2012. World Bank. August 2008.
•   Country Partnership Strategy for Indonesia 2013-2015. World Bank. December 2012.
•   PNPM-Rural Impact Evaluation. John Voss. PSF. April 2012.
•   Technical Evaluation of Infrastructure – PNPM-Rural & Other Funding Sources.
    PNPM Support Facility. July 2012.
Annex 10. Photographs
