E-382
WEST JAVA JAKARTA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DRAFT
PROGRAMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL REVEIW


﻿W\est JaNa JakArta EnNironmental NIana,ement Project (WJJE11P) Prograninuc En%ironnental ReN iew  Page
Table of Contents
Table of Contents ......................................................                        i
Taes..............................................................
Figures.....    ........................................................
1.0     Executive Sunnary                ...................................         ............... iv
2.0     Project Setting .....   ..........................................iv
2.1   Community Participation Aspects ....................               .....................v
3.0     Adaptable Program Loan and Environmental Management...........v
4.0     Program Components.............................................V
5.0     Conclusions and Reconunendations.................................Vi-
5.1   Proposed Mitigation or Environmental Safeguard.............             ..............vii
5.2   Component 3 - Small/Medium Scale Industries...............              ..............vii
5.2.1    Proposed Institutional Arrangements.............           ....................vii
5.3   Component 4 - Community Environmental Facility (CEF)             ....................viii
5.3.1    Proposed Institutional Arrangements.........................        ............. iii
5.4   Component 6 - Environmental Management..........                 ......................ix
5.4.1    Proposed Environmental Mitigation...................................ix
1.0     BACKGROUND................................................                             I
1.1   Introduction.........................................................
2.0     Project Settin...................................................                      I
2.1   Physical Environment.................................................. 2
2.2   Demography.......................................................... 3
2.3    Socioeconomic Profile...............................                      ................... 3
2.4    Structural Change..................................................... 4
2.5   District and Municipal Profile............................................4
2.6   Environmental Change...................................                    ...........4
3.0      Pojecnit Participation Aspects              .............................    .......5
4.10     Adaptable Program Loan and Environental anagenent................. 6
4.1    Project Initiation Phase (APL 1)       ..............................       ............8
4.2   Acceleration Phase (APL 2).......................................               .......9
4.3   Institutionalization Phase (APL 3)...................................            .....10
5.0     Pro rain Components             ..................................................11
2.1   Component    -Project Support          .................................................. 1
5.2   Component 2-Solid Waste ..  ............................              ...............12
5.3   Component 3-Small/ediu          Scale Industry Support   ............................ 14
5.4   Component 4 - Environmental Education and Awareness..........                  ........... 15
est Ja Jakarra Enirownemai Management Project (IJEMP)


﻿West Ja%a Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WNJJE11P) Progranimmic Environmental Re%iew  Page ii
5.5   Component 5 - Community Environment Facility.............       ...............15
5.6   Component 6 - Environmental Management...................................1I
6.0    Environmental Screening     .........................................19
6.1   Operational Policy 4.01................................................19
6.2   GOI AMDAL Procedures..............................................20
6.3   GOI Screening Criteria.................................................20
7.0    Potetial Environmental Impacts.....................................21
7.1   Component 2 - Solid Waste Subcomponents Involving the Construction, Operation and
Rehabilitation of Final Disposal Sites (TPA's) ........................... 22
7.2   Component 3 - Small and Medium Scale Industry Subcomponent Which Requires
Financial Intermediary Lending       ...............................  ..........27
7.3   Component 5 - Community Environmental Facility .......................... 28
7.4   Component 6 - Environmental Management..........................30
7.5   Training                 ...........................................................31
8.0     Conclusions & Recommendations         ....................................33
8.1   Component 2 - Solid Waste............................................. 34
8.1.1   Proposed Mitigation or Environmental Safeguard  ......................... 34
8.2   Component 3 -Small/Medium Scale Industries                  .......................34
8.2.1   Proposed Institutional Arrangements..................................35
8.3   Component 4 - Community Environmental Facility (CEF) ............       ......... 35
8.3.1   Proposed Institutional Arrangements.................................35
8.3.2   CEF Environment Checklist                        ........................................ 36
8.4   Component 6 - Environmental Management............................36
8.4.1   Proposed Environmental Mitigation                    ................................... 37
Tables
Table  2-1: List of Local Governm ents  in  Project Area............................................................iv
Table 2-1: List of Local Governments in Project Area................................
Table 2-2: Comparison of Population and Growth Rates - 1990-96 Project Area ....................1
Table  2-3: Population  of the  Specific  Project Area  1994............................................. . ..2
Table  2-4: Rainfall (mm) in  Jakarta  and  Bandung, 1998................................................... 3
Table 2-5: River Discharge Volumes DKI and West Java Province               ...................3
Table 3-1: Summary of Local Environmental Issues - Phase I Community Participation........5
Table 7-1: Indicative List of Defined CEF Subprojects       ..........................2S
Table 7-2: List of Defined Environmental Management Projects   ...............  .....31
T able  7-3:  Proposed  T raining  Program .................................................................................33
Figures
Fi ure  5-1: CEF  Im plem entation  O rganization................................................................ 17
; eSt 1wa Jakarta Emironevnal .'Lanagenew Proect ( EtfAIP)


﻿Wetst Ja%a Jakarta EnNironnienal Management Project (NNJJEN1P) Programnic Environmental ReNiew   Page 11
Programmatic Environmental Review
West Java Jakarta Environmental Management Program                (WJJEMP)
1.0 Executive Summary
I. Chemonics International Inc. (Consultant) is the program preparation consultant for the
West Java Jakarta Environmental Management Program    (hereafter referred to as WJJEMIP).
The objective of the Program is:
"... to improve environmental quality, human health and economic productivity in the
urban areas of West Java and Jakarta through pollution reduction and a program of
environmental  improvements. Secondaty     objectives  are  to  promote  poverty
alleviation, employment generation and industrial efficiency.
2. The objectives of the Programmatic Environmental Review (PER) are to:
-      Review project documentation;
-      Identify the broad potential environmental impacts of relevant project
components of the Program;
-      Assess and screen the proposed projects using the requirements of the
Government of Indonesia (GOD AMDAL procedures and the World Bank
Operational Policy 4.01 (OP 4.01) in the context of an Adaptable Program
Loan (APL);
-      Propose appropriate rmitigations and /or environmental safeguards; and,
-      Propose institutional and /or training requirements to ensure that there is
adequate capacity to influence and monitor the environmental outcomes of the
Program.
2.0    Project Setting
3.  The geographic area covered is the greater Jakarta Metropolitan area including DKI
Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang, and Bekasi, plus otler urban portions of West Java including
Bandung, Cirebon and Cilegon (the latter described in the documentation as Kabupaten
Serang). The total number of local governments involved in the Program  is fourteen. These
local government areas are listed in Tabe 2-1.
Table 2-1: List of Local Governments in Project Area
-         Serang Kabupaten (Cilegon Kotamadya)  -         Cirebon Kotarnadva
-         Cirebon Kabupaten                     -         Bandung Kotamadya
-         Bandung Kabupaten                     -         Bogor Kotamadya
Bogor Kabupaten                       -         Tangerang Kotamadva
-         Tangerang Kabupaten                   -         Bekasi Kotamadva
-         Bekasi Kabupaten                      -         Depok Kotamadya
-         DKI Jakarta                           -         Province of West Java
West Java Jakarta Emronmetal Mlanagenent Project (W1E.IP)


﻿West Java Jakartj Environmental Management Project (NNJJEIP) Progranimmic Environmental Revie  Page
2.1    COMllUNITPARTICIPATION ASPECTS
4. Consistent with recent Government policies, the Program  development methodology was
based on a consultative "bottom  up" process. To obtain input, the Program   conducted
interviews with a wide range of stakeholders drawn from Government at all levels, NGOs,
the private sector, community groups, development institutions and universiies. It is
estimated that over 500 information-gathering interviews were held. In addition to identifying
priority environmental issues and relevant interventions, four special workshops were held,
one each in Jabotabek, Bandung, Serang and Cirebon. The community information and
participation program was the basis for the development of a list of projects that were then
evaluated and prioritized with regard to criteria developed from Program objectives.
3.0 Adaptable Program Loan and Environmental Management
5. The GOI has expressed interest in applying for an Adaptable Program  Loan (APL) in
support of the WJJEMP. APLs are a sequence of projects supported by separate loans, to
support phased implementation of long-term  development programs when there is clear
agreement on objectives, but where the path to achieve them requires leaming from results.
APLs allow a better response for certain development problems and from the GOI's point of
view, stand for (i) continuity for long-term development, particularly for environmental.
management activities; (ii) allow for a demand-driven expansion of the APL as changes in
scope are identified during project implementation; and (iii) allow for more flexible and
timely responses to changing needs. For WJJEMP, this requires tlat an environmental
management framework be developed based on a number of stages prior to project
implementation.
6. The implementation of WJJEMP is proposed as a 9 year program and it is planned to
occur over three phases: (i) Initiation Phase (APL 1/Years 1-3); (ii) Acceleration Phase (APL
2/Years 4-6); and (iii) Institutionalization Phase (APL 3/Years 7-10). The main objective of
APL   1 is to establish the framework for environmental interventions and   specialized
programs in environmental education, smallh,edium scale industries, and community
environment The objective of APL    2 is improvement in environmental quality through-
implementation of directed investments and software interventions. The objective of APL 3 is
to  continue  the  program  of environmental improvements through    new  interventions
developed as WJJEMIP evolves.
4.0    Program Components
The Logical Framework Analysis (LFA) conducted during the third phase of program
planning grouped the proposed subprojects into six major components:
* Project Support through Technical Assistance (TA);
* Solid Waste Management;
* Small/Medium Scale Industry Support;
* Environmental Education and Awareness;
* Communitv Environment Facility (CEF); and,
;Vest Java Jakarta Emirowneial Managentent Project (I I/EMP)


﻿kest JaNa JakArta Enironrental Management Project (WJJEN1P) Programmaic Environmental ReNiew  Page Ni
* Environmental Management.
7.  The LFA    grouping also revealed that of the 130 subprojects, of those remaining after
exclusion of non-qualifying ones, approximately 30 were conmunity and 20 small-scale
industry subprojects. Improvements for both communities and small-scale industries are to be
addressed  through  private  sector  initiatives  using  a  financial  intermediary  on-lending
structure. The remaining 80 long listed subprojects in the areas of project support, solid
waste, environmental education and awareness and environmental management have been
proposed to be implemented by GOI. About 30 of these subprojects could be consolidated,
resulting in a final list of about 50 recommended GOI sponsored subprojects.
5.0    Conclusions and Recommendations
8.  WJJEMIP was reviewed in relation to OP4.01 and the GOI AMDAL procedures. In
addition to the Bank and GOI environmental requirements, the design of WJJEMP is further
strengthened through the selection of the Bank's Adaptable Program Loan (APL) approach.
APL offers the GOI the necessary flexibility required, as a phased approach to borrowing will
allow the govemment to make any necessary adjustments to the Program     that will improve
the  overall environmental performance   of related   activities. During  APL   1, overall
environmental management protection will be the primary focus with policy development
and environmental planning measures developed during the first three years. Infrastructure
development, including the development of sanitary landfills, will be the main thmust under
APL 2, and vill be guided by the early adoption of environmental measures thus contributing
towards sound environmental management.
9.  Four of the six components which were found to contain subprojects that required
screening under the combined World Bank and GOI procedures. Using these combined
requirements it is considered that the program would be a Category B project.
10. For Component 2 - Solid Waste projects that involve the development of sanitary
landfills are considered to be Category B. The impacts of such projects are well understood.
The impacts are generally site-specific and few if any of them are irreversible; and in most
cases mitigation measures can be designed. Also, all of the landfills proposed are being
designed as sanitary landfills (as opposed to controlled), which will require high standards of
leachate  drainage and  gas generation  control. However, exceptions regarding   the  final
decision for carrying out a  full ANDALRKIRPL assessment for the development of a new
proposed landfill at Cirebon may be left to local government (PEMDA), particularly if it is
felt that the area will eventually increase in size (over 7,000mrr  day), or there Will be
significant opposition from local communities.
Environmcntal Management includes subprojects in integrated domestic/industrnal wastewater treatment, air
quality, domestic sanitation coupled with river water protection, inter regional river basin planning and
greening.
Ife st Java Jakara Envrotunenal Managemeru Project (If/,EMP)


﻿West Java Jakarta En ironmental Management Project (WJJEMP) Progranmic Environmental Reiew  Page %iI
5.1    PROPOSED MITIGATION OR INVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARD
11. Environmental Management (RKL) and Monitoring (RPL) Plans are a requirement when
an ANDAL is prepared. In order to ensure that these plans are relevant, financially viable and
provide the appropriate level of information, a minimum set of requirements for the
RKLJRKL should be included in the Terms of Reference (TOR) for all ANDAL's being
prepared for this component.
12. Building on the requirements of UKLUPL, Environmental Management and Monitoring
Plans (RKJRPL's) should include recommended actions by the Contractor to be included in
Contract Specifications. Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) to include: (i) a thorough
but relevant description of the environmental context of proposed or existing site; (ii) a
description/analysis of alternate sites within a spatial planning context and (ii) a cescription
of the 'Community Consultation Program' carried out which includes all stakeholders and
arrangements for on-going consultation.
13. A Site Management Plan should include:
* Proposed area of site with projected volumes;
* Site layout;
* Soil and geology with geotechnical data and relevant analysis;
* Type of lining proposed;
* Underdrainage proposed;
* Vent drainage proposed;
* Overburden removal and storage;
* Cell development plan;
* Leachate treatment design;
* Operation and maintenance profile; and,
* Projected  budgets including   equipment   schedule, staff  with  total
runring cost per annum.
5.2    COMPONENT3 - SMALLJMEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIES
14. These industries are widespread in the project area with highly polluted wastewater
flows which are presently discharged to the local drainage systems. As the proposal is for
intermediary lending the project should be screened as "Category Fl with potential Category
B impacts".
5.2.1 Proposed Institutional Arrangements
15. The potential issue for consideration is to ensure that the institutional arrangements
between BAPEDAL (responsible for subproject review) and BAPEDALDA (DKI and West
Java) (responsible for a monitoring plan and on-going review) have been clarified. This is
due to the perception within BAPEDAL that BAPEDALDA do not currently have resources
es Jcna Jak.aria Einironienal Managermen Project (1IYUEA!P)


﻿Hest JaNa Jakarta Environmental NMIanagement Project (WJJE11P) Progranuniic En%ironnental ReNieN  Page  I: I
to address environmental management issues for small and medium-scale industries. Even
though there are resources being made available in the loan to bolster the capacity of
BAPEDALDA, discussions concerning the proposed institutional arrangements as to roles
and responsibilities and point of hand-over should be agreed between the parties with the
objective of preparing a Memorandum   of Understanding (MOU). It may be necessary for
BAPEDAL to continue with the monitoring function for the first year until the additional
capacity is in place at the BAPEDALDA. It is proposed that all activities over Rp. 1 billion
should involve the local BAPEDALDA when formulating an EMP. The learning experience
will contribute to strengthen the institutions through their involvement in the Project. Thei
participation should also be based on their own tmining initiatives and should also be used as
a gauge for their continued involvement.
16. The extent of responsibility of the Bank for participating in the environmental impact
and management of the subprojects should also be made clear. It is recommended that there
should be training in approved environmental procedures given to Bank staff responsible for
loan appraisal. This will allow the Bank to fully participate in appraisal activities.
5.3    COMPONENT4 - COL11UNITY INVIRONMENTAL FACILITY (CEF)
17. As the Program   will be using an onlending facility, OP4.01 requires that institutional
arrangements for routine screening and if necessary, assessment of the environmental impacts
of the subprojects should be carried out. The component should be classified as Category FT
with potential Category B impacts.
5.3.1 Proposed Institutional Arrangements
18. The most difficult feature of this component will be to identify whom or what
organization is the proponent of the action. Under World Bank and GOI procedures it is the
proponent of the activity who is responsible for environmental assessment. In many cases it
may be a reasonably diffuse community group and in other cases a specific .small industry
entrepreneur. In order to ensure that environmental screening is routinely carried out it is
recommended that a similar but slightly modified procedure be employed similar to that used
in a recent Bank project i.e. the Kecamatan Development Project (KDP).
19. This would involve the preparation of a simple checklist form for each subproject by the
facilitator that would need to be reviewed and checked by the SubBagpro in consultation
with the Kabupaten or Kotamadya BAPEDALDA, BAPPEDA            and'or delegated authority.
The basis for the screening should be a list of questions leading to a conclusion as to whether
there will be any significant environmental impacts. This checklist should be prepared for all
subprojects and be included as part of the appraisal documentation. These checklists should
be sampled by the Bank either routinely by the Jakarta office or during supervision missions
for quality control purposes. The process must be strengthened however in order to meet GOI
and Bank procedures for environmental assessment.
20. It is also considered essential for some training of the Kelurahan level facilitators in the
Agreed Environmental Procedures as well as to give them an understanding of the GOI
AMDAL process. This requirement should be added to the scope of work of the contract for
the private conpany which is to recruit the local level facilitators.
Wesi Java Jairra Erirownewal Management Project (fiJE VIP)


﻿West Java Jakarta EnN ironmental Management Project (WJJDIP) Programmiic Environmental Review  Page ix
5.4    COMPONENT 6 - EWIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
21. This component includes a number of projects that involve the planning, construction
and operation of either domestic or industrial wastewater facilities. It is similar to the solid
waste management component in that there are some proposed facilities where there is
potential for significant environmental impacts unless the subprojects are adequately planned
and implemented.
22. The projects, which were defined, inclule the planning and design of reasonably large
wastewater facilities (i.e., 7,000 m&/day): one for addressing industrial wastewater and one
for domestic wastewater. The domestic wastewater facilities proposed in Kotamadya
Bandung would be a World Bank Category B project, and therefore a full ANDAL is not
required under    GOI procedures and a draft TOR      has been prepared. The industrial
wastewater project at Pulogadung Industrial Estate in Jakarta was also considered to be
Category B and a UKUUPL is to be prepared under GOI procedures as part of the feasibility
review.
23. Full ANDAL can be specifically requested in order to address particular circumstances
such as current land use patterns in the area, population levels, current waste management
practices, plamed developments including future connections to a waste water treatment
plant. In order to ensure a comprehensive environmental assessment, a review of the
ecological boundary and overlapping administrative boundaries should be addressed.
5.4.1 Proposed Enironmental Mitigation
24. The current TOR for the ANDAL for the Kotamadya Bandung wastewater treatment
plant that has been prepared will need to be modified to include a detailed methodology for
ensuring that the community participation aspects of this subproject are emphasized. The
study team should include a social planner/sociologist/institutional specialist who will be
responsible for implementation of the community participation and public awareness
program. The community preparation phase of this work shodd start at least one year prior to
physical construction in order to increase the likelihood of attracting higher connection rates.
25. Other projects defined to date were screened as Category C projects under World Bank
procedures; they do not come under GOI AMIDAL procedures.
West Jca Jakaria En:ronmirieta,l A!an,agement Project (1 JJEMtP)


﻿NNest Ja%a Jakarta Enironmental Management Project (WJJEMP) Programmhic Environmental Review  Page i
1.0 BACKGROUND
1.1    INTRODUCTION
26. Chemonics International Inc. (Consultant) is the program preparation consultant for the
West Java Jakarta Environmental Management Program (hereafter referred to as WJJEMP).
The objective of the Project is:
... to improve environmental quality, human health and economic productivity in the
urban areas of West Java and Jakarta through pollution reduction and a program of
environmental  improvements. Secondary     objectives  are  to  promote  poverty
alleviation, employntnt generation and industrial efficiency."
27. The objectives of the Programmatic Environmental Review are to:
-      Review Project documentation;
-      Identify the broad potential environmental impacts of relevant Project
components of the Program;
-      Assess and screen lie proposed Projects using the requirements of the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) AMDAL procedures and the World Bank
Operational Policy 4.01 (OP 4.01) in the context of an Adaptable Program
Loan (APL);
-      Propose appropriate mitigations and /or environmental safeguards; and,
-      Propose institutional and /or training requirements to ensure that there is
adequate capacity to influence and monitor the environmental outcomes of the
project
2.0    Project Setting
28. The geographic area covered is the greater Jakarta Metropditan area including DKI
Jakarta Bogor, Tangerang, and Bekasi, plus other urban portions of West Java including
Bandung, Cirebon and Cilegon (the latter described in the documentation as Kabupaten
Semng). The total number of local governments involved in the project js fourteen. These
local government areas are listed in Table 21.
Table 2-1: List of Local Governments in Project Area
-         Serang Kabupaten (Cilegon Kotamadya)  -         Cirebon Kotamad\a
-        Cirebon Kabupaten                     -         Bandung Kotamadya
-         Bandung Kabupaten                     -         Bogor Kotarnadya
-         Bogor Kabupaten                       -         Tangerang Kotarnadya
-         Tangerang Kabupaten                   -         Bekasi Kotamadva
-         Bekasi Kabupaten                      -         Depok Kotamadva
-         DKI Jakarta
-         Province of West Java
29. As shown in Figure 1 the program   area is mainly centred on the northwestern coastal
areas of West Java Province, the largest metropolitan area in Indonesia - DKI Jakarta. Table
2-2 shows the relative areas in KMv    and population statistics for the project area. The
population of the urban and rural portions of the project area is shown in Table 2-3. The
target population for the project is the urban component listed in this Table.
Table 2-2: Comparison of Population and Growth Rates - 1990-96 Project Area
est Java Ja.Trra Emnirorneta Management Project OWJJEMP)


﻿West Ja%a JakAra Enironmental Management Project (WJJE-MP) Programniiic En%ironnmental Re iem  Page 2
Province/Reion    Area       % of       Population     Population       Annual
Km,      Indonesia   1990 Million   1996 Million   GrowTh Rate
1990-1996%
DKI Jakarta            590       0.03           8,228           9,341          2.12
West Java           46,300       2.41          35.382          40,117          2.09
Java               132,186        6.89        107,527         116.379          1.32
Source:BPS
Table 2-3: Population of the Specific Project Area 1994
Kabupaten/        Urban Project     Rural         Total
Kotamadva           Area 000's    Area 000's      000's
DKI Jakarta                     9000                      9000
Bogor                           2888          1526        4414
Bandung                         1669          1713        3322
Cirebon                          888          885          1773-
Bekasi                          2137          620         2757
Tangerang                       1258          1142        2400
Cilegon (Serang)                 347          1287         1634
Bogor                            285
Bandung                         2356
Cirebon                          254             7         261
Tangerang                        975          213          1188
Total                          22057         7393        26749
Source: BPS
2.1    PHYSICAL EVIRONMENT
30. Jakarta is the largest city in Indonesia and is a Separate Special Provincial status made up
of five local government areas known as DKI Jakarta. It is surrounded by West Java province
which accounts for 2.4% of the total area of the country. It is only 50 km away from the
largest island of Sumatra on its northwestern tip, across the Sunda Straits. As a result, the
program area enjoys efficient road and rail links, particularly along the Jakarta- Bandung
corridor. West Java is the fastest growing province in the country, and is home to several
large urban-industrial regions, among them, the Bogor-Tangerang-Bekasi area surrounding
DKI Jakarta (these four areas are referred to as Jabotabek), the area in and around the
provincial capital Bandung, and the heavy industry steel and petochemical complex in
Cilegon on the west coast. The other main city in the province is Cirebon to the east
31. The province is surrounded by the Java Sea to the north, the Indian Ocean to the south
and borders Central Java to the east. Maximun-Minimum     Temperature Range varies from
22.8-32 degrees Celsius in Jakarta in Feb to 23-34.1 in October and for Bandung 20.429.4
(Jan) and 19.2-29.5 (Sep) degrees Celsius. There is considerable variation in rainfall across
the province. The northern plains area has a 6ng dry season (can be 5 months) with annual
rainfall between 900-1500 mm. In 1998 for example, Jakarta had a total rainfall of 924 mm
and Bandung 1128 mm (see Table 2-4). This part of the province, which includes DKI
Jakarta, consists largely of flat land areas suitable for irrigated rice cultivation, while the
central and southern parts are largely mountainous regions of volcanic origin, .ith higher
rainfall and rivers of high discharge, making these area very productive  for agriculture (see
Table 2-5). Bandung and Bogor Kotamadya and the surrounding kabupaten (districts) are the
only portions of the project area located in the central mountain area. The rich and densely
WIest Jnla Jakarta Enzro)wmental Alanagenen Project CiJEMP


﻿West JaNa Jakarta Enironmental 11anagernent Project (WJJE 1P) Progranisic Environmental ReNieiw  Page 3
populated northern plains of West Java and the Bandung area can be contrasted to the
relatively underdeveloped western and southern parts of the province.
Table 2-4: Rainfall (mm) in Jakarta and Bandung, 1998
Locaton  Jan    Feb     Mar  Apr    Ma%    June   Jul%   Aug     Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec
Jakarta  492      84     62     71     76     0.S    1.0     0      0      0     61.2   763
Bandung   229    104    106    216'    94      0      16     0     2.7      0     74    2S6
Table 2-5: River Discharge Volumes DKI and West Java Province
Province     Rivers   Catchment    Ave Volume of         Average        Depth of    Volume
Sampled      Km2        Water Flow            Flow        Water mm.     Million
M3/sec         Litres/sec/ Km2               M3/dav
DKI         Cisadane  1146        60                52.3              1655         1896
West Java   Citarum   1674       75                 45.2              1423         2384  -
West Java   Cimanuk   1263       35                 28                882          1116
West Java   Cimanuk   1966       43                 22                691          1360
West Java   Cibuni    1080       54                 51                1606         1735
West Java   Ciuiung   1364       85                 63                1985         2707
Source: BPS
2.2    DEMOGRAPHY
32. West Java, with a population of 39.3 million in 1995, overtook East Java as the most
populous province in the country in 1990. The Sunda people, a linguistically and cultiually
distinct ethnic group, largely populate it though large Javanese communities exist around
Jakarta and in the province's eastern border with Central Java. West Java has a density of 850
persons per square kilometer in 1995 being eight times higher thin the Indonesian average of
102 persons per square kilometer. Due to higher fertility (3.5 versus 3.3 for Indonesia) and in
mgration from   other parts of Java, Sumatra and other parts of country, its population
increased by over 10%  in the 1990-95 period and more rapidly than the country. average. The
relatively faster rate of population growth, at 2.6%  relative to the country average of 2.0%  in
this period, was achieved despite its higher infant mortality (90 versus 71 per thousand
population for Indonesia). Due to its thriving manufacturing industry before the recent
monetary crisis, the province was experiencing rapid in-migration, estimated at 3.49 persons
per thousand population between 1980 and 1990. More recently, relocation of some
manufacturing indutries from  DKI Jakarta and the construction of large residential estates
outside DKI Jakarta has further increased the population density of the satellite towns and
rural areas around Bogor, Bekasi and Tangerang.
2.3    SOCIOECONOMIC PROFILE
33. Following the location of thousands of export-oriented manufacturing industries in the
province since the mid-19SOs, both labour-intensive (garments, shoes, textiles, furniture and
electronic assembly) and high technology oriented industries (motor vehicle, food, chemical,
pharmaceuticals), economic grow-th has been relatively rapid, averaging 70-S%  per annum,
equal to that of the country as whole. In line with its large population, West Java accounted
tcst jAa Jakarta Ewonu ental .Janagemnt Project (IflUEMP)


﻿West Ja%a Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WJJE.11P) Programnmic Environmental Re%iew  Page 4
for 16% of the country's GDP. Though its GDP per capita of S760 in 1994 was some 10%
lower than the national average, its average household expenditure and wage rate were both
10% higher than the country average.
34. While maintaining adequate calorie and protein consumption, which are somewhat
higher than the country average and 10%   higher than elsewhere in Java, in the 1990-1993
period, average household expenditures increased by 13% in real terms, in line with that of
the country as whole. Real wage rates however increased faster by 37%, faster than the
country as whole (25%) and other large Javanese provinces (17%-19%). As a result of these
trends, poverty incidence, which was already lower than the country average, continued to
decline in the early 1990s, and stood at 12.2% in 1993 (versus 13.2% for Indonesia)
compared with 13.9% in 1990. This figure decreased further to 9.84% in Western Indonesia
in 1996 but following the monetary crisis, the latest data suggests that the figure for urban
areas has now fallen back to 21.9% (1998 figure available at national level only).
35. Compared with higher average household incomes and living standards, the people of
West Java and DKI Jakarta are relatively better educated than those in other larger Javanese
provinces. Around a quarter of the labour force was educated at junior school level aid
above, compared with just a fifth for Central and East Java. Similarly, illiteracy rates were
comparatively low at 11% versus 14% for Indonesia.
2.4    STRUCTURAL CHANGE
36. West Java has experienced massive structural changes in recent years. Though it remains
the largest producer of paddy in the country, agriculture accounted for just 17% of the
provincial GDP in 1994, down from 22% five years earlier. Because of the lower productivity
of this sector compared with other sectors, agriculture continued to employ 37% of its labour
force in 1993. Nevertheless the share of agricultural labour force decline in mining, utilities
and construction, accounted for 43% of GDP in 1994, just above the 40%o share for the
country as a whole. Similarly, industrial employment accounted for over 21% of total
employment compared with just 16% for Indonesia.
2.5    DISTRICT AND 'MUNICIPAL PROFILE
37. DKI Jakarta is administered through    5 separate urban districts and 43 subdistricts
(kecamatan) and 265 urban villages (kelurachan). West Java is divided into 20 rural
kabupaten and 5 urban kotamadva, comprising around 1.5 million people on average.
Subdistrict or kecanatan normally contain  50,000-100,000 people each, averaging around 20
subdistricts per rural district (range 10-40), and about 5 in urban districts, except for Bandung
city which comprises 26 kecamatan. The subdistricts, numbering 526 in total, are further
divided into villages of around 5,000 people on average, about 15 per kecamatan on average,
comprising  some 7,125 villages in total. Some 400 of these are however "urban villages" or
kehrahan which together combine to form the five large towns (kotamadva) of Bogor,
Sukabumi, Bandung, Cirebon and, more recently, Tangerang.
2.6    ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE
3S. As the economy has grown, the quality of te urban environment has declined.     The
continued presence of solid, liquid and airbome pollutants causes evermicreasing stress
resulting in very critical problems with solid waste management and air and water quality.
As an indication of the magnitude of the problem, in DKI Jakarta alone, over 27,000 cubic
Hestidm  Jakarta En-ronmental Alxagenen: Project (W'JEALIP)


﻿West Jasa Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WJJE11P) Programmic Environmental ReN iew  Page 5
meters (i.e., about 6,000 tons) of domestic solid waste are produced per day, less than half of
which is collected and adequately disposed of. Surface waters throughout the region are
compromised by ever increasing pollution loads from both domestic and industrial sources;
and air quality suffers from  grow-th of particulate and chemical loads contributed by waste
buming, vehicle and industrial emissions.
39. The concentration of population and industry with increased pollution runs counter to the
public's demand for better urban living conditions. The Government is, therefore, seeking to
improve West Java-Jakarta environmental quality through a range of institutional, legal and
technical  interventions.  The  West  Java-Jakarta  Environmental  Management    Program
(Program) has been designed to assist the Government to address its objectives by buflding a
cleaner, healthier and more attractive urban environment. Under a previous loan program
JUDP 3, the World Bank identified Jabotabek's major urban environmental issues and
developed related action plans. The critical issues were found to be: (i) solid waste
management; (ii) water quality degradation; and (iii) air pollution. The piroposed Program
will build on these plans through environmental interventions implemented at the most
appropriate level of govemment
3.0    Community Participation Aspects
40. Consistent with recent Government policies, the project development methodology was
based on a consultative "bottom up" prccess. To obtain input, the Project conducted
interviews with a wide range of stakeholders drawn from Government at all levels, NGOs,
the  private  sector, community  groups, development institutions  and  universities. It is
estimated that over 500 infornation-gathering interviews were held. In addition to identifying
priority environmental issues and relevant interventions, four special workshops were held,
one each in Jabotabek, Bandung, Serang and Cirebon.
41. As discussed above, a previous World Bank project (JJDP-3) identified Jabotabek's
major urban environmental issues. Building on this foundation, the Project conducted a series
of interviews and workshops to further clarify local environmental concerns (see Table 3-1).
Subprojects were then developed to address project area environmental issues.
Table 3-1: Summary of Local Environmental Issues- Phase I Community Participation
L a c a t  a ri
Serang  Cirebor  Bandung  Bogir  Tar>erang  Bekast  DRI ik  (
olId  asie                 X       x      x      x        x       x       X
ndustral W, stea s ater    N      X       X      X        X       X       x
Daomestic  Wastew'.ater     11i    X       XC
10w  Cornrnun ts iwareness  X      ' AX
.ac  of Moitori  g Contnro  X      X       X
K ocr  Land  Use  Practtces  Xl
Lospttal WasteC r C cerns          '
oasca  Degrada:on u n
Ace  ACr Qs-]ty
or c Hacardcas WLaste                     X
Pon r V,ater Re ource  P  ansnng           N                       'C
Ilean  Up  Rsers' Drain s                              X A
ake 'Canagemett
ea  H ater  Intrus on
;f est Jmu,   Eirvsronme,a gnagement Project (lJJEIP)
Noses  X  usd  wher  nentoned  aan   a subproject suggsted
\1  used  hen  rentioned  as  an  issue  bt  no  subpro c: s-ggesied


﻿West Java Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WJJEMP) Prograninic Environmental Reviem  Page 6
42. Certain issues, such as the need to reduce industrial wastewater pollution and enhance
solid waste management systems and services, were common to all areas. Other issues, like
the need to handle domestic wastewater, low community awareness and lack of monitoring,
cut across all West Java cities but were absent in Jabotabek. Jabotabek citis were most
interested in solid waste services and cleaning up rivers and drains. Issues unique to each area
include:
*      Serang      - Poor Land Use Practices
*      Cirebon     - Hospital Waste Disposal and Coastal Degiradation
*      Bandung     - Toxic/Hazardous Waste Disposal ari or Water Resources Planning
*      Tangerang   - Coastal Degradation
*      Bekasi      - Poor Water Resources Planning, Lake Management and Seawater
Intrusion
43. Issues such as water resources planning, coastal degradation, saltwater intrusion and
drainage/sewerage were recommended by the Central Government to be addressed by other
existing projects.
44. At the Program's four regional (i.e., Jabotabek, Bandung, Serang and Cirebon)
workshops, a determination was made of the most important issues in each area and
subproject sdection criteria were developed. Although each locality was encouraged to
utilize their own unique selection criteria, ultimately the selection criteria used were similar.
Typical selection criteria included: (i) extent of environmental improvement; (ii) beneficial
health impacts; (iii) consistent with  present policies; (iv) ease  of implementation   /
sustainability;  (v)  potential  for  replication;  (vi)  community  empowennent;  and  (vii)
financial/economic feasibility.
45. Utilizing the workshop issues and selection criteria, the Consultant ranked each of the
govemment    subprojects.  Based  on  the  ranking  and   categorization,  the  government
subprojects were packaged into both a development time frame and strategic sector
represented  by  components. The    local  government's suggested  timing  for  subproject
implementation  differs  from  the  Consultant's  recommendations.  Typically,  the  local
governments accelerate the subproject timetables. The Consultant sought guidance from GOI
on this issue and was advised to use the local govemment's timing for use in the project cost
and disbursement tables.  This decision was taken to: (i) allow for the earlier availability of
funds if needed; and (ii) encourage fast action by local governments. However, recent
experience has shown that be process of turning a basic concept into a terms of reference for
implementation is slow as the local governments generally do not have a full understanding
of what they actually want to do. As a result, for most local govermnents, only one first year
subproject has been defined for loan appraisal.
4.0    Adaptable Program Loan and Environmental Management
46. The GOI has expressed interest in applying for an Adaptable Program   Loan (APL) in
support of the WJJENIP. APLs are a sequence of projects supported by separte loans, to
support phased implementation of long-term development programs when there is clear
agreement on objectives, but where the path to achieve them  requires learning from  results.
WIfest Ja Jakrta E,mironmetal anfagenent Project (WVJJEA1P)


﻿West JaNa Jakarta Em ironrmental Managernent Project (WJJE.IP) Programniic Enironmental ReN iew  Page 7
APLs allow a better response for certain development problems and ifDm the GOI's point of
view, stand  for  (i) continuity for long-tern  development, particularly for environmental
management activities; (ii) allow  for a demand-driven expansion of the APL as changes in
scope are identified  during project implementation; aid (iii) allow  for more flexible and
timely responses to changing needs-. For WJJEMP, this requires that an environmental
management framework be developed based on a number of stages prior to project
implementation.
47. The implementation of WJJEMP is proposal as a 9 year program     and it is planned to
occur over three phases: (i) Initiation Phase (APL 1/Years 43); (ii) Acceleration Phase (APL
2L'Years 4-6); and (iii) Institutionalization Phase (APL 3/Years 7-10). The main objective of
APL    1 is to   establish  the  framework  for environmental interventions and  specialized
programs   in  environmental  education,  small/medium  scale  industries  and  community
environment The objective of APL      2 is improvement in    environmental quality through
implementation of directed investments and software interventions. The objective of APL 3 is
to continue the program of environmental improvements through new interventions
developed  as WJJEMP    evolves. Benchmark indicators and    implementation  arrangements
proposed for APL 1,2 and 3 are dlcussed below.
2 'or!d Bank. If 7u arc Adaptable Program Loans?
tJ    Jakarta Emironmental Alanagemeta Project (TWELP)


﻿West Java Jakarta Env ironmental Management Project (WJJE-11P) Programmsic Environmental Review  Page 8
4.1    PROJECT INITIATION PHASE (APL 1)
48. As stated, the overall development objective of WJJEMP is to establish a framework to
improve environmental quality, human health and economic productivity in the urban areas
of West Java and Jakarta through pollution reduction. Secondary objectives are poverty
alleviation, employment generation and industrial efficiency.
49. During the initiation phase under APL 1, the Program, aims to improve overall municipal
services delivery. This is accomplished through:
a) Strengthening community participation,
b) Increasing private sector involvement,
c) Improving local government finances,
d) Bettering local government management and governance capacity; and,
e) Improving coordination between district, city, provincial and central government
agencies.
50. The program utilizes initiatives in (i) project support; (ii) solid waste planning and
management; (iii)  small/medium   scale  industry  pollution  reduction;  (iv)  environmental
education and awareness; (v) a community environment faciliy (CEF) to fund local
improvements; and (vi) environmental management and strategy development The solid
waste component contains: (i) formation and initial operations of the Jabotabek Waste
Management Corporation; (ii) waste reduction and recycling with a special emphasis on
composting; (iii) improvement of solid waste collection and disposal systems; and (iv)
development and implementation of improved medical waste treatment systems. The
small/medium scale industry support component seeks to reduce, prevent, control and treat
pollution from small and medium scale industries. It extends technical information to
industry associations and provides a credit facility to implement recommendations. The
environmental education  program   uses  both  formal  education  and  public  awareness
components to build more environmentally responsible public attitudes. The main purpose of
the CEF is the establishment of a funding mechanism to assist communities in the
improvement of local environmental and sanitation conditions.
51. In order to strengthen the environmental management aspects of WJJEMP, achievable
milestones should be met before moving on to APL 2. It is recommended that measurable
trigger points for proceeding to APL 2 be based on the following conditions:
* Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation established (operations
funded by project);
* Greater    Bandung    Waste   Management     Corporation  established
(operations funded by project);
* Waste Management Master Plans updated for both Jabotabek and
Bandung;
* Environmental awareness, as monitored and ranked annually by an
independent observer, increased by 10% (estimated amount to be
confirmed after Year 1 when baseline levels are known and the
measunng program established);
* Publicly vetted AMDALs (consistent with GOI and World Bank
environmental assessment requirements) and clear operating plans
exist for all operating and proposed TPAs;
West Java Jana Environmenial Aanagentew Projeci (iEAP)


﻿West JaNa Jakarta EnNironmental Management Project (WJJE.11P) Programnic EnvIronrmental ReNiew  Page 9
* Hospital waste   study  completed  and   proposed  facilities  designed,
reviewed,  and   found   consistent  with  GOI   and   World   Bank
requirements;
* Serang envuonnntal management strategy completed;
* Ratio  of grants/counterpart funds/ step  loans (SLAs) defined   and
agreed to by all levels of government;
* Pemda solid waste revenues increased by 20%   from tipping and private
waste hauler license fees (estimated amount to be confirmed after Year
I when baseline levels known and the measuring program established);
* Public Advisory Boards established for all TPAs (funded by project
grants to Pemda's);
* Preparation of annual "State of the Environment" (NKLD) reports by
each Pen-da and the Province of West Java (funded by the project as
grants from Pusat); and,
* At least one wastewater treatment plant in DKI Jakarta and two in
West Java operating within BAPEDAL standards; and
* Publicly vetted and agreed to action plan (with deadlires) for phasing
out lead in fuel.
52. Annex A includes a checklist for the evaluation of fulfillment of conditions in order to
proceed to APL 2.
4.2    ACCELERATION PHASE (APL 2)
53. The objective under APL 2 is to consolidate systems to improve overall municipal
services delivery in the urban areas of West Java and Jakarta through pollution reduction
while continuing efforts at poverty alleViation, employment generation and industrial
efficiency.
54. The Project builds on APL 1 activities and seeks to further strengthen effits to: (i)
overcome problems experienced with solid waste collection and disposal; (ii) provide
effective focus on solid waste services delivery planning and management; (iii) based on
lessons leamed  under APL    1, further develop composting   and recycling programs; (iv)
continue to enhance the role of civil society and public involvement in the urban environment
sector; (v) extend the reach of programs to reduce, prevent, control and treat pollution from
small/medium  scale industries; (vi) expand the number of students, and the public at large,
involved in education and awareness programs; and (vi) increase the number of loans and
grants provided under the CEF.
55. With the implementation of directed investments achieved under APL     2, there are a
number of conditions required in order to proceed to APL 3 which include:
* Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation operating and funded by
Pemda's;
* Environmental awareness, as monitored and ranked annually by an
independent observer, increased by 200 (estimated amount to be
I est Java Jakarra Emironnewrna Management Project ( 4/EIP)


﻿West Java Jakarta Enironmental Management Project (WJJE.IP) Prograrnmaic Environmental Review  Page 10
confirmed after Year I when baseline levels are known and the
measuring program established);
* Operations of hospital waste facilities funded significantly by Pemda's
(or direct cost recovery from hospitals);
* At least one wastewater treatment plant in DKI Jakarta and two in
West Java operating within BAPEDAL standards;
* Pemda solid waste revenues increased by 60%  from tipping and private
waste hauler license fees (estimated amount to be confirmed after Year
I   when    baseline   levels  known    and    measuring   program
established);and,
* Preparation of annual "State of the Environment" (NKLD) reports by
each Pemda and funded by the respective Pemda.
4.3    INSTITUTIONALIZATION PHASE (APL 3)
56. The objective of APL 3 is to institutionalize the environmental initiatives introduced in
the urban areas of West Java and Jakarta under APL I and 2 through new interventions
developed as WJEMP evolves.
57. APL 3 seeks to: (i) expand and ensure sustainability of the environmental management,
solid waste, small/medium scale industry, education/avareness and CEF programs developed
under APL 1 and 2; and (u) continue to strengthen the role of civil society and public
involvement in the urban environment sector. This will be achieved through the following
end-of-program indicators:
* Jabotabek   and   Bandung   Waste   Management    Corporations  well
established and sustainably operated and funded by Pemda's;
* Environmental awareness, as monitored and ranked annually by an
independent observer, increased by 40% (estimated amount to- be
confirmed afler Year I when baseline levels are known and the
measuring program established);
* Operations of all project area hospital waste facilities meet World
Bank and GOI standards and are funded primarily by Pemda's (or
direct cost recovery from hospitals);
* Pemda solid waste revenues increased by 80% from tipping and private
waste hauler license fees (estimated amount to be confirmed after Year
I when baseline levels are known and the measuring program
established);
* Publicly. vetted  AMDALs (consistent with   GOI and    World   Bank
envronmental assessment requirements) and clear operating plans are
required for all new TPAs;
* At least two wastewater treatment plants in DKI Jakarta and four in
West Java operating within Bapedal standards;
* Action plan for phasing out lead in fuel 50% comoete;
it Jcna Jakarta Environmental Managen Project (IflEA[Pi


﻿West Jaa Jakarts En%iron mental Management Project (WNJJE.IP) Programmasic EnNironmental Rev iew   Page II
* Initial environmental education teacher traMing complete;
* Significant environmental and poverty alleviation impact of the CEF;
and,
* Effective assistance to a large number of small and medium sized
industries allowing for a majorreduction in water bome pollution
5.0    Program Components
The Logical Framework Analysis (LFA) conducted       during the third phase of program
planning grouped the subprojects into six major components:
* Project Support through Technical Assistance (TA);
* Solid Waste Management
* Small/Medium Scale Industry Support;
* Environmental Education and Awareness;
* Community Environment Facility (CEF); and,
* Environmental Management.
58. The LFA grouping also revealed that of the 130 subprojects, of those remaining after
exclusion of non-qualifying ones, approximately 30 were community and 20 small-scale
industry subprojects. Improvements for both communities and smallscale industries are will
be addressed through private sector iritiatives using a financial intermediary onlending
structure. The rennining 80 long listed subprojects in the areas of project support, solid
waste, environmental education and awareness and environmental management have been
proposed to be implemented by GOI. About 30 of these subprojects could be consolidated,
resulting n a final list of about 50 recommended GOI sponsored subprojects.
59. Each of these components is now described in more detail.
5.1    COMPONENT I - PROJEcr SUPPORT
60. This component includes a Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) to be headed by
the D.G. Urban Devebpment       as the main unit responsible for project management and
coordination. There are subcomponents which include a public information campaign about
the project and environmental training. There would be a team of domestic and international
consultants providing Technical Assistance to the Project with Specialists recommended in
the following fields:
* Urban Environmental Management
* Governance/Procurement
* Environmental Planninz
* Environmental Economics
* Truining
Environmental Managcment includes subprojects in integrated domestic/industrial wastewater treatment, air
quality, domestic sanitation coupled with river water protection, inter regional river basin planning and
greenine.
West Java Jakana EMrronmenral Management Project (W EMP)


﻿HNest Ja%a JakartU Environniental Managenent Project (WJJE-11P) Programmnic EnNironmental ReNiew  Page 12
* Public Awareness
* Sanitary Engineers (solid waste and wastewater)
* Urban Waste Management
* Business Planning
* Hospital Waste Management
* Solid Waste Transportation
* Solid Waste Reduction
* Operating and Maintenance
* Municipal Finance
* Program Related Support (Education, Cleaner Production, CEF)
* Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (PBME)
61. Through the Program, it is proposed that a formal environmental strategy be developed
for each municipality/district To emphasize the importance of this strategy to the overall
spatial planning effort, it has been propcsed that all Program area municipalities'districts be
required to have the strategy in place by the end of APL 1. Those failing to do so would not
be eligible to receive support from  the Program  in APL 2 and 3 while those with well
developed strategies can use them to guide the support they receive during the remaining two
Progarm APLs.
62. The international and domestic Environmental Planners in the CPMU would assist each
of the   municipalities/districts to  develop  their strategies and  spatial plans. In  additicn,
flexibility exists in design of the training courses. If warranted, a special course in the
environmental aspects of spatial planning can be provided to staff from the municipalities and
districts. Also included under the Program are discussion forums funded through workshops
conducted under the CPMU. Funding is provided for three forums to take 'place in each
municipality/district during the first eighteen months of APL I to promote community
participation during spatial planning.
5.2    COMPONENT 2 - SOLID NVASTE
63. The overall objective of the solid waste component is to increase the efficiency and
environmental acceptability of solid waste collection and disposal, including a reduction in
the volume of waste being disposed of in the Program area. There are four sub-components
comprising: (i) formation of two regional waste management corporations, and construction
of new transfer stations and landfills in Jabotabek and Bandung; (ii) support to subprojects in
waste reduction (i.e., composting), recycling and scavager livelihood improvement (iii)
support to municipalities in West Java to improve their solid waste collection and disposal
services; and (iv) undertaking a study followed by the implementation of a medical waste
management program.
64. The objective of subcomponent (ii) is to reduce the volume of waste being disposed at
landfills. Biomass reduction may be accomplished through:
* Compost Technology Development;
* A Compost Marketing Study; and
l esi Jana Jakarta Emr-onnewal .itaogement Project (IJE.A1P)


﻿WNest JaN a Jakarta Emironmental Management Project (WJJE11P) Programniic Environmental ReNiew  Page 13
* Establishment of Compost Facilities.
65. The objective is to establish a series of public/private compost operations with
professional management and the required internal quality controls to insure that the product
meets the requirement of the market(s) identified through the marketing study. Community
based facilities are also developed and may later be linked to these commercial enterprises.
66. Compost facilities will be a combination of large (i.e., greater than 30 tons per day
(TPD)) operations coupled with small-scale TPD operations. The focus of small-scale
operations will be on neighborhood level operations where land is available and there is
general support at the community level for such operations. Larger facilities will have an
average investment of Rp. 26 billion with a land requirement of approximately 6.5 hectars
with professional management and marketing support.
67. There are advantages and disadvantages to both small and larger scale operations. Larger
operations will be established as professionally run businesses backed by continued
technological and marketing support from the Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation.
The small operations are important within a community development framework and will be
financed on a project by project basis through the CEF component.
68. A subproject in the improvement in the lhelihood of scavengers was also recommended.
The objective is to increase the income of the already wellorganized scavenger community
by increasing their activities beyond the separation of saleable wastes to include the
collection and separation of organic material suitable for the production of high quality
compost. Also a subproject is focused on venniculture for the production of high quality
compost aimed at specialized markets for producing ornamental plants, fish food and
medicine.
Sub-component (iii) - Solid Waste Management in West Java
69. The objective of this subcomponent is to support the improvement of solid waste
collection and disposal services in West Java,  Where relevant the solid. waste activities in
West Java will follow the protocols develkped by the Agency. Examples include procedures
for landfill operations, composting and recycling.
70. The Program will provide support to the development of new TPAs and other solid waste
management activities through subprojects in Cirebon, Cilegon (Kabupata Serang) and
Bandung.
71. This component will also provide TA to Bandung Kotamadya and Kabupaten to
establish a Solid Waste Management Corporation responsible for providing solid waste
collection and disposal services throughout the Greater Bandung metropolitin area.
Sub-component (iv) - Medical Waste Treatment
72. The objective of this sub-component is to undertake a study of the most technologically
and economically suitable approach for dealing with  non-liquid hospital wastes. The study
will be conducted throug-h the Jabotabek Solid Waste Management Corporation, however, the
study will cover the entire Program  areas.  Specific subproject proposals for the construction
of medical waste treatment facilities will be delayed until the study has been completed. In
mcst cases, this will result in implementation during APL 2.
West Java Jakarta Emwona'rnta Alanagement Projeci (WJJEMP)


﻿NNest Java Jakarta Environmentalianagement Project (WJJE1P) Progranmic EnNironmental Re%iew  Page 14
5.3    COMPONENT 3 - S.1,uJMEDUM SCALE INDUSTRY SUPPORT
73. The small/medium scale industry support component seeks to reduce, prevent, control
and treat pollution from Program area small and medium scale industries in an
environmentally  sustainable,  economically  justifiable  and  financially  viable  manner.
Pollution reduction may be through introduction of: (i) better house keeping practices; (ii)
new products from the waste stream; (iii) recycling altematiNes; and/or (iv) treatment options.
Secondary objectives are to promote industry efficiency, poverty alleviation and employment
generation.
74. Selection of target industries was based on high stakeholder interest, pollution loads,
toxicity, strong industry asociations and the potential for profit generation. Target industries
are:
* Tofu Production
* Batik Manufacture
* Electroplating
75. The Ministry of Trade and Industry's Department of Industry (MTIDI) is provided with
technical assistance with a pollution control planning team  working with MTI-DI staff and
local government to develop and introduce policies, programs and strategies to reduce
small/medium scale industry pollution especially at the municipal/district level. Also MTI-DI
will use technical assistance units (TAUs) which will work together with the respective target
industry associations and others (e.g. kelurahan industry peer groups) in the development of
pollution reduction programs. In some cases, applied research and development (R&D)
would be caried out R&D could include, but not be limited to, pilot plant development, test
marketing, consumer and producer surveys or even grants to innovative small industries. In
addition to technology development, the TAU will assist in the preparation of credit
applications for bankable proposals. Credit applications are not limited to those industries
with TAUs. Credit applications, subject to specific criteria, can also be -accepted from any
project area smallrmedium  scale industry for pollution reduction.  The component is designed-
such that it can accommodate new efforts in areas such as recycling and reuse.
76. Interest rates will be set at the Bank Indonesia certificate rate (SBI) which is slightly
below commercial market lending rates. The lesser rate is justifed since all of the pollution
reduction loans contain a significant element of non-market economic benefit. Borrowers will
be required to contribute a minimum of 15 percent of the subproject cost. The loan terms and
grace period will be tailored to generally reflect the borrowers anticipated cash flow.
However, a maximum loan term of seven years and grace period of two years will be applied.
A maximum loan amount of Rp. 2 billion is also set Collateral is required for loans.
77. The credit applications will be forwarded to a domestic, private Channeling Bank. The
Channeling Bank will send the technical section of the credit application to BAPEDAL for
their review  and approval. BAPEDAL      has functioned effectively in this role under the
OECF's PAE and KfW programs. BAPEDAL will also receive the services of monitoring
specialists and a legal expert. The legal expert will make recommendations on improving and
consolidating the legislation and regulations effecting small/medium scale industry pollution
monitoring ard enforcement.
;fes: Java Jakarra Dnironmenial anagemen Project (WJJE,P)


﻿West Java Jakarta EnNironmental Management Project (WVJJE_11P) Progrannic Environmental Reviei%  Page 15
78. BAPEDALDA, provincial level in DKI Jakarta and municipal/district level in West Java,
will be strengthened by the project. They will receive assistance in development of
small/medium scale industry pollution reduction programs and improve their monitoning
capacity through the provision of services and funds for equipment purchase and operations.
79. Once a credit application is approved by BAPEDAL, the Channeling Bank will request
BAPEDALDA     provincial level in DKI Jakarta or municipal/district level in West Java to
design an environmental monutogn program for the proposed subloan. The monitoring
program will be included in the credit application and must be agreed upon by the bank, the
sub-borrower and  BAPEDALDA. Failure to comply       with the monitoring  program  will
constitute a breach of the credit agreement. Incorporation of BAPEDALDA into the credit
process will assist in enhancing their environmental monitoring role.
5.4    COMPONENT 4 - ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AND AWARENESS
80. The Program seeks to in-prove the program area urban environment through a range of
interventions. However, to be fully sustainable these, and other interventions, need to be
supported by the population at large. This will require an improvement in public attitudes
towards the environment The most effective means of attaining such behavioral change is by
educating people about the need for a cleaner environment The Environmental Education
and Awareness component aims to achieve long-tem positive behavioral change by
educating the public about the importance of environmental responsibility through both
formal education and public awareness.
81. The public awareness subcomponent has three portions: (i) environmental newspaper
production  and  dissemination; (ii) competitions; and  (iii) public campaigns. MOEC  will
produce an environmental education newspaper. The newspaper will be published monthly
with content that provides a sound, general overview of environmental issues in Indonesia.
82. Four   different  types  of  environment-related  competitions  are  envisaged.  The
competitions will be held annually and are targeted at students and teachers. Competitions are
to be in drawing for elementary students, writing for junior secondary students, and scientific
essay writing, and possibly science fais, for senior secondary students. There will also be -
scientific writing contests for teachers. To promote practical application of environmental
skills, a competition will be held between schools. The schools found to have the most
"environmentally ffiendly" grounds and buildings and the best environmental understanding
will be the victors. Campains directed at the general public will be conducted through a
variety of mediums including leaflets/stickers, posters, print and electronic media.
5.5    COMPONENT 5 - COMMUNITY EVIRONMENT FACILITY
83. The main purpose of the Community Environment Facility (CEF) is the establishment of
a funding mechanism to help communities, businesses and groups of individuals improve
local environmental and sanitation conditions. Although the CEF is targeted at environmental
and sanitation improvements, which should result in better health for the public, it has a
secondary purpose - to promote local economic development and raise incomes. Further
development of CEF    will occur during APL 1 with implementation in APL 2 and 3.
However, the Consultant has prepared an initial proposal the essence of which is described
below.
84. The scope of the CEF includes:
Fest Java Jakarta Enarmental ALkagement Protect 0J JEAfP


﻿West Java JakartA En% ironniental Management Project (WJJE11P) Programnic Environmental Rev ieN%  Page 16
*  Improvements to    public  health  by  providing   a  means   whereby   a
community or groups of individuals can carry out improvements to
environmental and sanitation conditions at the local level; and,
* Creation    of    entrepreneurial  opportunities  through    environmental
subprojects that result in income generation and better living standards.
85. There are three categories of subprojects that can be considered for inclusion in the CEF
program: (i) general community environmental projects; (ii) support to a specific industry or
commercial activity; and (iii) support to groups of households. The Program recommendt a
method for subproject segregation by category as well as a system for ranking and evaluation
of subprojects.
86. The CEF Will be implemented through three levels of government central,
municipal/district  and   community     (i.e.,  kelurahan).  The    key   agencies   and   their -
responsibilities are shown in Figure 5 1.
Iest Jaa Jakaria En-tronmental Alanagemert Projecr (JJEA1P,)


﻿West Ja%a Jakarta Ernironmental Management Project (NNJJEMP) Prograninic Enironmental Review  Page 17
Figure 5-1: CEF Implementation Organization
DG P  1 MD       Responsibilities:
CEF  Coordinator      Supervise  implemnen:a  on
-  Recru i  and  train  e,tenio n
agenti s
Extension- Prepare and manage
Agents                              information  canpaign
Caoor dinator-                        A1location  of  funds
- Moniioring/auditing
PM  D  P i b  gpro  Responsibilities
 Approval  of sUbproject
In cne piLn
T ech nical                 Subproject  approva
Agenies* Financial management
SLiaisiono  and  coordination
L  K1M  D       Responsibilities:
- Endorse  concept
Responsibilities:   E,ens,on                           - Local management
- [nformation           g                                 NGOs/commun itty  groups
dissemination
- Preeni  sub projerts               CO  MM UN IT Y
Eo  L K MD
87. The CEF program will be managed by the Directorate General of the Development of
Village Inhabitants (PMD) in the Ministry of Home Affairs. There will be a Tull time CEF
Coordinator established within PMD. The implementing agency will be' the PMD at the
municipal/district level. There will be a full time CEF Pimbagpro in that office assigned for
the CEF program. Tie Pimbagpro will be responsible for the final approval of subprojects. It
is this aspect that defines the real "power to the local govemment" and provides the
Pimbagpro with a major responsibility at the local level. It is not intended that approval for
each subproject be confirmed by the regent (i.e., Bupati) or mayor (i.e., Walikotamadya).
88. There will be technical teams established to assist the Pimbagpro and the CEF program
generally. The technical teams will be chosen from     municipal'district agencies wih the
makeup dependant upon     the nature of the subprojects. The technical agencies will be
coordinated through BAPPEDA municipality/district A Handling Bank will be appointed to
administer the  loan  process. Following  approval by   PMD    municipal/district, silproject
proposals eligible for loan financing will be forwarded to the Handling Bank for financial
administration. A financial management unit will be set up to assist the Pimbagpro and the
Handling Bank wxith the financial and economic assessments of theproposed subprojects.
89. The component requires an estimated 40 Extension Agents be appointed on a part time
basis for each municipality/district and be stationed in the municipal/district PMD office. The
role of the extension agent is to provide independent support to a number of the activities,
including:
West Java Jakarta Emironetnc I Managenien Protect (JEFMP;


﻿West Java Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WJJEMP) Programmaic Environmental Reiew  Page Is
* Dissemination of CEF information;
* Assist and   provide  advice  and  guidance  to  communities  during
subproject proposal and approval; and,
* Report to the    CEF   Coordinator regarding  the  arrangements for
beneficiary selection and monitoring of subproject results.
90. The Extension Agents will be responsible for preparing and holding information
meetings with community heads (i.e., Lurah, RT and RW) as well as other officials from
govemment agencies, NGOs and private cizens involved in local community development
The Extension Agent will be the main liaison link between the CEF Coordinator, the
Pimbagpro, municipality/distict and the community regarding the information campaign.
He/she will report to the CEF Coordinator. Submission of subproject proposals will be
through the LKMD/Community based organization. However, it will be the Extension_
Agent's responsibility to  meet with the   LKMD/Local Equivalent after submission     of
subprojects to insure that a "genuine communiy or individual effort has developed the
subprojects, not the influence of the village heads or other interested parties".
91. The Extension Agents are to be recruited and supervised through a separate contract with
either an NGO, university or private company. The contractor would in tum     enter into
subcontracts with local community based organizations or NGO's to supply one or more
Extension Agents. This will assist in strengthening the NGO community and contribute to the
sustainability of the CEF following project completion. The CEF is set up as a sustainable
facility. The initial CEF funding is Rp. 120 billion. The cumulative total of CEF loan requests
received is projected to increase from 10-15 pilot projects during APL I to approximtely 350
in APL 3). An estimated 50 percent of requests will be approved and funded. Selected
subprojects will range in size and possible impacts will need to be assessed.
-5.6   COMPONENT6 - EIRONMENTAL MNAGEMEINT
92. The Environmental Management component is comprised of subprjects which serve as
important models for expansion and address major issues, but were not -considered suitable
for inclusion into other components. As a result, Environmental Management consists of a
series of subprojects, rather than a detailed sector specific component. Subprojects are
included for: (i) integrated domestic/industrial wastewater treatment; (ii) air quality; (iii)
domestic sanitation coupled with river water protection; (iv) inter-regional river basin
planning; and (v) greening. All of the& subprojects are pilot efforts which could be applied
widely throughout Indonesia.
93. Three   subprojects  have  been  identified  under  this  component  for  first  year
implementation. These subprojects are: (i) Wastewater Treatment Facility for Jakarta
Industrial Estate Pulogadung (integrated domestic/industrial wastewater treatment); (ii) and
air quality technical assistance project for Jakarta and Bandung); and (iii) Environmental
Permi-ting  for Cikapundung  River Domestic Sanitation  (domestic sanitation  coupled with
river water protection).  Later year subprojects include implementation of the Cikapundung
River Domestic Sanitation subproject and Ciliung River Basin Integrated Planning for
which a previous report has been prepared entitled Recommendations for Prokasih Program,
C'ikapwdung River, Bandung and Ciliwung River, JakartaBogor. Other subprojects include
urban areening  for Cirebon (municipality and district), Bandung (municipality), Tangerang
(municipality and district) and Bekasi (municipality).
Wetr J airta Entrotunmenalj ifMagerment Projectf (UYiE.IP)


﻿West Java JakArta Eniron mental Management Project (WJJE11P) Progranimiic Enironmental Re%iew  Page 19
6.0    Environmental Screening
94. Environmental screening of the Prorani components and subprojects was required to
satisfy both World Bank and GOI environmental procedures.
6.1    OPERATIONAL PDLICY 4.01
95. The   Operational Policy  4.01 (OP    4.01) of the   Bank   recommends   environmental
screening of each proposed subproject to determine the appropriate extent and type of EA
required. The Bank classifies a proposed project into one of four categories, depending on the
type, location, sensitivity, and scale of the project and the nature and magnitude of its
potential environmental impacts. In this case there is considerable variety in the range of
activities, works and programs proposed.
96. The four categories are:
(a) Category A.:     A proposed project is classified as 'Category A' if it is likely to have
sigificant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented.
These impacts may affect an area broader than the sites or facilities subject to physical
works. EA for a Category A project examines the projects potential negetive and positive
environmental impacts, compares them   with those of feasible altematives (including the
"without project" situation), and reconimends any measures needed to prevent, minimize,
mitigate, or compensate for adverse impacts and improve envirormental performance.
(b) Category B:      A proposed project is classified as 'Category B' if its potential adverse
environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas -
including wetlands, forests, grasslands and other natural habitats - are less adverse than
those of Category A projects. These impacts are site-specific; few if any of them are
irreversible; and in most cases mitigation measures can be designed more readily than for
Category A projects. The scope of EA for a Category B project may vary from project to
project, but it is narrower than for a Category A project.
(c) Categor C:      A proposed project is classified as 'Category C' if it is likely to have
minimal or no adverse environmental impact. Beyond screening no further EA acion is
required for a Category C project.
hd Category FI     A   proposed project is classified as 'Category Fl' if it is involves
investment of Bank funds through a financial intermediary, in subprojects that may result
in adverse environmental impacts.
97. For a financial intermediary (Fl) operation, the Bank requires that each FI screen
proposed subprojects and ensure that subborrowers carry out appropriate EA for each
subproject.  Before approving a subproject, the Fl verifies (through its own staff, outside
experts, or existing environmental institutions) that the subproject meets the environmental
requirements of appropriate national and local authorities and is consistent vith operational
procedures and other applicable environmental policies of the Bank.
98. In appraising a proposed FI operation, the Bank should review the adequacy of country
environmental requirements relevant to the project and the proposed EA arrangements for
subprojects, including the mechanisms and responsibilities for environmental screening and
review of EA results. When necessary, the Bank ensures that the project includes components
Ites Jav Jakaia Enuronmenal tlanagemem Project OUJEt/P)


﻿West JaNa Jakart Environmental Management Project (WJJE.11P) Programmic Environmental ReNiews  Page 20
to strengthen such EA arrangements. For Fl operations expected to have Category A
subprojects, prior to the Banks appraisal each identified participating FI provides to the Bank
a written assessment of the institutional mechanisms (including, as necessary, identification
of measures to strengthen capacity) for its subproject EA work If the Bank is not satisfied
that adequate capacity exists for carrying out EA, all Category A subprojects and, as
appropriate, Category B   subprojects--including EA  reports--are subject to prior review  and
approval by the Bank
6.2    G01 AMDAL IROCEDURES
99. GOI procedures employ quantitative criteria related to the surrounding environment of a
project in order to establish the required degree of environmental assessment. There are three
levels of assessment:
* Full   ANDAL      equivalent  to  fuill  project  specific  environmental
assessment;
* UKIJUPL       A    more    limited   assessment    using   standardized
environmental management and monitoring plans (referred to as upaya
or effort); and,
* SOP Standard Operating Procedures For Inclusion in Contract
documentation, which    sets  out  contractor's responsibilities  in  the
conduct of the works.
6.3    GOI ScREENING CRrrERL-
100. Screering criteria is outlined in Decree No. KEP-39/MENLH/8/1996 of the Minister of
State for the Environment. The types of projects in the Public Works (PU) sector that may
require an ANDAL are:
-        Construction and rehabilitation of dams and embankments;
-        Irrigation area development;
-        Tidal swamp area development;
-        Coastal protection in large cities;
-        River improvement works in large cities;
-        Canalization / flood control facilities in large cities;
-        Canalization (coastal areas, swaps, etc.);
-        Construction of toll roads and flyovers;
-        Highway construction;
Arterial and collector roads, construction and upgrading;
-        Bridges in metropolitan areas and in large and small cities;
-        Garbage disposal. using incineration,
-        Garbage disposal, using controlled landfill or sanitary landfill systems;
-        Garbage disposal using open dumping systems:
-        Drainage systems using canals in large cities ad metropolitan areas;
-        Construction of sewerage systems and waste water treatment facilities in
urban areas;
-        System  for withdrawal of water from  lakes, nivers, spnings or other water
sources;
-        Public housing and settlement construction
-        Urban renewal projects; and,
-        Construction of multi-story and apartment buildings.
Ses: J,Jav Jakarta Emvironmental miageent Project (KLEAP)


﻿West JaNa JakartA EnNironmental Management Project (WJJE1IP) Programmic Environmental Review  Page 21
10 1. Apart from the types of projects as listed above, projects situated in or bordering on one
of the following protected areas pursuant to Decree no. KEP-39/MENLH'/S/1996 require a
fill AMDAL:
-         Forest protection area;
-         Peat area;
-         Water catchment area;
-         Coastal edges;
-         River edges;
-         Areas surrounding lakes and reservoirs;
-         Nature conservation area (including nature reserves, wildlife reserves,
tourism forests, genetic protection areas and wildlife refuges);
-         Marine and   freshwater conservation areas (including marine waters,
fresh water bodies, coastal areas, estuaries, coral reefs and atolls which
have special features such as high diversity or a unique ecosystem);
-         Coastal mangrove areas;
-         National parks;
-         Recreation parks;
-         Nature parks;
-         Cultural reserve and scientific research areas (including karst areas,
areas with special cultural features, archaeological sites or sites with
high historical value); and,
-         Areas susceptible to natural hazards.
102. Types of projects not listed are required to implement UKIUPL. UKJUPL are free
standing and tend to be site specific. There provisions may be inserted in contracts but can
also become parts of operating plans, or the UKLUPL can be used in conjunction with
operating plans. These documerts are generally standardized. Care should be taken to ensure
that they are prepared so they can be useful for site-specific application. The Bank should -
require a site-specific EMP if there is any doubt concering the ability of the UKUIUPL to
fulfill the intent of the OP4.01 requirements.
7.0    Potential Environmental Impacts
103. The above descriptions of the six components demonstrate that the proposed project does
raise issues relevant to the environmental assessment (EA) operational policies of the World
Bank or the GOI AMDAL process.
104. Many of the initiatives particularly in the first two years (APL 1) of the project involve
the design and planning of technical assistance and raising environmental and health
awareness through broadly based public information campaigns and district specific spatial
planning initiatives. These initiatives would be screened as Category C activities under the
Bank procedures and would not qualify for screening under the GOI AMDAL procedures.
105. However, there are individual subproject within four of the components that are
considered to require further discussion and screening. As APL 2 activities commence, it is
expected that there will be subprojects implemented that require environmental review under
W;'est Jma Jak2rta Etnwrowrnenta Management Project (4WJJEAP)


﻿West Java Jakart Environniental Management Projet (WJJE.11P) Prugraminsic Enviroinental Re% iew  Page 22
the World Bank or GOI AMIDAL prcess. For instance the construction of solid waste
disposal facilities of the size and type likely to be supported by WJJEMP would be classified
as Category B.
106. Each of the four components that raise screening issues is discussed separately.
7.1    COMPONENT 2 - SOLID WASTE SUBCOMPONENTS INVOLVING THE CONSTRUCTION,
OPERATION AND REHABILITATION OF FINAL DISPOSAL SITES (IPA'S)
107. The potential impacts of these activities are well documented and include:
* Impacts on ground water and surface water which are potentially the
most adverse environmental impact, as a result of movement of
leachate offsite;
* Impacts on adjoining neighbors from poor operational practice relating
to odor and air quality and noise generated by truck movements. The
landfill  operation  can  also  significantly  change  vehicular  traffic
impacts on the areas along the access route; and,
* Potential limits to the use of surrounding land due to the perception of
the public about living in close proximity to a landfill.
108. Because landfills have the potential to create adverse environmental impacts, the site
should not be located close to:
* Residential areas (330m);
* Airports (8 kan);
* Drinking water supplies (including wells) (300m); and,
* Irrigation canals, rivers or lakes (100m).
109. Also, landfills should not be located:
* In flood prone areas (200 yr. Flood);
* On land where natural slopes are steeper than 20 degrees to the
horizontal (100m);
* In natural preservation areas; and,
* In areas of archaeological, natural history or cultural significance.
I 10. Positive benefits inchde:
* Income oeneration from waste recycling onsite from the off-site sale of
recyclablc goods;
* Employment opportunities on the landfill site; and,
* Service opportunities associated with the increased worker population
to the area.
British Columbia Guidehns for Sanitary Landfills
Wes: A Jaukra Em:tronmemarna gemen Projec (U UEMP)


﻿West Ja,a Jakarta Enx ironrnental M1anagement Project (NNJJE11P) Prograrnnic En ironniencal Resie,,  Page 23
I 11. Scavengers live in close proximity to landfill sites and are susceptible to various diseases
due to close contact with decaying refilse. Improvement of their condition will be required
and must be recognized when developing TPA        environmental management plans. Providing
useful training  in marketing of recyclable materials, provision of proper safety equipment
and education in health related matters, will contribute to their overall well-being.
112. Sanitary landfills of the size being considered under WJJEMP are considered Category
B. The impacts of such projects are well understood. The impacts are generally site-specific
and few if any of them are irreversible and in most cases mitigation measures can be
designed. Also, all of the landfills proposed are being designed as sanitary landfills (as
opposed to controlled), which will require high standards of leachate and gas generation
drainage. However, due to a specific request by GOI, full ANDAL assessments are being
camed out for the development of the new proposed landfill       at Cirelon. At Cirebon, the
existing site will be rehabilitated and with operations subject operations to an environmental
management plan. There is also a new site which has already been designated'for use and will
be assessed and planned during the first year of the project (APL I (see TOR for TPA
Kopiluhur).
113. Environmental Management (RKL) and Monitoring (RPL) Plans are a requirement when
an AINDAL is prepared. In the past there have been difficulties during the implementation of
these plans. In order to ensure hat these plans are relevant, financially viable and provide the
appropriate level of information, the    following  list of minimum    requirements for the
RKJRPL should be included into the TOR for the ANDAL
est jna ak.jrtj Envirwuental Mlanagement Project (UJEMIP)


﻿West Java Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WJJENIP) Programnmaic Environmental Review  Page 24
Guidelines for designing and undertaking the planning studies required for a Solid
Waste Management Plan (SWIP)
Stage 1: Waste Management System And Options
* Geographical and Organizational Setting
* Spatial Plan Designations
* Population
* Economic Base
* Physical Description/Constraints
Existing Solid Taste AIanagenient Svsten
* Characteristics of Solid Waste Stream
* Collection System
* Post-collection System - Operations
* Post-collection System - Administrative and Financial Structure
* Regional Solid Waste Management Issues and Objectives
* Description of Options
* Options Recommended for Stage 2 Evaluation
Stage 2: Detailed Evaluation Of Options
* Promotional and Educational Programs
* Reduction and Reuse
* Local Programs
* Encouragement for Provincial, National and Industrial Programs
Recclin
* Solid Waste Stream Strategies
* Responsibility
* Collection Svstems
* Processing and Shipping Systems
* Marketing System
* Involvement with Industry, Adjacent Jurisdictions and Other Levels of
Govemment
* Financial Evaluation
est Jva Jakarta Environnerval Afanageneru Project (JJEMIP)


﻿11est Java Jakaru Environmental Management Project (WJJEMP) Programnmic Environmental Review  Page 25
* Phasin Schedule
* Impacts
* Landfill Criteria For Solid Waste Management
* Responsibility
* Monitoring Disposal Of Solid Waste
* Financial And Operating Control - Regulatory Authority
* Final Report
Stage 3: Plan Preparation And Adoption
Goal And Strategy
* Reduction Goal
* Reduction Strategy
* Solid Waste Stream Targets and Management Strategies Targets
* Household Hazardous Products
* Recyclable Materials
* WildlifeVHuman Conflict Management
* Landfill Gas and Open Burning
* Closed Landfills
* User-Pay Programs
Control Of Sites And Facilities
* DiVision of Responsibility
* Operational Certificates
* Waste Stream Management Licenses
* Recycler Licenses
* Hauler Licenses
* Nodel Licenses
* Plan Format
Guidelines for the Development of a Monitoring Program for a Sanitary Landfill
1 1-. It will be required that a monitoring program be submitted to and approved by the
landfill manager and should address as a minimum, ground and surface water, landfill gas
and ambient air quality as set out pursuant to acceptable landfill criteria to be developed
during the first year of the Project (APL 1). Monitoring of other environnuntal media such as
Ist Ja'a Jakarr En,,o-enia, Afanagnent Project (TIJJEAMP)


﻿West Java Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WJJEMP) Programmiic Environmental Review  Page 26
vegetation and soils should be assessed and a program developed as the site-specific situation
warrants.
115.Record keeping will be mandatory with the owner and'or operator of a landfill required
to record and maintain the following informition:
* Copy of the permit(s) for the site or the certificate(s) of operation;
* Inspection records for inspections conducted by staff and regulatory
agencies (BAPEDALDA);
* Training procedures;
* Contingency plan and notification procedures;
* Closure and post-closure care plans;
* Monitoring results for gas, leachate, surface and ground water;
* Volumes of gas extracted/recovered from the site (where gas collection
and management are carried out);
* Volumes of leachate collected from the site (where leachate colbction
and management are carried out);
* Interpretations of monitoring results;
* Financial assurance documentation if financial assurance is required;
and,
* Copies of all annual reports.
116. Annual reports will also be mandatory. An annual Operations and Monioring Report
should be submitted to the Manager according to a schedule defined in the criteria for
sanitary landfills. These reports are to contain at least the following infonation:
* Total volume and/or tonnage of waste discharged into the landfill for'
the year;
* Approved design volume;
* Remaining site life and capacity;
* Operational plan for next 12 months;
* Operation and maintenance expenditures;
* Leachate,   water   quality  and  landfill  gas  monitoring  data   and
interpretation;
* Amounts of leachate collectd, treated and disposed;
* Any changes from approved reports, plans and specifications;
* An up to date contingency plan, noting any amendments made to ihe
plan during the year;
* Amount of landfill gas collected and its disposition; and,
* Review of the closure plan and associated estimated costs.
Vesi Javau Jakortom Emrotunental Alanagement Project (WJJELP)


﻿West Java Jakrta En% ironmental Management Project (WJJE11P) Progranimaic Environmental Res ieNN  Page 27
7.2    COMPONENT 3 - SNLALL AND illEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY SUBCOMPONENT WHICH
REQUIRES FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY LENDING
117. These projects in this subcomponent are designed to have positive environmental
outcomes. The purpose is to provide for the on-lending agency to target specific small and
medium scale industries to carry out pollution prevention programs and/or install and operate
wastewater treatment facilities. The impacts of such programs have been found to be positive
in previous projects carried out by OECF (Japan) and with German Government Assistance.
Selection of target industries for this project was based on high industry stakeholder interest,
polution loads, toxicity, strong industry associations and the potential for profit generation.
Target industries were:
* Tofu Production
* Batik Manufacture
* Electroplating
I 8. These industries are widespread in the project area with highly polluted wastewater
flows which are presently discharged to the local drainage systems. As the prposal is for
intermediary lending the project should be screened "Category FI with potential Category B
impacts".
119. The potential issue for consideration is to ensure that the institutional arrangements
between BAPEDAL (responsible for sub project review) aid BAPEDALDA (DKI and West
Java) (responsible for a monitoring plan and on-going review) have been clarified. This is
due to the perception within BAPEDAL that BAPEDALDA do not currently have resources
to address impacts emanating from small scale and mediun industries. Even though there are
resources being made available in the loan to bolster the capacity of BAPEDALDA,
discussions concerning the proposed institutional arrangements as to roles and responsibflities
and point of hand-over should be discussed between the parties with the objective of
preparing a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). It may be necessary for flAPEDAL to
continue with the monitoring function for the first year until the additional capacity is in
place at the BAPEDALDA.
120. Having the BAPEDALDA involved in ongoing monitoning activities should fonn an
important objective of the Program. Every effort should be made to ensure that sufficient
training is provided at this level and that BAPEDALDA staff are assigned a role in
monitoring activities of those participating small and medium scale industries. Initiative for
trainicn will also have to come from district level agencies that have a regulatory
responsiblity for environmental management Their participation may in fact be a condition
for continued participation in the Program.
121. The extent of responsiblity of the participating Bank for the environmental impact of the
subproject should also be made clear. There should be some consideration given as to
whether it is advisable to have Bank staff responsible for loan appraisal to be given training
into the approved procedures.
Vest, 1aa JaLana EnntronmwentalAfanagemeni Project (7JJE%!P)


﻿West Java Jakarta EnN ironnental Management Project (WNJJENP) PrograniunAic Environmental Re% iew  Page 23
7.3     COMPONENT 5 - COMUN        ITY EAIRONMENTAL FACILITY
122. This component also requires financial intermediary lending arrangements. The scope of
the CEF includes:
*  Improvements     to  public   health   by  providing   a   means    whereby   a
community or groups of individuals can carry out improvements to
environmental conditions at the local level; and,
*  Creation     of   entrepreneurial    opportunities    through    environmental
subprojects that result in incone generation and better living standards.
123. There are three categories of subprojects that can be considered for inclusion in the CEF
program: (i) general community environmental projects; (ii) support to a specific industry or
commercial activity; and (iii) support to groups of households.
124. The initial CEF    fiinding is Rp. 120 billion. The cumulative total of CEF          loan requests
received is projected to increase from about 24 in Year 1 (APL 2) to about 362 in Year 9
(APL 3). An estimated 50 percent of requests will be approved and funded. Table 7-1 shows
a table of indicative projects which have so far been defined at this stage. As shown in the
Table, the average sized project is around 2 Billion Rp. with the highest at 6.7 Billion and the
lowest at 300 Million Rp.
Table 7-1: Indicative List of Defined CEF Subprojects
Description ofSubprojects (prelimninar screening required for all)                              Rp. Jutt
Community Improvements (Construction of SPAL, MCK, and Waste Facilitics)                           1,491
Poor Urban Area Improvement                                                                        6,85S
Industrial Area Settlement Improvement                                                            3,14'
Coastal Area Settlement Improvement                                                                2,727
Greening using horticultural product for communitys economical improvement              .          550
Poor Area Improvement around Mcrak's Harbour (Merak Sari & Taman Sari Village)                     1,632
Main Drainage Improvements                                                                         2,69C
Provide Household Toilets                                                                           519
Construction for the Drainage System at Cibiru and Cileunyi Area                                   4,644
Construction of NICKs                                                                               300
Controlling Water Inundation in Residential Area                                                   2,966
Construction of Households' Waste Water Drainage                                                    750
Demonstration of Integrated Lake Management Situ Tengah                                            2,800
Managing the Effect of Water Contamination on Fish Number, by the Public                            427
Lake Management (Situ Gede)                                                                        1,252
Drainage Construction in Low Income Areas                                                          5,395
River Banks Regreening for Agricultural Uses in Bogor Municipality                                  980
Shelter Tree Planting with Economically Useful Agriculture Products                                1,153
Improvements of Fisherman Village and Fish Marketplace (Auction Market) at Cituis Village          4,57C
Construction of Communal Septic Tank                                                                480
Residential Area Improvement (KIP Tribina), Kel. Pekavonjaya                                       2,17C
P2LDT: House Repair & Environmental Roads and MICKs                                                1,80
Family Latrine, Household SPAL, and Clean Water Facility                                           1,75C
Creating Lake Mianagement Model                                                                     575
Greening with economically productive plants                                                        721
ii est Jcra Jaicarta Err.;ronu,eeral Managernern Project (TI'HEA!P1


﻿NNest Java Jakarta Environmental M1anagenent Project (WJJE.NP) Pmgramniic Emironmental Re'lsew  Page 2)
Residential Area Improvement (KIP Tribina)                                             2,417
Integrated Village Environment Improvement                                             1,9s7
Family Latrine, Household SPAL, and Clean Water Facility                                524
Improvement for the Quality of Life of Scavengers in DKI Jakarta                         815
Education of Scavengers for Solid Waste Management                                      671
Quality Improvement of Fishermen and Environment through the Efficient Application of  1,258
Technology
Total For Defined Projects 60,0M61I
Average Projedt Amount                                                                 1,875
Highest                                                                                 6858
Lowest30
125. As the Program will be using an on-lending facility, OP4.01 requires that institutional
arrangements for routine screening and if necessary, assessment of the environmental impacts
of the subprojects should be carried out. The most difficult feature of this component will be -
to identify whom or what organization is the proponent of the action. In many cases it may be
a reasonably diffuse community group and in other cases a specific small industy
entrepreneur. In order to ensure that environmental screening is routinely carried out it is
recommended that a similar but slightly modified procedure to that used in a recent Bank
project be utilized (i.e. the Kecamatan Development Project (KDP)).
126. Given that the average subproject cost is on average Rp. I billion, EMPs will possibly be
required particularly to provide for on and offsite impacts created by improvement to
drainage systems, settlement improvements, sanitation facilities etc. This would involve the
preparation of a review of individual subprojects by the facilitator that would need to be
assessed and checked by the Sub-Bagpro in consultation with the Kabupaten or Kotamadya
Bapedalda, Bappeda and/or delegated authority. The basis for the screening should be a list of
questions leading to a conclusion as to whether there will be any significant environmental
impacts. This checklist should be prepared for all subprojects and be included as part of the
appraisal documentation. The Bank should sample these checklists during supervision
missions for quality control purposes.
127. The Minisr, of Public Works AMDAL Screening Regulation should        be applied in all
instances particularly if there is any uncertainty as to the impacts of the project This is the
regulation which designates the limits for the size of a project for preparation of UKIJUPL
and SOP. Care needs to be exercised in using this regulation so that designated protected
areas are also included as part of the basis for the evaluation (KeTNMENLH/93). In practice,
the presence of a protected area has tended to be overlooked.
128. It is also considered essential for some training of the Kelurahan level facilitators in the
Agreed Environmental Procedures as well as to give them an understanding of the GOI
AMDAL process. This requirement should be added to the scope of work of the contact for
the private company which is to recruit the local level facilitators.
129. The demand for funding will require initial environmental reviews. This should occur
during APL 1 and every effort should be made to ensure good community involvement on
environmental projects and that support to specific industry or commercial activity be based
oi sound environmental considerations. This will mean that, where the GOI specificily
requests, , good ANDALS are completed, and the focus is on management of the facilities.
Under WJJEMP, ANDAL have been agreed to for Kopiluhur at Kodya Cirebon, and the
Cikapundung WWTP and [PLT Tangerang.
West Jav Jakgrta Emronrnewal tfanagernet Project (WJJEMP)


﻿West JaNa Jakarta EnNironmental Management Project (WJJE.N1P) Programmnic EnNironmental Re;iew   Page 30
7.4    COMPONENT 6 - ENA1'RONMENTAL MNAGEMENT
130. This component includes a number of projects which involve the planning, construction
and operation of either domestic or industrial wastewater facilities. It is similar to the solid
waste management component in that there are some facilities where there is p<lential for
significant environmental impacts unless the subprojects are adequately planned and
implemented. The projects which are proposed in the first batch include the planning and
design of reasonably large wastewater facilities (i.e., 7000 m'/day): one for addressing
industrial pollution and one for waste from domestic sources.
13 1. Subprojects being planned in the first year include the Jakarta Industrial estate at
Pulogadung which was a project originally proposed for implementation during the previous
JUDP 3 loan program. The project evolved from a State owned Persero Company project into_
a joint public private partnership with a Canadian company in a joint venture. This project
has become dormant because of the monetary crisis. It is considered to be wothy of support
by the project because it has the potential to treat the waste of up to 200 small scale industries
on the estate and also has the potential to service domestic wastewater from surrounding low-
income residential areas. GOI AMDAL documentaticn was prepared during the previous
phase. Due to delays in the project the industrial estate has been operating in violation of
AMDAL      environmental  regulations  and  other  Ministerial  decrees  set  out  in  the
Environmental Management Plan (not an unusual situation) prepared for the estate.
132. It is considered that the project should be supported but the study team for the update of
the  detailed  engineering  design  and  feasibility  assessment  should  also  include  an
environmental review  to ensure that all current viohtions are addressed and that any site
specific implications for using the preferred site for domestic wastewater in the adjoining
residential areas are allowed for in the feasibility analysis and detailed engineenng design.
The project may raise Category B Impacts and a UKLJUPL is to be prepared under GOI
AMDAL procedures.
133. The second project involves domestic wastewater trtatment plants at Tamansari and
Pasirluyu in Kotamadya Bandung. These areas have very high population densities and
require an off-site sanitation solution. A number of options have already been evaluated and
the favoured option at this stage is a series of fringing open collection (cutoff) drains leading
to large communal septic tanks. Approximately 2500nr    of land will be required and the
current proposal is to use government land owned by Dinas Pertamanan. PU criteria do not
require a full ANDAL for a communal septic tank that only requires 2500m2 of land. The
1996 KepMen PU requires ANDAL for an oxidation pond larger than 10 hedtares, UKL/UPL
for a pon between 5 and 10 hectres, and nothen for 5 hectares or less.
134. Experience by the Bank on previous projects in Surabaya Urban Development Project
suggests that adequate community preparation is essential for obtaining a reasonable number
of house connections for this type of project.
135. The current TOR for the ANDAL which has been prepared wvill need to be modified to
include a detailed methodology for ensuring that the community participation aspects of this
subproject   are    emphasised.   The     study   team     should   include    a   social
planner/sociologist/institutional specialist who will be responsible for implementation of the
community participation and public awareness program. The community preparation phase of
West J'va ia,a Emrronmental AlFnagement Project (W/EMLIP)


﻿West Ja%a Jakarta Eniron nental Management Project (WNJJE_I1P, Programnsic En% iron mental Review  Page 31
this work should start at least one year prior to physical construction in order to increase the
likelihood of attacting higher connection rates.
136. The other projects defined so far in this component are listed in Table 7-2. The
indicative projects which are listed as J projects will have potentil Category B Impacts, and
as shown, would be screened and require UKL/UPL using GOI procedures. The GOI is
responsible for reviewing these and the Bank will be limited to a check of the supervisors.
The local government responsible for implementation as the proponent will be responsible for
screening and implementation of the necessary level of assessment. All other projects were
Category C (OP 4.01) or NA under AIMDAL procedures.
Table 7-2: List of Defined Environmental Management Projects
Sub- Project Description                                             Rp.      IBRD     AMDAL
Juta    Category   Category
H Develop City Parks in Kab Cirebon as part of "Blue Sky" Program         330      C         NA
J PROKASIH                                                               2,965     C         NA
I Convert from Benzene to LPG for General Transportation Ve hicles and   8,700    C         NA
Taxis
(Revolving Fund Model)
H City Greening by planting the economic-useful plants                    745      C         NA
I Convert from Benzene to LPG for General Transportation Vehicles and     600     C          NA
Taxis
(Revolving Fund Model)
J Cikapundung River Training Works                                       2,775     B       ANDAL
J Cikapundung River Improvement Control Program to Control Waste Water  17,793     B      ANDAL
in Bandung
J Normalization of Small Rivers (13) in Kodya Bandung                   15,096     B       ANDAL
H City Parks and Green Belt Development                                  1,315     C         NA
H Greening                                                                858      C         NA
J Construction of CentralizedIntegrated Industrial [PAL for Industries around  10.000  B  UKL/UPL
Nlookevaart River
J Construction of CentralizedIntegrated Industrial IPAL for Industries around  10,000  B  UKLUPL
Sabi River
J Construction of Centralized]ntegrated Industrial IPAL for Industries around  10,000  B  UKLUPL
Cirarab River
) Construction of Treatment for Animal Slaug-htertng                     1,650     B      UKL'jPL
J PROKASIH and Improvement ofClean Water Faciliy                          688      C         NA
H Town Greening                                                            768     C         NA
I Air Quality                                                          63,667      C         NA
J Centralized Waste Water Treatment - JIEP (Physical Construction)      19,050     B      UKIJPL
1 Prokasih Ciliwung and Cisadane Ri%ers                                10,145     B      UKUUPL
177,145
8052
63667
330
H - Greening
I - Air Quality
J- Surface Water
7.5      IRAINING
i est Jam Jakarta Emvironmental Mangement Project (;I/DIP)


﻿West Java Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WJJEIP) Progranmmiic Environmental Re%iew  Page 
137. An important objective of the Project is to build greater capacity for managing
environmental projects at the local govenment level. A  significant training program  has been
incorporated into the project design to accomplish this goal. The approach taken is said to be
very  flexible. The   Secretariat's  Training  Unit under  the  Pimpro's   direction  will be
responsible for tendering  traunng  contractors, scheduling courses and  inviting participants.
For locally directed training, the municipaYdistrict governments themselves will make the
final decision on who will be trained, who will do the training and when and where it will
occur.
138. The training plan is targeted mainly at the officials and staff of local governments. As far
as possible it i demand driven and operates in a "bottom-up" fashion. For example, heads of
municipal/district governments are given a budget for training programs and an outline of
what types of training are acceptable. Based on local conditions, they then select course
topics, training suppliers and candidates for training. The suggested list of training courses
includes provision for 114 participants on environmental regulations and over 400 on
environmental planning and management (see Table 7-3). There are also sectcr specific
courses for 24 participants in more specialized areas such as solid waste management and
wastewater management. However, as the process is "bottomup" with significant local
decision-making authority, the actual courses may deviate from this list to allow for
adaptation to local priorities and should be integrated to the extent possible to support
specific subprojects being planned and assessed in the first two years of implementation
(APL 1).
c;r Jaia Jakarta Emirornental Al Mangemtent Project (WJJEMP)


﻿West Java Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WJJEM.11) ProgranimAic En'ironmental Review  Page 33
Table 7-3: Proposed Training Program
Number of
INo.          Training Program            Days     Hours        Offered by       Pmrci    f
SParticipants
I.   Overseas Comparative Study             0        -2
2.   Solid Waste Management                 15       -              -                 6
3.   Overseas Compost Technology           20        -     Canadian Institution       5
4.   Project Finance                       15        124   LPPM 2
5._  Project Orientation                    1        7     Project                   219
6.   Project Management                    10        S2    LPPM                      102
7.   Environmental Re-ulations              1        7     INKINDO                   114
S.   Environmental Planning and            14        98   INKINDO                    414
Management
9.   Solid Waste Management                 7        49    AKA Bogor                  24
10.  Wastewat er Management                12       S4    AKA Bogor                  24
11.  Water Pollution Monitoring            12       84    AKA Bogor                  24
12.  Community Participation               7        4S    LPEM                       24
13. Cleaner Production                      7       4S    AKA Bogor                  24
14. Air Pollution Monitoring               12       84    A4KA Bogor                 12
15.  Public Health Management              16       132   FKM-Ul                     24
16. Treasury Certificate A & B             15       105   BadiklatDepdagri           60
17.  Evaluating Training Programs           1        7    SDM Indonesia, DDI          2
18.  CEF Implementation Course              7       49    Project                    56
19.  Privarization for Senior Officials     6       49    LPPM                       75
20.  Planning and implementirg             12        98    LPPM                       90
Privatization- Mechanisms
21   Benefit Monitorin and Evaluation      3        21    BadiklatDepdaQri          400
8.0     Conclusions &      Recommendations
139. WJJEMP was reviewed in relation to OP4.01 and the GOI AMDAL                procedures. In
addition to the Bank and GOI environmeatal requirements, the design of WJJEMP is further
strengthened through the selection of the Bank's Adaptable Program Loan (A.PL) approach.-
APL offers the GOI the necessary flexibility required, as a phased approach to borrowinT will
allow the government to make any necessary adjustments to the Program that will improve
the  overall  environmental   performance   of  related  activities.  During  APL    1,  overall
environmental management protection wil be the primary focus with policy development
and  environmental plaming measures developed during the first three years. Infrastructure
development, including the development of sanitary landfills, will be the main thrust under
APL 2, and will be guided by the early adoption of environmental measures thus contributing
towards sound environmental management.
140. The proposed subprojects raise issues relevant to the environmental assessment (EA) and
operational policies of the World Bank and the GOI AIDAL process. Many of the initiatives
particularly in the first two years of the project involve the design and planning of technical
assistance and raising environmental and health awareness through broadly based public
infotmation  campaigns and district specific spatial planning projects. These initiatives would
be screened as Category C activities under the Bank procedures and would not qualify for
screening under the GOI AMDAL procedures.
West Java Jakarta Eavrownera, Alanagement Projeci (IJJEAfP)


﻿NXest Java Jakarta Environmental Management Project (WJJENIP) ProgrannAic Environmental Review  Page 34
141. There were four of the six components which were found to contain subprojects that
required screening under the combined World Bank and GOI procedures. Using these
combined requirements it is considered that the program should be implemented as a
Category B project.
8.1    COMPONENT2 - SOLID WASTE
142. It is considered that such projects are Category B. The impacts of such projects are well
understood. The inpacts are generally site-specific and few if any of them  are irreversible;
and in most cases mitigation measures can be designed. Also, all of the landfills proposed are
being designed  as sanitary landfills (as opposed to controlled), which  will require high
standards of leachate drainage and gas generation control. Due to a speicific request from
GOI,   a full ANDAL assessment will being carried out for the development of a new
proposed landfill at Cirebon.
8.1.1 Proposed Mitigation or Environmental Safeguard
143. Environmental Management (RKL) and Monitoring (RPL) Plans are a requirement when
an ANDAL is prepared. In order to ensure that these plans are relevant, financially viable and
provide the appropriate level of information the following list of minimum requimnents for
the RKUJRKL should be included into the TOR for the ANDAL.
144. Environmental Management and Monitoring Plans (RKLRPL's) should include projects
to be included in Contract Specifications. Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) to
include: (i) a thorough but relevant description of the environmental context of proposed or
existing site; (ii) a description/analysis of altemate sites within a spatial planning context; and
(ii) a cbscription of the 'Community Consultation Program' carried out which includes all
stakeholders and arrangements for on-going consultation.
145. A Site Management Plan should include:
* Proposed area of site with projected volumes
* Site layout
* Soil and geology with geotechnical data and relevant analysis
* Type of lining proposed
* Underdrainage proposed
* Vent drainage proposed
* Overburden removal and storage
* Cell development plan
* Leachate treatment design
* Operation and maintenance profile
* Projected budgets including equipment schedule, staff with total
runnmg cost per annum.
8.2    COMPONENT3 - SNALLMEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIES
;'est 1J.a Jakarta Emvowunenwai Alakagement Froject (OfI'EA!P,


﻿West Jaxa Jakarta Environmental Management Project (NNJJE.1IP) ProgranunAic Environmental ReNieNs  Page 35
146. These industries are widespread in the project area with highly polluted wastewater
flows which are presently discharged to the local drainage systems. As the proposal is for
intermediary lending the project should be screened "Category FI with potential Category B
impacts".
8.2.1 Proposed Institutional Arrangements
147. The potential issue for consideration is to ensure that the institutional arrangements
between BAPEDAL (responsible for subproject review) and BAPEDALDA (DKI and West
Java) (responsible for a monitoring plan and on-going review) have been clarified. This is
due to the perception within BAPEDAL that BAPEDALDA do not currently have resources
to address small and mediumscale industries. Even though there are resoirces being made
available in the loan to bolster the capacity of BAPEDALDA, discussions concerning the
proposed institutional arrangements as to roles and responsibilities and point of handover
should be discussed between the parties with the objective of preparing a Memorandum of-
Understanding (MOU). It may be necessary for BAPEDAL to continue with the monitoring
function for the first year until the additional capacity is in place at the BAPEDALDA. It is
proposed that all activities over Rp. I billion slDuld involve the local BAPEDALDA when
formulating an EMP. The learming experience will contribute to strengthen the institutions
through their involvement in the Project Their participation should also be based on their
own training initiatives and should also be used as a gauge for their continued involvement
148. The extent of responsibility of the participating Bank for the environmental impact of the
subproject should also be made clear. There should be some consideration given as to
whether it is advisaHe to have Bank staff responsible for loan appraisal to be given training
into the approved procedures.
8.3    COIPONENT4 - COImUNITY ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY (CEF)
149. As the Project will be using an on-lending facility, OP4.01 requires that institutional
arrangements for routine screening and if necessary, assessment of the environmental impacts
of the subprojects should be carried out.
8.3.1 Proposed Institutional Arrangements
150. The most difficult feature of this component will be to identify   whom   or what
organization is the proponent of the action. In many cases it may be a reasonably diffuse
community group and in other cases a specific small industry entrepreneur. In order to ensure
that environmental screening is routinely carried out it is recommended that a similar but
sligzhtly modified procedure be employed similar to that used in a recent Bank project i.e. the
Kecamatan Development project (KDP).
151. This would involve the preparation of a simple checklist form for each sub-project by the
facilitator that would need to be reviewed and checked by the Sub-Bagpro in consultation
with the Kabupaten or Kotamadya Bappedelda, Bappeda and,or delegated authority. The
basis for the screening should be a list of questions leading to a conclusion as to whether
there will be any significant environmental impacts. This checklist should be prepared for all
subprojects and be included as part of the appraisal documentation. These checklists should
he sampled by the Bank either routinely to RSI Jakarta or during supervision missions for
quality control purposes.
est krva JQa.art Enironmnal Alan?agemnt! Project tJ EtP)


﻿West Ja%a Jakarta EnNironmental Management Project (WJJE11P) Programnmic Environmental Review   Page 36
152. It is also considered essential for some training of the Kelurahan level facilitators in the
Agreed Environmental Procedures as well as to give them an understanding of the GOI
AMDAL process. This requirement should be added to te scope of work of the contract for
the private company which is to recruit the local level facilitators.
8.3.2 CEF Environment Checklist
153. A CEF environmental checklist is to be developed during APL 1 with CEF subprojects
being implemented during APL 2. This conponent will support generally small community
supported initiatives such as greening, small-scale communal waste treatment (septic tanks)
systems, drainage etc.; some of which could require ANDAL thus they would be classed as
Category B. In support of a hecklist it is also proposed to use the Environmental Data Sheet
from the Bank Operational Manual. For instance, required information will include the
following:
* Project   location  and  information  about  the  key   environmental
characteristics of the area likely to be affected by the project, and
proximity of any protected areas or sites or critical natural habitats;
* Major environmental issues identified or suspected in the project;
* Other environmental issues of lesser scope associated with the project;
* Proposed actions to mitigate environmental issues described above;
and,
* Justification/rationale  for  environmental the  selected  category  and
reasons and explanation of any changes from initial classification,
including whether any changes relate to altematives'.
154. In addition, a reporting schedule for Category B subprojects should be submitted. It is
probable that a separate EA report will be required. The status of any other environmental
studies, lists of local groups and local NGOs consulted and, where EA reports were made
public locally, tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA report, etc.
8.4    COMPONENT 6 - INVIRONMENTAL M-NAGEN1EN-T
155. This component includes a number of projects that involve the planning, construction
and operation of either domestc or industrial wastewater facilities. It is similar to the solid
waste component in that there are some facilities where there is potential for significant
environmental impacts unless the subprojects are adequately planned and implemented.
1 56. The projects vhich were defined include the planning and design of reasonably large
wastewater facilities (i.e., 7,000 m/day): one for addressing industrial pollution and one for
waste from   domestic sources. The domestic wastewater facilities proposed in Kotamadya
Bandung would be a Category B World Bank project, but an ANDAL has been requested by
GOI and a draft TOR has been prepared. The industrial wastewater project at Pulogadung
Industrial Estate in Jakarta was also considered to be Category B and a UKL/JUPL, is to be
prepared under GOI procedures as part of the feasibility review.
Environmental Data Sheet from Bank OP 40.1
Vest Java Jakara Enrorunenal Management Project (If JEAP)


﻿NNest Java Jakarta Enironmental Management Project (WJJEMP) Programmic EnN ironmental Re%iew  Page 37
8.4.1  Proposed Environmental itigation
157. The current TOR for the ANDAL for the Kotarnadya Bandung wastewater treatment
plant that has been prepared will need to be modified to include a detailed rthodology for
ensuring that the community participation aspects of this subproject are emphasized. The
study team should include a social planner/sociologist/institutional specialist who wil be
responsible  for  implementation  of   the  community    participatic  and  public  awareness
program. The community preparation phase of this work should start at least one year prior to
physical construction in order to increase the likelihood of attracting higher connection rates.
158. For the Jakarta Industrial Estate Project at Pulogadung, it is considered that the project
should be supported. The study team for the update of the detailed engineering design and
feasibility assessment should also include an environmental review (UKUUPL) to ensure
that all current violations are addressed and that any site-specific implications for using the
preferred site for domestic wastewater in the adjoining residential areas are allowed for in the
feasibility analysis and final DED.
159. Other projects defined to date were screened as Category C projects under World Bank
procedures and were not applicable under GOI AMDAL procedures.
I esma Jakarta Eironenta' .tlwagement Proect (1JJEMP)


