Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21029-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11.7 MILLION AND
A PROPOSED CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.6 MILLION AND
A GEF GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
WESTERN JAVA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF
THE WESTERN JAVA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
MAY 15, 2001
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 25, 2001)
Currency Unit = Rupiah
lRp = US$.0001
US$1 = 9,600
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              Asian Development Bank
AMDAL            Environmental Impact Assessment (process)
APL              Adaptable Program Loan
BAPPEDA-1        Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPEDA-II       District Development Planning Agency
BAPEDAL          National Environrnental Impact Management Agency
BAPEDALDA        Provincial Environmental Impact Management Agency
Propinsi
BAPEDALDA        Municipality/District Environmental Impact Management Agency
Kotamadya/
Kabupaten
BAPPENAS         National Development Planning Agency
BOD              Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BOO/BOT          Build-Own-Operate/Build Operate Transfer (private sector participation
mechanisms)
Bupati           Chief executive of a kabupaten
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CDS              City Development Strategy
CEF              Comnnunity Environment Fund
CPSU             Central Program Support Unit
DKI Jakarta      Jakarta Metro Area (Daerah Khusus Ibukota Jakarta)
DGURD            Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development, Ministry of Settlements
and Regional Infrastructure (also known as Kimpraswil)
DPRD             Provincial Council of a Province or the Local Council of a Kabupaten or a
Kota
EA               Environmental Assessment
EMP              Environmental Management Plan
FMS              Financial Management System
GBWMC            Greater.Bandung Waste.Maiiagement Corporation
GEF              Global Environment Fund
GHG              Greenhouse Gas
GOI              Government of Indonesia
GTZ              German Technical Assistance
IPLT             Wastewater Treatment Plant
IUIDP            Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Project
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director    Mr Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. Keshav Varna, EASUR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mr Finn Nielsen, EASUR



JABOTABEK         Jakarta metropolitan area (Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang, Bekasi)
JIEP             Jakarta Industrial Estate Pulogadung
JUDP3             Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project (Ln. 3246-IND)
JWMC              Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation
Kabupaten        District
Kota             Incorporated Municipality
KIP               Kampung (poor neighborhood) Improvement Program
LACI             Loan Administration Change Initiative
MEIP              Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Project
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MSRI             Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure
MOU               Memorandum of Understanding
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
NIMBY             "Not In My Back Yard" phenomenon associated with siting landfills
NKLD              "State of the Environment" Report
OECF             Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (of Japan)
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
O&M               Operations and Maintenance
PAP               Project Affected Person
PER              Programmatic Environment Review
PLG              Participating Local Government
PMR              Project Management Reporting
PROKASIH          Clean Rivers Program
Propenas         Parliamentary Decree
RKL/RPL          Environment Management/Monitoring Plans
Sekwilda         Chief Administrative Officer - Secretary of provincial or local governent
SLA              Subsidiary Loan Agreement
TA               Technical Assistance
TPA               Solid Waste Landfill
UKL/UPL           Environmental Management and Monitoring Plans
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
Walikota          Chief Executive of a Kota
WJEMP             Westem Java Environmental Management Project



I



INDONESIA
WESTERN JAVA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                   Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                 3
2. Project development objective                                                       3
3. Global objective                                                                    3
4. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                   6
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      10
3. Benefits and target population                                                     10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         15
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                            15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           18
2. Financial                                                                          19
3. Technical                                                                          20
4. Institutional                                                                      20
5. Environmental                                                                      20
6. Social                                                                             22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25
F. Sustainability and Risks



1. Sustainability                                                                    25
2. Critical risks                                                                    26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    29
G. Main Loan/Credit/GEF Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           30
2. OtherLoan/Credit/GEF Grant Covenants                                              30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summaiy                                                         32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        64
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Sunmmary         69
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   75
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      77
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    91
Annex ,8: Documents in the Project File                                                 92
Anmex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 96
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           98
MAP(S)
IBRD 30672



INDONESIA
Westem Java Environmental Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASUR
Date: May 15, 2001                                 Team Leader: Finn Nielsen
Country Director: Mark Baird                       Sector Director: Keshav Varma
Project ID: P040528                                Sector(s): US - Urban Environment, VP - Pollution Control
/ Waste Management
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Environment; Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Global Supplemental ID: P068051                    Team Leader: Finn Nielsen
Sector Manager/Director: Keshav Varma
Supplement Fully Blended? Yes                      Sector(s): US - Urban Environment; VP - Pollution Control
/ Waste Management
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan        Implementation Period           Borrower
_________  _______________                 ~~(Bank   FY)
IDAIIBRD          Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APL 1        17.53    77.1     5.22       22.75     08/01/2001   06/30/2005 Republic of Indonesia
Loan/
Credit
APL 2        49.27    75.2    16.21       65.48     01/01/2004   12/31/2007 Republic of Indonesia
Loan]
Credit
APL 3        22.09    54.1    18.73       40.82    08/01/2006   12/31/2010 Republic of Indonesia
Loan/
Credit    _ _ _ _ _   _ _ __                     _ _ _ _ _
Total        88.89   _        40.16      129.05
[X] Loan     [X] Credit    [X] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ O Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$11.78 million (IBRD); and US$5.75 (IDA) (SDR 4.60 million) shown in the IDA/IBRD column,
and a Grant of SDR 2 million (US$2.54 million equivalent) from GEF in the "Others" column. For APL2 and APL3, the
blend IDA/IBRD will be determined at the time of negotiations, reflecting Indonesia's eligibility for IDA at the time.
A total of $10 million has been committed from GEF; the remaining $7.46 million would be disbursed over APL2 and
APL3.
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                           Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75                              Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50                              Service charge: 0.75%



Financing Plan (US$m): Source                                Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        2.60           0.08          2.68
IBRD                                                            8.21           3.56          11.77
IDA                                                             4.00           1.75           5.75
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     2.52           0.01          2.53
Total:                                                         17.33           5.40         22.73
Borrower/Recipient: REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF SETTLEMENTS AND REGIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development
Address: Jl.Patimura No. 20, Jakarta, Indonesia
Contact Person: Ir. Budiman Arief, Director General of Urban and Rural Development
Tel: 62-21-72-79-6155                Fax: 62-21-72-79-6155                Email:
Other Agency(ies):
BAPPENAS (National Development Planning Agency)
Address: Jl. Madiun No. 4-6, 3rd Floor, Jakarta, Indonesia
Contact Person: Mr. Dedi M. Masykur Riyadi, Deputy of Regional and Natural Resources
Tel: 62-21-334-819              Fax: 61-21-310-1921                Email: sudjana@bappenas.go.id
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005
Annual    1.98        6.70       4.95       3.90
Cumulative    1.98        8.68      13.63      17.53
Project implementation period: 2001-2004
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCS APPAD F-. R. Mdh 2MM
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
As reflected in Indonesia's National "Agenda 21" and supporting parliamentary decrees, the
Govermment of Indonesia (GOI) has embarked on a campaign to reduce environmental pollution. The
ultimate goals of the program are to improve living conditions and improve Indonesia's international
competitiveness. A critical priority is improving urban environmental management. GOI has elected to
initiate its environmental program by focusing first on urban areas in western Java including Jakarta.
These areas are home to most of Indonesia's industries and have severe pollution problems which affect a
large and dense population. They were also among those hardest hit by the recent economic crisis. The
Bank has been requested to assist with a nine-year program to address the local governments' highest
priority environmental problems. The proposed program falls within the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), which was developed in partnership with GOI. The program will:
(a) strengthen institutionally and economically the local, provincial and regional institutions
responsible for waste management and environmental control;
(b) develop local environmental strategies and plans within the national strategy;
(c) increase community awareness and participation in environmental management both at the
local government and community levels;
(d) improve waste collection and disposal as well as support activities directed at waste reduction,
reuse and recycling;
(e) improve the environmental conditions of a number specific, high priority localities; and
(f) assist in developing a commercial level composting industry through a grant from the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF).
The nine-year program will be implemented with a three-phase adaptable program loan (APL).
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The APLI, to be implemented over 40 months, will: (a) lay the strategic framework which will form the
institutional and community foundation for sustainable environmental waste management among the
participating local and provincial governments; (b) prepare detailed designs for the investments to be
implemented mostly during the subsequent two phases; and (c) form the basis for reducing Greenhouse Gas
(GHG) emissions by establishing commercial scale compost production.
3. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
The program supports the Global Environment Facility (GEF) objective of reducing methane generation
and therefore greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This will be accomplished by supporting increased
composting of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste instead of dumping it in landfills. Composting
reduces GHG emissions by (a) avoiding the production of methane gas from anaerobic decomposition of
organic waste; and (b) producing a useful agricultural input that reduces the need for synthetic fertilizers
(which contribute significant GHG emissions through their production).
4. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The performance indicators mentioned in this section apply to APL I components only.
The key policy indicators include the following: (a) successful development and adoption/implementation
of: (i) policies on hospital waste management; (ii) landfill advisory committees; (iii) community
environment facilities; (iv) Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation and Greater Bandung Waste
- 3 -



Management Corporation with local funding; and (v) an environmental awareness program; and (b) public
review of the annual "State of the Environment" reports.
Key physical indicators include: (a) production and marketing of some 60,000 tons of additional quality
compost; and (b) establishment of some 1000 plus community environment subprojects, known as "green
KIP" projects, through participating local governments.
A key social indicator is assistance provided to some 7,000 waste-pickers and collectors.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-0001(IDA\R2001-0003;IFC\R2001-0002)            Date of latest CAS
discussion: 01/30/2001
The CAS of 2001 emphasizes three broad objectives: sustaining economic recovery and promoting
broad-based growth, building national institutions for accountable government, and delivering better public
services to the poor. The proposed Western Java Environment Management Project substantially
contributes to the third objective by promoting more efficient service delivery by local governments. The
environment will be improved in the participating urban areas mostly by improving solid waste
management, but also by defining programs for industrial and medical waste, by monitoring environmental
performance systematically, and by carrying out public awareness campaigns and local institutional
strengthening. Assistance to waste-pickers (including waste collectors in residential and industrial areas)
will contribute towards the larger target of poverty reduction.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The GEF program will reduce greenhouse gasses and provide other environmental benefits such as more
efficient use of synthetic fertilizers, reduced soil erosion, and more sustainable agricultural practices. The
project is fully consistent with the Short Term Climate Change window of the GEF's Operational Strategy.
It meets the criteria for such projects in that it is: (a) cost effective (a unit GHG abatement cost of about
$1.75 per tonne of carbon equivalent); (b) likely to succeed as shown through previous pilot activities; and
(c) one of Indonesia's top priority GHG abatement initiatives as reflected in the Algas Report, pp. 13 and
15, and is strongly supported by the community and local administrators. An independent technical
committee will be established to monitor and verify the compost production and GHG emission reductions.
This committee will establish Indonesia as a "center of excellence" for both compost production and
research.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The sector is defined here as "urban environment and pollution and waste management". The main issues
are:
a) high levels of air and water pollution from many sources, especially solid waste, vehicle
emissions, industrial and residential waste water;
b) low public awareness about the health impacts of urban pollution and ways to address that
pollution;
c) inadequate enforcement of existing, appropriate regulations and incorrect pricing for services
and "violations" of rules;
d) institutional weaknesses at all levels, unclear roles of each level, and thus poor coordination,
resulting in poor service delivery;
e) inadequate capital investment to keep up with population and waste growth;
- 4 -



f) low human resource capacity; and
g) insufficient recurrent budgets, linked to poor cost recovery, resulting in inadequate private sector
participation and overall inefficiency.
The main issues in the sector have been well studied and are documented in the following reports:
Indonesia Environment and Development: Challenges for the Future (Report No. 12083-IND, 1994)
This report provides a comprehensive analysis of environmental challenges facing Indonesia, as
well as their causes, impacts, the costs and ways to finance remediation, and a priority action list. The
report provides order of magnitude estimates which are sufficient to identify the highest priority issues,
namely, water supply and sanitation, solid waste management, vehicle emissions and industrial pollution
control particularly in Java.
Private Sector Participation in Solid Waste in Indonesia (Informal Sector Report, 1995)
This report summarizes barriers to greater private sector participation in waste management
activities (e.g., lack of technical knowledge, inadequate planning and contract periods being too short) and
suggests ways to improve service delivery through the judicious use of private firms, largely through
increased competition, accountability and transparency.
Community Based Composting and Recycling Pilot Project (1996)
Through the Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development, the Bank carried
out six integrated pilots under three Bank urban projects (in Sulawesi, Bali, and East Java). The pilot
projects provided many lessons (e.g., the community's enthusiasm and technical feasibility), and were
successful in highlighting the potential for community involvement in waste management activities.
Jabotabek Environmental Manaaement Strategv (1995)
Funded by the Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project, this comprehensive report reviewed
the causes of environmental degradation in Jabotabek (economic and technical review) and prioritized
activities to respond to the environmental degradation. This study was part of a similar exercise (assisted
by the UNDP Municipal Environmental Improvement Program) carried out in Kuala Lumpur, Manila,
Bombay, Katmandu, and Beijing, and is the basis of this project.
Other Reports
During project preparation, five studies/reports were prepared: (a) Community-Based Solid Waste
Management, May 1998; (b) A Rapid Appraisal of Industrial Pollution Abatement in Semarang Indonesia
- Issues and Opportunities, September 1998; (c) Review of the Kampung Improvement Program -
Evaluation in Jakarta, September, 1998; (d) Evaluation of the Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP3, July
1996; and (e) Assessment of Popular Participation of KIP JUDP3, June 1995. These reviews highlighted
the complexity of community involvement in urban environmental activities and the clear need to bridge
community demands and local govemment capabilities. Preparation of the JUDP3 ICR also highlighted the
need for local government "ownership" and management of project implementation, as well as the beneficial
impact of community involvement.
Two other reports were prepared by the Bank's Environment and Social Unit in 1999: (a) A
Review of Landfills in Indonesia, and (b) Environmental Management Plan Implementation in Indonesia:
Review of Selected Urban Projects. Both reports highlighted the difficulties in ensuring that landfills are
operated properly and recommended greater community involvement and more attention to operations.
- 5 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project is part of the Government's program to improve the local environments and competitiveness of
urban areas and to bring about improved municipal management, greater cost recovery, and reduced
environmental contamination. The project will support the shift of decision-making from central
government to some of the most capable local governments in Indonesia. The project addresses the local
and provincial governments' highest priority environmental problems, as perceived by the local
govermments and documented in the studies referred to in section 2, above. A copy of GOI's draft Program
Development Letter is included as an attachment to Annex 1.
Inadequate Provision of Municipal Services. Services (e.g., waste collection, transport and disposal) are
poorly integrated across agencies and the private sector. There has been insufficient focus on cost
recovery, inadequate and inefficient investments, poor operations management and inefficient asset use.
With the decentralization of responsibilities for provision of all services to local governments, sustainable
provision of these services has come into focus.
Local Government Leadership. Local governments are the key agencies in addressing urban
environmental issues but they are easily overwhelmed by the magnitude of environmental problems.
Planning is piecemeal: the three levels of government (local, provincial, central) seldom coordinate their
plans, nor do the adjacent local governments. Many studies exist but they tend to be driven by the
availability of extemal financing. Communities have little involvement in decision-making or monitoring of
the services provided. Policy issues such as incentives, institutional arrangements, implementation
capabilities, and proper landfill siting processes are seldom addressed. The project will support local
governments, as provincial and national government agencies delegate implementation and enhance their
own roles of "assistant" and "regulator" respectively.
Solid Waste Management. The project focuses mainly on solid waste which is a major source of air and
water pollution and local flooding. Due to factors such as income growth, lifestyle changes and
consumerism, the rate of waste generation is increasing faster than the rate of local population growth, and
the composition is changing even faster, compounding waste management problems. Environmental
upgrading needs a holistic approach. For example, making incremental improvements in many interrelated
areas, such as improving solid waste collection, will have minimal benefits in BOD loadings, if there are
not corresponding advancements in sewerage and industrial pollution control.
Composting Viability. Composting can be a less technically demanding option than sanitary landfiUing
(with methane recovery), land reclamation, or incineration and should provide a cost effective way to deal
with a part of the growing waste stream. The GEF funding supports the piloting project to scale up the
production of compost from a neighborhood activity to a industrial commercial level with marketing as an
agro-chemical product.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
APL1 - August 31, 2001 to December 31, 2004
Program Area. From the outset, participation was open to all local governments in westem Java and
Jakarta. During preparation, some local governments withdrew for various reasons. At present the three
provinces of DKI Jakarta, West Java and Banten are participating as well as a total of eight local
govemrnments including: Bandung (City and District), Bekasi (City and District), Bogor City, Cilegon City,
Cirebon City, Depok City, Serang District, and Tangerang City.
- 6 -



1. Overall Urban Environmental Management (US$11.1 million)
Development of provincial and local environmental strategies;
Development of a strategic plan for the collection and disposal of medical waste;
Management and technical adivsory services to the Central Program Support Unit;
Engagement of local communities in decision-making in environmental management including
community consultations in connection with the issuance of the annual 'state of the environment'
reports, and establishment of a landfill advisory board for each existing landfill/waste dump;
Review and improvement of the curriculum for environmental education in the public school
system;
Program to build local environmental awareness in DKI Jakarta;
Preparation of a Cilegon/Serang 'Emergency Response Plan' for potential large scale industrial
accidents;
Conduct of feasibility studies, detailed engineering design, and works to treat wastewater and to
improve the Kesenden Oxidation Pool in Kota Cirebon;
Study, detailed engineering design (DED) and construction for lake rehabilitation in Kota Depok;
Preparation of a sewerage scheme to improve the quality of the Cikapundung River in Bandung
City;
Feasibility study, environmental assessment and DED, and construction for a domestic wastewater
treatment plant in Kota Tangerang;
DED and drainage construction works for urban areas in Kota Depok;
Development of city parks and greening in Kota Cirebon.
2. Solid Waste Management (US$6.88 million)
Development of the organizational structure for the Jabotabek and Greater Bandung Waste
Management Corporations, and establishment of these organizations;
Preparation of feasibility studies for landfills and preparation of waste management plans,
including environmental impact assessments and remedial plans (AMDALs), as well as
construction of Kopiluhur landfill (Kota Cirebon) and provision of transport and collection
facilities and heavy equipment;
Improved solid waste management services, feasibility study, AMDAL, DED for new landfill in
East Serang;
Design of the GEF Grant Mechanism for compost, development of a market for agricultural use of
commercial scale composting and establishment of a technical advisory team;
Development of compost facilities in Jakarta (100 tons per day minimum) including environmental
assessments, financing plans, detailed engineering design, and marketing assistance program; or
engagement by DKI Jakarta in a multi-year contract for procurement of 100 tons per day of good
quality compost from the market;
Preparation of an assistance program for waste-pickers (both at landfills and collectors in the
cities) and development of a community-based solid waste management program for waste
reduction through reuse, reduce and recycle ("3Rs"); and
Construction of a new solid waste disposal site in Kota Tangerang (feasibility studies, AMDAL,
DED will be done under TA to the CPSU in component 1).
3. Community and Private Sector Participation (US$1.86 million)
Preparation of a program design and implementation plan to reduce waste from small and
medium-size industries;
-7 -



-     Preparation of program design and implementation plan for a Community Environmental Facility
(CEF) to assist communities in developing activities and small businesses to reduce environmental
pollution;
-     Preparation of a program to reduce pollution from soybean processing industries in central Jakarta,
and support to soybean processing and salted fish industries in northem Jakarta;
-     Revision of the design of the plans for the wastewater treatment plant in the Jakarta Industrial
Estate Pulogadung (JIEP) to include wastewater from neighboring residential areas, preparation of
a environmental impact assessment (AMDAL), detailed design, and preparation of management
and financing plans; and
-     Feasibility studies for centralized wastewater treatment for industries in Serang and Tangerang.
4.    Composting Support (GEF Program) (US$2.79 million)
-     Disbursement of grants and subsidies to compost producers for additional production in local
governments participating in WJEMP.
Requirements (triggers! to proceed with APL2
a) Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation and Greater Bandung Waste Management
Corporation have been established and their operations are funded partially by the revenues
generated from their transactions;
b) Each participating local government (PLG) has selected at least one landfill and established for
the landfill a neighborhood advisory committee that meets regularly;
c) The funding arrangement between the central government and local and provincial governments
has been established for APL2 and APL3 activities, including the ratio of grant/counterpart
matching fund levels;
d) PLGs' solid waste net revenues have increased by 20% over FY200 1 net revenues;
e) Waste management master plans for Jabotabek and Bandung regions have been updated,
agreed and publicly vetted. Environmental impact assessments, consistent with IDA
environmental assessment requirements, and operating plans exist for all operating and
proposed landfills;
f) At least eight annual "State of the Environment" reports, acceptable to IDA, have been
prepared by the participating local governments; and
g) An aggregate of at least 60,000 tons of quality, certified compost has been produced.
In order to proceed to APL2 at least 50% of participating local governments must have met the above
conditions. Any local government not meeting the above "triggers" would not be eligible to proceed to
APL2. Appraisal of APL2 will take place about 20 months into APL l.
APL2 - January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2007
Construction of new TPAs (landfills);
Conversion of vehicles to liquid petroleum gas;
Implementation of hospital waste management strategy (part 1);
Construction of industrial waste water treatment facilities;
Procurement of solid waste management equipment;
Assistance to small and medium-sized industries for pollution reduction;
Phase 2 development community environment facilities; and
Continued technical advisory support.
- 8 -



Requirements to proceed with APL3
a) Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation and Greater Bandung Waste Management
Corporation operating (operations funded by revenues);
b) Local governments' solid waste net revenues increased by 60% from tipping fees and private
waste hauler license fees;
c) Public Advisory Boards for all TPAs (funded by local governments) have continued their
advisory functions from APLI. Public discussions of landfill operations held at District
Councils (DPRD);
d) The annual "State of the Environment" reports continue to be published and publicly
discussed;
e) Any new community wishing to join the program must meet all conditions of APLI and APL2;
and
f) At least 300,000 tons of quality, certified compost produced during APL2.
APL3 - January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2010
APL3 would be similar to APL2 with an additional focus on proper management of facilities built in APL I
and APL2. APL3 would require greater cost recovery, private sector participation, and contribution by
local governments. Finally, APL3 would broaden the experiences gained under APL2 by opening the
participation to a greater number of local governments, provided they meet the conditions of APL2.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
APLI is largely focused on making managerial improvements, ensuring adequate planning and
community participation, and carrying out detailed engineering design of subsequent components,
particularly for landfills (TPAs), wastewater treatment and septage treatment facilities (IPLTs). As APLI
"sets the stage" for APL2 and APL3, efforts were made to minimize large civil works and equipment
procurement in order to maximize policy development and capacity building first. In addition to
broad-based policy reforms, e.g., annual community-vetted environmental reporting, public advisory
boards, regional waste disposal options, and compost support, some activities with tangible and immediate
environmental benefits are also included in APLI.
The GEF grant will support the development of viable compost production and marketing sytems.
The GEF component has two parts. First, GEF will provide some US$2,156,000 for a program to provide
grants to the producers of additional compost from municipal solid waste in the project area. This program
will be designed under one of the project's technical assistance packages and will be submitted for Bank
approval before proceeding. Once approved, the program will be administered by the Environmental
Management Agency (Bapedal). Second, GEF will provide about $380,000, to be used for independent
reviews of compost quality, production levels, and to assist in marketing. A total of $10 million has been
approved by GEF, to be disbursed in approximately equal parts in APLI, 2, and 3.
-9-



dcatie                *a6 jf G0F                  %of
Component               Sector        Coats      %Of    fineacki    B       fiank  g   GEF
_____________   (tUSM         .:To*,  Y5CXtal0 ) wssu:    (U :SM p  financing
1. Overall Urban           Urban               11.10        48.8    9.80       0.0     0.00      0.0
Environmental Management   Environment
2. Solid Waste Management   Pollution Control /  6.88       30.2    5.93       0.0     0.00      0.0
Waste Management
3. Community and Private   Other Environment     1.86        8.2    1.69       0.0     0.00      0.0
Sector Participation
4. Composting Support-GEF   Urban                2.79       12.3    0.00       0.0     2.54   100.0
Environment
Total Project Costs                    22.63       99.5   17.42        0.0     2.54   100.0
Front-end fee                      0.12        0.5    0.12        0.0              0.0
Total Financing Required                    22.75      100.0   17.54        0.0     2.54   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project are: (a) improved cost recovery and
prioritization for solid waste services, with a special focus on privatization of commercial services (local
public agencies to concentrate on residential solid waste collection, especially in poor areas, or contract
these services to private companies); (b) establishment of the Jabotabek and Greater Bandung Waste
Management Corporations; (c) strengthened compost marketing associations to increase composting and
better integration with the agricultural community (with GEF assistance); (d) establishment of provincial
and local environmental strategies; and (e) preparation of annual plans ("State of the Environment" reports)
for participating communities that highlight last year's achievements and next year's goals.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will generate the following benefits: (a) environmental benefits, through improved solid waste
collection and disposal; wastewater treatmnent; reduced waste discharges from industries; (b) health benefits
through reduced risk of exposure to illnesses caused by improper waste disposal; and (c) institutional
reforms, through increased efficiency in waste management and disposal, greater accountability at the local
level as a result of more active community participation and involvement of the private sector. Increased
production and agricultural application of compost will reduce the waste to be landfilled and increase soil
productivity and crop yields and by reducing use of other fertilizers. It will also reduce GHG emissions.
About 15% of the program's 30 million urban population, or 4.5 million, are poor and are often the most
affected by sub-standard municipal services. These are considered the key beneficiaries. In addition,
specific targeted efforts will be provided for about 350,000 people through programs for waste-pickers.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be carried out in accordance with the Project Management Manual, acceptable to
the Bank. Issuance by DGURD of the Project Management Manual is a condition of effectiveness.
The Manual will be written in Bahasa Indonesia and will include a description of procurement procedures
(including a letter on national competitive bidding procedures) and standard documentation, reporting
requirements, financial management procedures including audit procedures, the project's performance
indicators, and the environmental criteria applicable to project and subproject design.
- 10 -



Key implementation rests with the PLGs. Central govermment support will be provided mainly for
technical support, coordination and monitoring, plus assistance with legislative and policy changes. Since
the activities under this project transcend any single ministry, the Ministries of Finance, Home Affairs,
Environment, Industry, Settlements and Regional Infrastructure, and BAPPENAS (the National Planning
Development Agency) established a Project Coordination and Steering Committee to oversee project issues
at the central government level during project preparation. After project effectiveness, the role of this
Project Coordination and Steering Committee will change to that of a review committee and will be known
as the Project Coordination and Review Committee. The Project Coordination and Review Comrnmittee will
be responsible for: (a) reviewing and disseminating best practice and lessons learned among the PLGs; (b)
review of the semi-annual progress reports by the Central Program Support Unit (CPSU); and (c) review of
the PLGs' annual State of the Environment reports being prepared under the overall urban environment
management component (see Annex 2 for details). The members of the Project Coordination and Review
Committee will be selected as a condition of effectiveness.
The PLGs would be supported by the CPSU, which would represent DKI Jakarta, West Java
Province, Bapedal (National Environmental Impact Management Agency), and the Ministry of Settlements
and Regional Infrastructure (MSRI). (Banten Province will not be represented in the CPSU at project
start-up because it was established as a province only during appraisal, and its cadre was not identified. As
and when it achieves the capacity to operate at normal strength, its representation will be reviewed.)
Establishment of the CPSU, satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness. The CPSU will
support the Project Coordination and Review Committee's review each PLG's annual State of the
Environment Report. These reports would be compiled by the CPSU and made available to the public in
Bahasa Indonesia. The CPSU will implement the central government components and will provide
assistance to the provincial and local governments.
At the provincial level, each province will establish a Provincial Program Support Unit (PPSU),
satisfactory to the Bank, as a condition of effectiveness. The PPSU will be composed of members from
the provincial sector units and will report to the Govemor. Its role is to supervise the implementation of
provincial level components, and to coordinate between the CPSU and the LPSU.
At the local level, each PLG will pass a council resolution supporting its participation in the
project and agreeing to public consultation on environmental indicators and targets, and reporting
mechanisms for annual progress on these targets, as a condition of effectiveness. In addition, each
PLG must establish a Local Program Support Unit (LPSU), satisfactory to the Bank, as a condition of
effectiveness. The LPSU will be located in the local development planning agency (Bappeda-IF). It will be
headed by the chief administrative officer (sekwilda) and will report to the city chief executive (walikota) or
distict chief executive (bupati), who in tum report to the DPRD. The resolution serves as a statement of
the PLG's intention to participate in the project through to completion and to execute its responsibilities
under the implementation program in Annex 5 of the DCA, in accordance with the Project Management
Manual. PLG commitments include under the implementation program include the following:
(a) At least four PLGs will prepare an annual State of the Environment Report and furnish it to the CPSU
and the Bank not later than March 31, 2002, and the remaining local govemments will prepare and submit
annual State of the Environment Reports no later than March 31, 2003;
(b) The PLGs will have their annual State of the Environment Reports evaluated by an independent team,
acceptable to the Bank, not later than July 31 each year, starting in 2002;
- 11 -



(c) PLGs which do not have an Environment Forum that is part of an existing urban forum, should
establish an Environment Forum by July 31, 2002;
(d) All PLGs operate landfills will select at least one landfill and establish for that landfill, not later than
December 31, 2003, a neighborhood advisory committee to advise the PLG on the performnance of the
agency responsible for the landfill;
(e) GOI shall furnish to the Bank for approval a program to foster good quality compost production, and
will make sub-grants available in accordance with the agreed program;
(f) For PLGs with investment subprojects, the PLG will issue land acquisition and resettlement guidelines
acceptable to the Bank; and
(g) For PLGs with investment subprojects, the PLG will select and prepare subprojects using technical,
financial, economic, environmental and social criteria acceptable to the Bank.
Composting. The compost grants will be administered by Bapedal through a relatively simple program
whereby compost producers will be provided grants upon proof of production (submission of receipts
which are randomly audited). The project will support the establishment of a Compost Advisory Team
with roots in an already established association of compost specialists. This team will randomly test
compost quality and verify the independent audit reviews of compost use (e.g., field checks). They will also
assist with market development and disseminate the results. The nascent compost (and vermi-compost)
marketing association will be assisted, as will independent, local NGOs to provide community education
and verification of composting activities. It is planned that an international bi-annual composting trade fair
and conference will be held in Indonesia.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements:
The CPSU will be responsible for overall project monitoring based on reports from the PPSUs and
the LPSUs. The CPSU will monitor the status of contracts on a monthly basis. These results will be
summarized every six months and presented to the Project Coordination and Review Comrmiittee. Every
year, an "Environmental Update" will be prepared by the Review Committee. This document will be
composed of the "State of the Environment" reports prepared by all PLGs. The Environmental Update will
be discussed publicly, at an annual "environmental forum" (see section E, para. 5.4) to which the media,
community representatives, political leaders, and government staff will be invited. The discussions will
include a summary of how local environments are improving or deteriorating.
Project impact data will largely be collected by local secondary schools (which will be provided
with tools and specific guidance as part of the CPSU TA). Collection of this data will be integrated with
the Environmental Awareness and Environmental Education TAs. The project's Project Coordination and
Review Committee will disseminate lessons across PLGs. For centrally implemented components, the
Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development (DGURD) within MSRI, will be responsible for
monitoring project accounts (in addition to consolidating local government accounts). Bapedal will be
responsible for reviewing and monitoring progress of technical studies and GEF funds allocation.
Bank headquarters and resident office staff would jointly supervise project implementation twice a
year, with very intensive efforts in the first 18 months following effectiveness. The WJEMP will not have a
formal mid-term review due to the forty-month implementation schedule. However, to prepare for the
appraisal of APL2, it will be necessary to collect information on the results of the monitoring and
- 12 -



evaluation activities. GOI will prepare and furnish to the Bank by July 31, 2003, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities, and review the report with the Bank by September 30,
2003. GOI and the Bank will decide upon a course of action to remedy any problems needing correction.
Only PLGs which meet the "triggers" will be included in APL2.
Six months prior to the closing of the project, the CPSU would furnish an implementation
completion report to the Bank, reviewing project achievements against objectives, including costs incurred
and benefits derived, as well as the performance and contribution of all parties associated with project
execution.
Financial Management System:
A Financial Management System (FMS), satisfying the Bank's requirements under OP/BP 10.02
and the LACI (Loan Administration Change Initiative) standards, will be established under the project. The
project accounting system and procedures will follow the government's accounting system. The LPSUs will
be responsible for maintaining the accounting records (under the supervision of the CPSU) on a cash basis,
and for keeping all the supporting documents for annual audits. Consolidated project accounts will be
prepared by the CPSU for the annual audit, and the audit opinions shall be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the end of each FY.
Issuance of a Project Management Manual, acceptable to the Bank, and documenting the
FMS and procedures, is a condition of effectiveness. The manual will include control, accounting and
disbursement procedures, project management reporting (PMR), and auditing arrangements (detailed in
Annex 6).
A Special Account in the amount of US$ 1.75 million, will be in the custody of the Directorate
General of Budget, MOF, and will be held in Bank Indonesia. The Special Account for the GEF grant will
be US$250,000 and will also be managed by the same Directorate within MOF.
The Bank financial management specialist assessed the financial management system, including
disbursement, audit arrangements and human resources capacity at the national, provincial and district
levels and found that they met the Bank's requirements after implementation of the agreed action plan.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This project began as a solid waste improvement program following the recommendations of the Jabotabek
Environmental Management Strategy, carried out under the Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project
(Ln. 3246-IND; closed FY00). The study was expanded to include other key urban areas of West Java
(Bandung, Serang and Cirebon). All government parties were adamant that the project should include the
more difficult provision of "environmental management". Community consultations during the first phase
of project preparation reinforced the desire for a comprehensive response to urban environmental issues.
The task team agreed to this broader scope, provided that the majority of implementation would be carried
out by local governments, that the DPRD, Mayor/District Chief (Walikota/Bupati), his/her staff, and the
local community, would be both more empowered to respond to environmental issues, monitored fairly, and
held accountable for implementation results. It was agreed not to finance the number one environmental
priority, i.e., removal of lead from fuel, as this cannot be done at the local level. (Legislative controls are
- 13 -



being pursued to remove lead from fuel.)
Limiting the project to Jabotabek. This project's geographic scope was initially lirnited to Jabotabek.
However, during preparation, the benefits of broadening the project's geographic scope emerged. Firstly,
Jakarta's two neighboring provinces, West Java and the newly created Banten, have some of Indonesia's
worst environmental problems. Given the close environrmental links between Jabotabek and its neighbors,
significant, measurable improvements can be made only by tackling all three jurisdictions simultaneously.
Secondly, by including the two provinces, their overall willingness to implement tough policy reforms is
raised. Thirdly, the inclusion of these additional areas brought support to examine nationwide policies
such as including waste minimization measures and environmental awareness into school curriculums, and
it enabled a more senior Project Review and Steering Committee than would otherwise have been possible.
Fourthly, by expanding the scope, the project can potentially demonstrate both the complexities and
practical responses to making environmental improvements at the local level for the rest of the country.
Limiting the project to solid waste collection and disposal was deemed too narrow. The key issues in the
solid waste sector are not so much related to investment requirements, but rather management and policy
initiatives such as sharing disposal facilities, phasing out local government collection of waste from
businesses, and increasing revenue collection and transparency. Local governments are more likely to
undertake policy changes if the changes are incorporated into a larger strategy. Furthermore, improving
solid waste management practices alone would not have a significant impact on the urban environment;
waterways would still be polluted from sewage and air quality would still be poor from vehicle emissions.
Limiting Implementation to One Government Agency. The project could be executed by a sole central
government agency. T1his arrangement was deemed impractical because issues of urban environmental
management and pollution reduction must be tackled at the local level for maximum benefit. As Indonesia
is currently decentralizing, it was agreed that this project presented a golden opportunity to work with
newly empowered local governments. The provincial governments of DKI Jakarta and West Java and their
local agencies are among the most capable provincial governments in Indonesia. The provincial
governments are capable of performing oversight functions of local governments within their jurisdictions.
The Banten Province was established early in 2001 and has, therefore, no prior experince but the local
governments under the new province do have the experience.
Other Donor Participation. Many agencies are active in this sector, with some 60 donor-funded waste
management pilot projects underway in the project area. The Japan Bank for International Cooperation
(JBIC) is financing a large-scale transfer station in Jakarta; the Asian Development Bank (ADB) a study in
Bandung; a Swiss aid small-scale, pilot and long term program in Cirebon; and the German Gesellschaft
fur Technische Zusamrnmenarbeit (GTZ) in recycling activities. The management committees established in
each local government will be responsible for coordinating all these activities, and it was agreed that this
project would include a strong component to strengthen the local governments capacities in the sector.
Project as Specific Investment Loan (SIt). At the start of the project preparation, a SIL with a total
project cost of approximately US$300 million and a five-year implementation period was anticipated.
However, the APL was deemed more appropriate for several reasons: (a) Bank support to making
measurable and sustainable improvements in urban environment management will require a long-term
partnership with government. The APL's format is well suited for this purpose; (b) the APL enables
emphasis on development "software" requirements before "hardware" investments are made; (c) the APL
enables the Bank and GOI to assess progress and make design changes before proceeding with subsequent
phases; (d) decentralization is an important GOI objective, and the APL enables the Bank to engage the
participating local governments in urban environmental issues in a flexible manner over time; and (e) the
- 14 -



PLGs and MOF prefered the smaller loan sizes and commitment fees in this era of budget constraints.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
.______________ _   I(Bank-financed projects onlyl
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
-Improve provision of basic urban  Third JABOTABEK Urban             S             S
services, especially in low income  Development Project (JUDP3)
communities;
-Strengthened environmental protection
Municipal service provision       Various decentralized urban        S             S
projects (e.g. BUIP, EJBUDP,
KUDP, Second Sulawesi UDP,
Municipal Innovations)
U             S
Improved educational planning &   West Java Basic Education
mgmt; developed institutional and
interagency capacity at district and
provincial levels
S             S
Enhancement of farmers' capacity to   Decentralized Ag/Forestry
participate in extension to promote  Extension
environmentally sustainable farming
Other development agencies
ADB                                Bandung UDP
Botabek UDP
JBIC                              Jakarta Transfer Station
Swiss Government                   Cirebon Urban Assistance
USAID                              Private Sector Activities
GTZ                                Small-scale Composting                   j
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Similar projects such as JUDP3, provide important lessons: (a) working with DKI Jakarta is
considered difficult by the neighboring, less affluent and less powerful municipalities; (b) the Jabotabek
Environmental Strategy (funded under JUDP3) is technically very good, but based on an internal Bank
review, its implementation strategy had the least amount of stakeholder involvement and follow-through
compared to the other five Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Projects cities (Kuala Lumpur,
Manila, Bombay, Katmandu, Beijing). A clear lesson is that stakeholder involvement, local institutional
ownership and meaningful and sustained dialogue are criticalfor the long-term success of environmental
projects in Indonesia.
These findings were corroborated by OED's impact evaluation report entitled, "Enhancing the Quality of
- 15-



Life in Urban Indonesia: The Legacy of Kampung (Village) Improvement Program", (Report 14747-IND)
which found that targeted urban sector development can have a very positive impact on low income areas
and that the majority of residents experienced environmental improvement through neighborhood
programs. This came about largely when local governments acted asfacilitator; and a respectful
partnership was established between the local government and civil society. Project assistance to Bapedal
also highlights the need for the involvement of other stakeholders to enhance agency accountability and to
help sustain minimum requirements for operating funds. (This means moving away from a
"project-to-project" operating style).
Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Projects (IUIDP) have had considerable success in
improving municipal service delivery; however they are not appropriate for operations such as WJEMP
that involve technically complex investments, that span several administrative jurisdictions, and that require
a planning horizon over five years. Another lesson from the IMU)Ps is that the development effectiveness
of the investments depends critically on the existence of appropriate sub-sector policies. The ongoing Bali
Urban Infrastructure Project (Ln. 41 55-IND) is providing useful input on the establishment of regional
waste management corporations, and the process of government consultation has been incorporated.
A clear lesson has emerged from the ongoing Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project (Ln.
4105-IND). The objective of infrastructure development can be met more easily than the objective of
"improving urban management" through an investment project. This is mostly due to two broad issues: (a)
DGURD and the local government's prime focus is often on awarding contracts; and (b) longer term and
broader institutional changes need better municipal management, e.g., adequate pay based on measurable
outputs, connecting community wants with ability to pay, building partnerships that transcend single
departments or local governments. Although management improvements are more difficult to achieve and
measure than infrastructure development, improvements are possible and are already accruing to local
governments that show leadership. These skills and attitudes are transferable.
Six small scale composting facilities were previously established in Indonesia through World Bank grants.
They verified that composting is a practical waste management option and highlighted the needfor
larger scale marketing programs, and inclusion of avoided waste disposal collection and disposal costs
to ensure sustainability. Similarly, the Bank hosted an international workshop in 1998 to explore ways in
which urban waste could be integrated with agricultural needs (also see the report by Michael Sanio, Reuse
of Urban Waste for Agriculture: An Investment Program for Progressive Action, May 1998, Wasting
Waste Conference).
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
GOI has consistently emphasized environmental improvement as a development objective in
previous Repelitas (five-year plans) and investment projects. Indonesia is a recognized leader in developing
innovative environmental management programs, e.g., the Clean Rivers Program (PROKASIH), the
Presidential Clean City Award (Adipura), the multi-agency anti-air pollution program known as "Blue
Sky", and the industrial environmental pollution rating. The launch of WJEMP by central and local
governments indicates that implementation and day-to-day management will be given a greater focus in the
next decade.
GOI's increased concern about the deteriorating air quality and the impact of lead in vehicle
emissions led to the launching of a plan to phase out lead in fuels by 1999; however, the financial crises has
delayed this plan.
- 16 -



An important indication of commitment is the relatively lengthy preparation process that this
project underwent. Public workshops were held, advertisements were placed in newspapers, and a
thorough two-stage stakeholder consultation process was undertaken. However, once a firm conunitment
was given (i.e., political conditions improved) progress improved. Recent meetings, both with the public
and local government staff and leaders (including local councils) have been productive and refined the
project to mesh with recent developments. Project preparation has been seriously impacted by: (a) the
regional economic crisis; (b) a transfer of overall responsibility for the program from BAPPENAS to
DGURD, (c) three major reorganizations of DGURD in one and a half years, the latest in January 200 1;
and (d) staffing uncertainties in participating agencies. However throughout this period, GOI displayed a
consistent determination to continue with the project and provide tangible improvements to local urban
environments as soon as possible.
All levels of the government, and increasingly importantly, local communities, support composting.
Environmental groups consistently encourage the government to adequately incorporate composting into the
waste management system.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The Bank is well positioned to assist GOI in meeting the objectives of the proposed project. The
broad scope, and multi-jurisdictional nature of this project require a concerted and long term effort
involving investment finance, assistance in practical management methods, and complementary research
activities. Under the Bank-supported Bandung City Development Strategy (CDS) the city identified overall
environmental quality improvement as a priority. The project will benefit from the collaborative
involvements by the community, and various bilateral and multi-lateral agencies (e.g., World Bank, ADB,
JBIC, USAID and GTZ) under the city's coordination.
The Bank has considerable experience in urban environrental management in Indonesia, as well as
international experience, both of which will be required to maximize the impact of this project. The Bank
is also active at all three levels of government -- central, provincial and local -- and all are involved in the
project. The Bank's widespread presence in Indonesian urban areas will allow relatively rapid replication
of successful components.
The Bank is also able to provide an integrated approach to municipal management activities. For
example the project has two main subcomponents (environmental education and compost marketing)
incorporated within other existing Bank-financed projects such as the West Java Education Project (Ln.
4308-IND) and the Decentralized Agricultural/Forestry Extension Project (Ln. 45100, Cr. 3280-1ND),
which is training farmers in the appropriate use of fertilizers and compost. The Bank will assist GOI in
establishing international linkages between secondary schools for the design and monitoring of the project's
performance indicators to ensure that they are relevant.
Assistance from the GEF will help Indonesia establish itself an internationally reknown "center of
excellence" for composting application and research, in addition to large scale exploration on how best to
make composting an integral component of an overall municipal waste management strategy. The GEF
funds will make it possible to further reduce GHG emissions as well as to provide an incentive to establish
a better overall waste management system. GEF support is essential (a) to overcome the barriers to the
world's first large-scale GEF supported composting program, particularly its start-up costs and perceived
risks; and (b) to support independent scientific monitoring, evaluation, and dissemination to demonstrate
the system's global and local benefits and cost-effectiveness, and thus promote its replication. Contact has
been established with a successful compost marketing operation in India, and the project will explore this
- 17 -



operation during the first year. Each local government will keep account of their earned carbon credits for
the amount of compost produced. The Bank will during project implementation assist GOI to find markets
for these credits.
The Bank will endeavor to bring international experience into the project. One such example would
be the replication of a successful waste-picker assistance program in Brazil, where poor families are paid
scholarships (Bolsa Escola) to keep children in school; this should be readily transferable to Indonesia. The
transfer of this knowledge will go both ways, and Indonesia should be able to export some of its
composting acumen. The project will also facilitate the establishment of an international panel of
compost/waste management experts to provide assistance to Indonesia and help transfer technically sound
information.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = 20 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
Annex 4 provides a general economic analysis for the three-phase nine-year program. APLI
establishes policies through studies, prepares feasibility studies and detailed designs for infrastructure to
start implemention in APLI but more substantially in APL2, and increases devolution for the provision of
municipal environmental services to local governments. The studies and reviews are intended to provide
environmental management strategies to serve as a basis for future development to improve the efficiency
of overall service delivery and therefore have significant economic rates of return. Well designed policies
and improved management capacities should be able to increase service delivery efficiencies by at least
30%. Improvements start already in APLI where key studies will be awarded to consultants selected
through quality and cost-based assessments of competitive proposals unlike past practices where
consultants were generally engaged through nontransparent processes with poorly defined deliverables and
on time-based contracts.
As many as 4.5 million urban poor stand to benefit from the proposed nine-year program through
improvements to local environments. Although a single program cannot hope to alleviate all of western
Java's urban pollution, the proposed program will provide tangible benefits through: (a) improved solid
waste collection and disposal; (b) improved public health; (c) increased economic growth including
employment generation both within participating industries and local neighborhoods; (d) improved
municipal management; and (e) enhanced environmental awareness.
Improved solid waste management will reduce localized flooding, water and vector-borne ailments,
and respiratory problems associated with particulate air pollution. Enhanced private sector involvement in
solid waste management will increase overall efficiency and enable local governments to concentrate on
residential collection, especially in poorer neighborhoods. Programs to assist waste-pickers and collectors
will improve their health, economic opportunities and overall quality of life. Local and national economies
will be strengthened through assistance to participating small and medium-sized industries.
- 18 -



Wherever possible, costs and benefits will be quantified in monetary terms. Economic analyses
with cost-benefit reviews (on a with and without basis) will be conducted for all solid waste and
environmental management components in excess of US$100,000. The benefits associated with
environmental improvements are difficult to quantify due to factors such as improved quality of life and
reduced mortality. It may be necessary to carry out a least-cost analysis for some of these components.
The GEF incremental cost analysis shows a baseline case cost for treatment of 700,000 tons of
waste at $25/tonne (total cost $17.5 million - see Annex 4). The GEF alternative of composting, is
estimated at $27.5 million. GEF funds have been approved to offset the incremental cost of $10 million.
The average unit GHG abatement cost is $1.75/tonne of carbon equivalent. This is far below the $10/ton
upper GEF limit and highlights the potential replicability of this option as both a cost effective municipal
waste management option and global GHG emission reduction program.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
APLI 1 comprises policy, strategy development, institutional strengthening, preparation of detailed designs
for the start of physical implementation during the last years of APLI and more substantially in APL2.
Hence, a financial analysis is not applicable for APL 1. However, a financial analysis was carried out for
the program based upon data obtained from recently completed urban environmental projects.
The exact ratio of loan versus grant from central to local government for the remaining period of the
program is still uncertain; however, this will be resolved during APL 1, for which the financing issue has
already been decided. Funds for environmental education, innovations in solid waste management, and
project management will be provided through grants from the central government. For community
environmental facilities, participating local governments would receive grants and loans. The loans would
be made through subsidiary loan agreements, whose terms and conditions will be agreed with the
Bank during the second year of the project.
Cost Recovery: Inadequate levels of operation and maintenance funds for solid waste operations are the
most debilitating problems in the sector, and policy initiatives being promoted by this project will further
increase O&M requirements. However, current levels of solid waste collection and disposal practices are
in the local governments' views unacceptable. Through the introduction of the Jabotabek and Bandung
Waste Management Corporations, improved and more efficient waste disposal is anticipated. The
increased costs for the improved disposal will be largely bome by tipping fees, which will mainly come
from commercial establishments. Detailed operational and cost recovery policies will be finalized in APLI
for application in APL2 and 3. Cost recovery analyses will be completed for all components over
US$100,000 except for environmental education.
Fiscal Impact:
Indonesian local governments are facing financial uncertainty as new decentralization laws have
been passed, but their impact and execution remain unclear. APL 1 will continue to use the well established
system of subsidiary loan agreements for transferring funds from the central government to the local
govenmments for civil works. During the course of APLI, local governments will have time to see how the
new fiscal decentralization laws -- and their accompanying financial impact -- unfold. The environmental
awareness campaign will inform the public about the importance of good environmental management and
waste disposal practices, and will help the public appreciate why tariff increases are necessary for good
urban service delivery.
- 19 -



Flow of Funds: The normal funding channels for local government finance will be followed. No additional
channels or agency changes will be involved. The Bank will support simplification of the procedures and
will not participate in the clearing of disbursements of funds to and at the local government level.
3. Technical:
During appraisal all the proposed sub-projects were reviewed. All except the consultancy to assess the
compost market and identify a compost grant "window", are well tried technical studies for which the
technical solutions and experience are well documented. Most local government units have prior
experience with these types of consultancies. With the increased local ownership and local government
responsibility, and with close support from the CPSU, no particular problems with the implementation of
the consultancies are anticipated. The compost market assessment consultancy will require particular
attention and supervision by both CPSU, Bappedal, and the Bank.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project is being implemented during the transition from the fonner centralized administration
to the new decentralized administration where local governments will be taldng over the technical and
financial responsibilities for the development of their area ofjurisdictions. GOI has agreed that the project
should be implemented under "the old system" which means that MSRI will serve as the executing agency.
4.2 Project management:
In recognition of the transitional nature, MSRI has agreed to establish a CPSU as a support unit
rather than as an executing organization and the former steering committee as a Project Coordination and
Review Committee. In addition, the project will be guided at the provincial and local levels with Provincial
Program Support Units reporting to the Governor and Local Program Support Units for PLGs reporting to
the relevant bupati or walikota. The Bank has reviewed the implementing institutions' skills and capacities
and has made specific recommendations regarding the training to be provided. These support units will
have the capacity to implement the project successfully with training and regular updating of skills and
repetition of courses for new staff.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement capacity assessment concluded that with the training recommended in the
assessment report, the implementing units would be able to handle the procurements under project. The
assessment report is in the project file.
4.4 Financial management issues:
An assessment of the detailed financial management system prepared by DGURD was found
satisfactory to the Bank. The assessment report is in the project file.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
As part of program preparation over 500 interviews were carried out with a wide range of
stakeholders, i.e., all levels of government, NGOs, community groups, the private sector, universities, and
development institutions. Public workshops were held and advertisements explaining the environmental
objectives were placed in local newspapers. A two-stage preparation process was used. First, existing
- 20 -



information was reviewed and key urban environment needs, specific to each commnunity, were identified.
After stage I was agreed-to by the program Steering Committee, more detailed preparation activities took
place. Unique preliminary environmental management strategies for each participating community were
prepared, as was an overall policy matrix for improved environmental management.
Both project preparation reviews and previous country experience confirm that, with respect to the
urban environment services being targeted by the program, e.g., solid waste management and air and water
pollution, the most important requirement is improving the management of service delivery. Therefore a
three-phase adaptable program loan was proposed where APLl would focus heavily on required policy
development and management improvements. Making these improvements would be a pre-requisite
(trigger) for construction of any facilities in APL2. Therefore a broader "Programmatic Environmental
Review" (PER) was prepared during project preparation, rather than a specific environmental assessment
for sub-projects.
The PER identified potential environmental impacts in the program, most of which occur in APL2
and APL3, from landfills, hospital waste facilities, compost operations, and waste water treatment
facilities.
During negotiations, however, nine subprojects originally included in APL2 were brought forward for
execution in APLl. Environmental assessments, land acquisition and resettlement action plans, consistent
with both GOI and World Bank requirements, will be followed for each subprojects in the entire program,
to ensure that the landfills are safe and that they have adequate operational guidelines. Along with
preparing the required EAs, APLI will assist local govemments in preparing credible landfill operating
plans, and more importantly will provide mechanisms to ensure that the guidelines are followed and that the
community will help monitor their progress.
Potential environmental impacts from compost facilities and the quality of compost need to be
carefully monitored. The project also proposes to address medical waste collection and disposal (to be
further refined in APL I with establishment of the necessary implementation framework and policies).
Current practices are woefully inadequate, and Bank-supported activities will meet all environmental
safeguards. A thorough EA and EMP will also be completed for any medical waste facility or wastewater
treatment plant.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Each facility that is identified by the screening process as having potential environmental impacts
will require a customized EMP which complies with technical management standards for the type of
facility. The EMPs will include community consultations (with advisory boards), establishment of adequate
operating budgets and staff capacity, and defined processes for affected stakeholders to raise concerns.
Each facility will also require an environmental monitoring and management program, consistent with an
Environmental Impact Assessment with relevant environmental indicators, such as the number of fires,
leachate generation, and odors for landfills.
The activities being undertaken through this project are typical of local government responsibilities.
Subproject preparation and implementation minimize "artificiality" and will make the processes of
environmental assessment and management planning a regular feature in all participating local
governments. The environmental safeguard activities undertaken should be the same for Bank-financed and
non-financed works and services. The extensive community consultation component is designed to
encourage this.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
-21 -



Date of receipt of final draft: April 28, 2000
A PER and model EMP were prepared as part of preparation for APLl. Each facility with
potential environmental impacts will require a specific Environmental Assessment with an EMP acceptable
to both the GOI and the Bank. They will be publicly discussed through the local-DPRDs and will be
finalized 16 months prior to APL2 for those activities to be financed in APL2 and 16 months prior to APL3
for activities in APL3.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
In preparation of the program many stakeholders were consulted, but no specific facilities requiring
an EA or EMP were included for the first or second years of APLI implementation. APLI is largely
providing the time, financing, and political commitment necessary to prepare good EAs and EMPs.
Instituting the public consultation needed for these activities is a key component of APLI. All PLGs which
do not have an Environment Forum that is part of an existing urban forum, are required to establish an
Environment Forum by July 31, 2002, as well as mechanisms for this group to report directly to DPRDs
and political leaders. An annual environmental report (with public a consultation program including
workshops, media advertising, school programs) will be produced by each PLG, as a requirement to move
forward to APL2. Any PLG planning a specific facility late in APLI will be required to follow the public
consultation processes being promoted under the project.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Each subproject will be evaluated on its contribution to environmental improvement. There are,
however, components in late APL1 and in APL2 and APL3 that can potentially have a negative short-tern
impact on the environment. They will each require a customized EMP and monitoring program. APL I will
identify these facilities and prepare acceptable EMPs and monitoring regimes prior to construction. They
will also need to be placed within a publicly agreed policy framework and properly financed (particularly
operating costs). The screening process for these facilities is outlined in the PER.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Traditionally slums are not well served by municipal crews because waste collection from
businesses is more lucrative. Poor solid waste collection practices in slums cause the urban environment to
deteriorate. Women and children who spend most of their time in slum areas bear the brunt of poor urban
environments in terms of increased incidence of health problems and lost economic opportunities. Hence,
the program's focus on improving solid waste collection from neighborhoods will ameliorate the
environment, reduce health risks to urban poor and ultimately open the door to greater economic
opportunity. The project's environmental education activities will be targeted to school children and may
include relevant activities away from school. A recent Bank survey of the poor found that women placed
environmental degradation as their second highest priority, while men placed it eighth. This difference
would be incorporated into project implementation by targeting environmental awareness campaigns more
toward women.
The community participation in the project, and particularly in the Community Environmental
Facility (CEF) planned under the third component, is vital. Local govemrnent ability to work with
community members is still a concem as local govemments often prefer to work through known
- 22 -



intermediaries instead. Working with the waste-picking community will require sensitivity and sustained
contact from local government staff. Project officers may at times find themselves mediating between
waste-pickers and local government waste management staff. Key to this component will be its ability to
enhance mutual respect.
Compost activities have been promoted by community groups and environmental NGOs. These
individuals need to be kept involved in the composting activities to both help with community education
activities and market development, and provide input to compost producers on any potential concerns
neighboring residents or compost users may have.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
This project will be participatory throughout all stages of subproject preparation and
implementation. Many groups were contacted for their input into project design. Further and sustained
discussions will be required for the waste-picker assistance program and for the CEF. Public workshops
were held in all participating communities and these will continue to serve as an integral part of project
implementation. Another key area will be the work with individual schools, as they will monitor key project
performance indicators.
The agricultural community is a key stakeholder for the widespread use of compost, as is the
private sector (potential compost producers and users), community-based organizations and environmental
NGOs who have been, and will continue to be involved in the production and marketing of compost.
Increased overall participation is structured within the newly evolving local government role. For
example, much of the participation will be through the recently empowered DPRDs. The project not only
intends to identify and strengthen the mechanics of greater community participation at the local government
level generally and not just for environmental activities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Independent commnunity groups will review each city's annual "State of the Environment" report
and provide inputs. In order to reduce public concems over landfills and to increase the emphasis on
management, PLGs which operate landfills are required to establish a "neighborhood advisory
committee" no later than December 31, 2003, in order to advise the PLG on the performance of the
agency responsible for the landfill.
The CEF will have special features which will be available to groups of households and NGOs.
The detailed institutional arrangement for administering the Fund will be prepared during APL1.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project is structured to fit within and strengthen local government policies and capacities. The
onus of implementation for the majority of the project rests with the chief executive of the municipality or
district (Walikota/Bupati) and his/her elected council. Independent verification is available both through
the technical strengths of the Provinces of DKI Jakarta and West Java (and eventually Banten) and Central
Government agencies.
A key Bank priority is improving governance in Indonesia; this project is designed to improve the
service delivery capabilities of PLGs. Environmental services are usually the first priority of a
well-functioning local government, and generally these services are easier for local residents to understand
- 23 -



and see improvements when they occur. The improvements being sought from local governments are
consistent with other sectors such as improving contracting practices, community consultation, and service
planning.
A pre-requisite for a well-functioning local government is merging institutional arrangements with
social development and building mutual trust. "Social development", which needs to occur in parallel with
strengthening the local government, would occur in three phases: community awareness, community
participation, and community monitoring as elaborated upon below.
Community awareness will include training programs for government staff and key community
representatives (e.g., the local media), a regional Environmental Awareness Campaign, and a school-based
program. Annual State of the Environment reports would be prepared and made available to the public.
These reports would contain information on contract awards, attainment of performance targets, and
general baseline environmental conditions.
Community participation will occur through such activities as landfill site selection and advisory
boards and comments from community representatives will be sought through the urban forums. The CEF,
which starts in APLI, is designed to be managed by and for the community (in APL2 and 3). Community
monitoring will be carried out via the annual reporting process, landfill advisory boards (neighboring
residents will be asked to monitor adherence to agreed-to operating plans), periodic reporting in the media,
and international peer reviews of composting activities. A key monitoring task will be the review of
procurement activities.
Community participation and monitoring will be integrated into ongoing local government
functions through workshops, public reports, and public council meetings. The public's institutional role is
to increase government accountability and provide assistance to local governments in service provision. The
PER lays out possible mechanisms for public involvement in the provision of local environmental services,
however these are neither exhaustive nor prescriptive. Much community consultation already occurs in
Indonesia. The project will promote local government openness toward community consultation and as the
same time will better define institutional mechanisms for consultation and participation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in tertns of social development outcomes?
Each year a publicly vetted "State of the Environment" Report will be prepared by each PLG.
These will be accompanied by public meetings and media presentations. The social development outcomes
will be stated annually and their level of attainment reported publicly. As is already practiced, reports will
be compiled and reviewed annually by the provinces of DKI Jakarta, West Java and eventually Banten and
the central government agencies. Independent NGOs and Bank supervision missions will verify reported
progress.
- 24 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apI to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A PER was undertaken as part of APL I preparation (see Section E5). Following negotiations, a
total of nine civil works subprojects were shifted forward from APL2 to APLI. Of these nine, it is
possible that some of them would require a specific environmental assessment and mitigation plan, land
acquisition and/or resettlement. However until the feasibility studies and detailed engineering designs are
completed, it is too early to identify precisely which requirements would be followed for which investments.
The Bank would not disburse for these subprojects unless all applicable safeguard policies had been strictly
followed.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of solid waste management improvements depends on the ability to increase the funds
available for operations. This will be accomplished through greater cost recovery for waste collection,
particularly through licensing arrangements with the private sector for collection of business waste,
improved collection of tariffs and tipping fees, successful development and operation of the Jabotabek and
Bandung Waste Disposal Corporations, and greater transparency of service delivery and associated
charges.
Sustainability in management improvement depends largely on the leadership and professionalism
shown by local government representatives, as well as commensurate improvements to working
environments, especially salaries. Another important management area is improved relations between the
three levels of government -- central, provincial, and local. During project implementation, especially
APLl, all levels of government will be refining their roles, resource allocations, and staff salaries and
accountabilities. Sustainability needs to be predicated on a transparent and reliable government structure.
Sustainability is also conditional on local governments assuming, and being empowered to assume,
responsibility for activities such as waste disposal as formulated in Law 22/99.
There are no significant technical issues, though care is needed to ensure adequate training and
operating budgets and thorough review of medical waste and composting proposals. Another important
role of the GEF funds is to encourage composting on a scale that enables Indonesia to claim to be a world
leader in composting.
- 25 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
fD  t:ft;Xk tV|     RRis,I  Orai4            :  RiglkMitigation Meaa MO
From Outputs to Objective
Sector CAS Goals
(from Goal to Bank Mission.)
Political support; financing plans can be  H         Maintain the high level of local govermnent
agreed.                                               ownership. Relate the success or otherwise to
the performance on the CAS Base Case
performance by GOI.
Willingness by community to spend time      M         Maintain the high level of local government
and money on waste management.                        ownership.
Willingness by agencies to                  M         Increase program's local profile.
"commnercialize."
Program Purpose
(a) TA or incentives effective              M         (a) Bank supervision to be pro-active and
(b) Financial support available                       "profesionally heavy" in the first year.
(c) A single project can have impact                  (b) Proactive budget planning.
(c) Success breeds success. Supervise
rigorously from day one to achieve success.
Local governments effectively prepare &     M         Supervision to focus on reporting during first 12
maintain reports.                                     months.
GEF Operational Program
Compost output and cost; monitoring         M         Several groups responsible for monitoring from
program effective.                                    different perspectives: technical advisory group,
financial intermediary and CPSU.
Project Development Objectives
- 26 -



Possible to overcome current incentives     S         The GEF grants overcome the initial difficulties.
where pricing is difficult issue in a sector          Gradual phasing out of the grant over 9 years
with negative externalities.                          would enable the market to stabilize.
Increasing public support possible.                   Awareness campaigns through several media,
Support from private sector parties                   schools and fiu-ther accentuation of environment
affected.                                             issues in teacher's training.
PLGs able to institute revenue collection             Awareness campaigns and the fiscal realities
and increase charges.                                 during the project period will focus local
governments on cost and sustainability. (Risk:
drop the environmental agenda entirely, by local
governments.
Web-site can be maintained and expanded     M         The involvement of schools in monitoring.
From Components to Outputs
Global Environment Objective:               M         Small producers are keen and will cooperate,
Compost production and use can be                     especially with the possibility of GEF grants.
accurately recorded and monitored at                  The financial intermediary has a vested interest
many small production sites.                          in maturing the market for compost.
Project components/sub-components
Overall Urban Mgmt.
Environmental Awareness:
Disparate activities within participating   M         Program and project management being
communities can be woven into an                      devolved to local governments.
effective response to urban pollution.
Local governments assume key                          Complimentary community enviromnental
responsibility for urban pollution                    awareness programs planned for all stages and
reduction efforts.                                    locations.
Composting Program: Composting can          S         GEF assistance will provide incentive to
compete with other waste management                   overcome inertia in launching larger scale
altematives and external environmental                efforts. Changing approach from waste disposal
benefits can be included in overall                   to production of agrochemical. Thorough
sustainability review (e.g. against                  review of technical merits of composting
fertilizer subsidies).                                completed.
Program Mgmt. Capacity: Staff               M        . Governments given clearly defined
capabilities and pride can be improved                responsibilites and performance measurements.
through targeted training.                            Project Support Unit to be staffed by competent
Quality assistance can be provided and                and committed staff.
measured.
- 27 -



(a) Individual programs maintain Pemda      M         (a) Continue the close dialogue.
and community ownership.                              (b) Part of the MOUs. Close supervison by
(b) Environment management reports                    CPSU. Participation of educational institutions.
prepared, sustained and adopted                       (c) Cooperation-from children on to parents.
elsewhere.
(c) Government wants to borrow for
in-school education programs.
(d) Support for environmental reporting
maintained, sufficient community
consultation, and quality documents
prepared (through a credible process).
Community & Private Sector                  M         Pilot activities in APL 1 chosen in areas with
Participation, Industrial Waste Water                 high support and are relatively modest.
Reduction: Local governments able to                  Larger scale activities in APL2 and APL3
work with industry; sufficient                        would not proceed without documented
commitment to finance and legislate                   financing and management agreements.
pollution reductions.
(a) Pilot activities can be well targeted   M         Public education campaign to be run by
and yield important results.                          professional and experienced firm. Teacher
(b) GEF activities can be designed to both            training to be integrated with the W. Java Basic
benefit local environments and mesh with              Education Project.
other similar poverty relief activities.              Full appraisal of GEF and environmental mgmt.
(c) Industries capable to implement, and              and education activities prior to inclusion in
interested in, pollution reduction programs           APL2.
(with improved profitability).                        Existing "Urban Forums" and newly empowered
(d) Attainment of consensus possible;                 DPRDs used to promote input and dissemination
industries and government willing to                  of annual "State of the Environment" reports.
finance these activities.                             Responsibility for all activities within a local
(e) A credible cost -sharing and                      government rests with Walikota/Bupati and
management program can be developed.                  Sekwilda. Annual plans to be produced by each
city.
All local governments to publicly discusss and
agree to participation in the project through
DPRD resolution.
Program would only proceed if cost sharing
arrangements, technical issues, and finance
aspects resolved in APL 1. Involvement of
industry associations, independent banking
reviews, pollution targets set for each
participant.
- 28 -



Solid Waste Management, Municipal             H         (a and b) Agreement from govermments is part
capacity for solid waste management:                    of loan effectiveness and support for the policy
(a) sufficient political commitment and                 has been obtained from central and provincial
professional capacity to maintain the                   agencies. Private waste haulers are expected to
Corporation                                             pay licensing fees.
(b) sufficient cooperation between local                (c) Program would not go ahead if this
governments, community groups, and                      agreement is not in place--requires full
DPRDs                                                   appraisal.
(c) agreement by stakeholders to finance                (d) Prior to any construction, each new, and
recommendations--technically appropriate                expanded landfill will require an agreed
(d) sufficient attention paid to                        operating plan (with budget allocations and
management and finance aspects of                       names of responsible staf). Local communities
landfills                                               will be involved in siting and monitoring
(e) sufficient desire to help this                      operations.
group--and that they wanted to be helped.               (e) APL 1 activities are relatively modest (pilot
activities) and project focus is with local
government agencies (a group that has
traditionally not been involved in waste-pickers
assistance programs). GEF assistance as well.
(f) adequate operating budget and             S         Adequate budgets and on-the-ground results
competency of key staff;                                condition a move from APL 1 to APL2 and
(g) sufficient cooperation between local                APL3. Corporation given more autonomy for
governments, community groups, and                      staff recruitment and salary provision.
DPRDs;                                                  Partnering Corporation with a similar agency in
(h) agreement by stakeholders to finance                Australia (or elsewhere). Corporation held
recommendations--technically                            accountable for performance.
appropriate;                                            Programs would only go ahead if financing and
(i) adequate budgets and staff allocated to             management agreements in place.
landfill management;                                    Bank organizes procurement training for all
(j) there is sufficient desire and capacity             levels of government and support from
by local governments and communities to                 international consultants for procurement
enter into large scale composting                       processing.
programs;
(k) conditions developed and sustained to
enable qualified staff to act more
professionally and efficiently.
Overall Risk Rating                           s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Indonesia's recently empowered civil society took an active part in project preparation and will continue to
do so in implementation. Of the ten NGOs invited to a preparation meeting in April 2000, eight boycotted
the meeting over concem with Indonesia taking on any new external debt.
Landfills, to be constructed in APLI and particularly APL2, are a controversial issue. Jakarta ia already
experiencing public opposition to existing landfills. Similarly, medical waste disposal facilities, which may
- 29 -



be financed in APL2, could be contentious. Activities with waste-pickers should not generate controversy
though this has traditionally been a sensitive issue in Indonesia.
G. Main Credit, Loan and Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1. Execution of the GEF grant.
2. Each participating local government has passed council resolutions (perdas) supporting its
participation in the project and agreeing to public consultation on environmental indicators and
targets, and reporting mechanisms for annual progress on these targets. (Those which do not pass
such resolutions are excluded from APL1.)
3. Each participating local government has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with
MSRI, acceptable to the Bank, and covering the period until project completion.
4. GOI has established (a) a CPSU (central government), including representatives from the
Provinces of DKI Jakarta, West Java, Bapedal, and DGURD; and (b) Provincial Program Support
Units; and (c) Local Program Support Units with competent staff in adequate numbers.
5. GOI has selected the members of the Project Coordination and Review Committee.
6. Project Management Manual, which would include the supplemental letter on NCB, acceptable to
the Bank, shall be issued.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. At least four participating local governments will prepare an annual State of the Environment
Report and furnish it to the CPSU and the Bank not later than March 31, 2002, and the remaining
local governments will prepare and furnish annual State of the Environment Reports no later than
March 31, 2003. (Type: implementation, monitoring and evaluation)
2. The annual State of the Environment Reports will be evaluated by an independent team, acceptable
to the Bank, not later than July 31 each year, starting in 2002. (Type: implementation, monitoring,
review and reporting)
3. Participating local governments which do not have an Environment Forum that is part of an
existing urban forum, should establish an Environment Forum by July 31, 2002. (Type:
implementation, monitoring, review and reporting)
4. All participating local governments which operate landfills will select at least one landfill and
establish for that landfill, not later than December 31, 2003, a neighborhood advisory committee to
advise the participating local government on the performance of the agency responsible for the
landfill. (Type: implementation, monitoring, review and reporting)
5. GOI shall furnish to the Bank for approval a program to foster good quality compost production,
and will make sub-grants available in accordance with the agreed program (Type: implementation,
flow of project funds)
6. The participating local governments will issue land acquisition and resettlement guidelines
acceptable to the Bank (Type: involuntary resettlement)
7. The participating local governments will select and prepare subprojects using technical, financial,
economic, environmental and social critera acceptable to the Bank. (Types: implementation;
environmental, involuntary resettlement)
8. GOI will furnish to the Bank for approval the terms and conditions of any subsidiary loans (Type:
flow of project funds)
9. GOI will prepare and furnish to the Bank by July 31, 2003 a reporting integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities, and review the report with the Bank by September 30, 2003.
(Type: Implementation, monitoring, review and reporting)
- 30 -



10. GOI will maintain a financial management system, prepare statements in a formn acceptable to the
Bank, have the records and statements audited, and submit the audits to the Bank no later than six
months following the end of the year. (Type: accounting and auditing)
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
i. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
GIi   / t                      tL.A   )A          '                             . , 
Finn Nielsen                       Keshv                            L  Mark Baird  a
Team Leader                          ector Director                'V  Country Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDONESIA: Western Java Environmental Management Project
Key Pd0 formance
0Hier#hy of Obetives           lico*rs            Monitoingq & Evaluation    Critcal 4M swp       i;
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Prevent Environmental    Solid waste, health, air  Central Program Support   Political support; financing
Degradation              pollution data; details below Unit (CPSU)         plans can be agreed
National statistics, schools
collected data
Well functioning         Service delivery standards  Annual "State of the  Willingness by community
infrastructure services                           Environment Report" by    to spend time and money on
providing adequate services                       each PLG                 this;
in response to the demands
from all strata of the urban
community
Efficient partnership for    Degree of private sector    Number of service contracts Willingness by agencies to
public - private -       involvement and public                            "icommercialize"
government provision of    consultation
infrastructure services
Program Purpose:         End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:       (from Purpose to Goal)
Arrest environmental     Trend analysis with baseline CPSU                 TA or incentives effective
degradation trend in     of: solid waste, health, air  Independent monitoring  Financial support available
targeted West Java and   pollution, Greenhouse gas  World Bank supervision
Jakarta urban areas      emissions (i.e. compost    Intermninisterial /local  A single project can have
production).             agency taskforces        impact.
Increase service delivery    Residential customer  Annual State of the     Local governments
capacity                 satisfaction with waste  Enviromnent Reports      effectively prepare &
collection increased from                         maintain reports
50% to at least 75%.
GEF Operational Program:
Demonstrated GHG         Cost-effectiveness of GHG  Independent verification of  Compost output and cost;
reduction through        mitigation (not to exceed    quantities and cost of waste monitoring program
sustainable composting   GEF maximum of US$       composted and diverted   effective.
operations               20/tonne)                from landfills.
Cost comparison between
composting and landfilling.
- 32 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development      Outcome / Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:              Indicators:
Establish the institutional   Policies developed  Feasibility studies,     Possible to overcome
framework for            (Jabotabek and Bandung    detailed designs and    current incentives where
implementation of APL2    Waste Management Master operating/management     pricing is a difficult issue in
and APL3                 Plans, hospital waste    plans                    a sector with negative
program, Compost Grant   Industry workshops       externalities.
Local governments have    allocation program      Annual local environmental Increasing public support
reached the trigger points  finalized)            reports                  possible.
for inclusion in the     Jabotabek Waste          New regulations          Support from private sector
appraisal of APL2        Management Corporation   Annual budget            parties affected.
established              Master plan/reports,     Local govts. able to institute
Environmental Awareness  Council response.        revenue collection and
program established in at                         increases in charges.
least 80% of participating
communities.
Community advisory groups
established
Successful appraisal of
APL2
A minimum of at least one  Data regularly inputed into  Web-site can be maintained
school in each participating web-site             and expanded
community regularly
collecting baseline data.
Global Environment
Objective:
Triggers points for      60,000 tonnes of organic   Independent verification of  Compost production and
appraisal of APL2 reached  waste composted and thus  compost production and    use can be accurately
diverted from landfills  use.                     recorded and monitored at
many small production
sites.
First Bi-annual          List of participants     Dissemination of report on
International Conference                          the conference.
and Trade Fair on Organic
Waste Treatment and
Marketing
- 33 -



Key Perfohirmane
Hierarchy of Obj9ctives       |niatr             Monitoing &fi:EsalSuationtl   Critical AssumpEtiosil
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Municipal capacity for solid (a) JWMC established  (a) Articles of       (a) sufficient political
waste management        (b) GBWMC established   incorporation; biannual    commitment and
(c) Agreed-to regional  project reports          professional capacity to
Agreements on policies,    Waste Management Master (b) Master Plans by   maintain the Corporation
institutional arrangements  Plans                appraisal of APL2        (b) sufficient cooperation
and bidding doccuments for (d) Agreed-to hospital waste (c) Master Plan, with policy between local governments,
components to be        program                  and finance agreements    community groups, and
implemented during APL2  (e) improved revenue   (d) bi-annual reports and    DPRDs
collection              final bid packages       (c) agreement by
Operational Public      (f) program in place to  (e) bi-annual reports   stakeholders to finance
Advisory Boards for     assist and include waste                         recommendations -
Landfills               pickers in local waste                           technically appropriate
management activities                            (d) sufficient attention paid
Enhanced professionalism   (g) Number of staff trained                   to management and finance
in participating local  in each local government                         aspects of landfills
government units        unit in relevant diciplines.                     (e) sufficient desire to help
(a,b,c,e in place within 24                      this group - and that they
months of APLl                                   want to be helped.
effectiveness)
Composting Program being 60,000 tons of compost    Monthly statements    Composting can compete
implemented             produced and US$ 3 mill.,  compiled quarterly by  with other waste
equivalent, disbursed as    CPSU. Independent    management altematives
grants                  confirmation (reports)   and external environmental
benefits can be included in
overall sustainability review
(e.g. against fertilizer
subsidies).
Increased Environmental   Ten schools monitoring  Monthly reports by schools Disparate activities within
Awareness by local officials environmental data for the  compiled quarterly by  participating communities
and community           Project                  CPSU                    can be woven into an
effective response to urban
pollution.
Local governments assume
key responsibility for urban
pollution reduction efforts.
Program developed for   Bidding documents       Individual reports on each   Local governments able to
Industrial Waste Water    prepared for physical  activity - compiled and  work with industry;
Pollution Reduction     implementation under APL2 reviewed by CPSU       sufficient commitment to
for first year          Program presented, with   finance and legislate
required documentation, to  pollution reductions.
World Bank for APL2 and
APL3 appraisal before
MTR
- 34 -



Program management     CPSU fully staffed (100%) Monitored by PLG (through Staffcapabilities and pride
capacity in place and staff  with the appropriate skills  monthly reports), compiled  can be improved through
training program conducted mix.                and verified by CPSU    targeted training.
Training program       (quarterly reports)     Quality assistance can be
completed (numbers to be                       provided and measured.
provided at appraisal)
Project Components /   Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:    (from Components to
Sub-components:        component)                                      Outputs)
Overall Environmental                          (a) Project reports and  (a) Individual programs
Management (Urban)                             community consultation    maintain Pemda and
(a) strategy and policy                        documents. Individual    comnunity ownership.
development                                    reports prepared by PLG    (b) Environment
(b) capacity building                          and reviewed by         Management reports
(c) environmental education                    independent NGOs on each  prepared, sustained and
(d) program support                            pilot activity.         adopted elsewhere.
(e) prepare local and                          Project reports and separate (c) Government wants to
regional environmental                         training docurnents prepared borrow for in-school
management strategies, e.g.                    by participants and CPSU   education programs.
Westem Java Environment                         (a) Project documentation  (d) Support for
Strategy                                       reflecting that program  environmental reporting
(f) Finalize in-school                         agreed to by every       maintained, sufficient
program for APL2 and                           stakeholder and appraised  community consultation,
APL3.                                          by Bank.                 and quality documents
(g) Run public awareness                       (c) Annual preparation of  prepared (through a credible
campaign                                        "State of the Environment"  process).
reports and independent
verification by NGOs.
- 35 -



Solid Waste Management                           (a) Invoices for compost   (a) adequate operating
(a) compost grant program                         sales and compost credit   budget and competency of
(b) technical assistance                          distribution. Random     key staff
(c) Greater Bandung &                             audits.                   (b) sufficient cooperation
Jabotabek Waste                                   (b) Advisory Board       between local governments,
Management Corporations                           minutes.                 community groups, and
(d) waste management                             (c) reports (and minutes of  DPRDs
master plans and                                  meetings) prepared by the   (c) agreement by
community advisory boards                         JWMC, government         stakeholders to finance
(e) hospital waste program                        agencies, and supervision   recommendations -
(f) engineering design and                        reports by Bank missions   technically appropriate
bid packages                                      (d) agreed to policies, cost  (d) adequate budgets and
(g) waste picker assistance                       sharing arrangements, and  staff allocated to landfill
(h) Public Advisory Boards                        facilities design        management
for landfills                                    (e) bid packages, AMDALs (e) there is sufficient desire
and Bank EAs             and capacity by local
(f) CPSU and Bank        governments and
supervision reports      community to enter into
large scale composting
programs.
(f) conditions developed and
sustained to enable qualified
staff to act in a more
professional and efficient
manner.
Community and Private                             (a) CEF APL2 and APL3   (a) Pilot activities can be
Sector Participation                              Program agreed to by     well targeted and yield
(a) community assistance,                         participating stakeholders  important results.
e.g. finalize program for                         and appraised by Bank.    (b) CEF activities can be
APL2 and APL3                                     (b) Project documents    designed to both benefit
(b) SME assistance                                produced by CPSU,        local environments and
(c) pilot activities and                         individually assisted     mesh with other similar
industry assistance                               enterprises, business    poverty relief activities.
(d) Finalize industry                            leaders, and trade        (c) Industries capable to
assistance program for                            associations reflecting  implement, and interested
APL2 and APL3                                     workshop results and     in, pollution reduction
(e) JIEP waste water                              industry performance     programs (with improved
program                                           ratings.                 profitability).
(c) Final report reflecting   (d) Attainment of consensus
policy agreement by all    possible; industries and
stakeholders and Bank    government willing to
appraisal.               finance these activities.
(d) Bid documents and   (e) A credible cost sharing
project supervision reports  and management program
can be developed.
- 36 -



Annex 1:
Attachment
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
April     , 2001
Mr. Mark Baird
Country Director, Indonesia
World Bank
Jakarta Stock Exchange Building
Tower 2, Floor #12
Ji. Jenderal Sudirrnan Kav. 52-53
Jakarta 12190
Re:   Western Java Environmental Management Project (WJEMP)
Program Development Letter
Dear Mr. Baird,
As a signatory to the International Agenda 21, the Government of Indonesia is strengthening its
approach to the management of the environment, including the serious problems faced in urban areas.
Through consultation with the stakeholders, Indonesia has prepared its national Agenda 21. As long tern
reference, some basic policies were formally clarified in the PROPENAS (National Five Year Development
Plan). Following on from initiatives developed during the Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project
(JUDP III) financed with the support of the Bank, the major urban environmental issues have been
assembled under a comprehensive preparation effort for the Western Java Environmental Management
Project.
West Java, DKI Jakarta and the new province of Banten represent the most densely populated and
industrialized region of Indonesia, and, therefore, the most susceptible to environmental decline, depletion
of natural resources, and impact on community health. Considering the extent of the environmental
problems in the Western Java region, the Government intends to implement WJEMP using a phased
approach that is best supported through a 3 stage, 10 year Adaptable Program Loan (APL) initiative.
Despite the extensive preparation effort, the 1st phase of WJEMP referred to as APL I (the Initiation
Phase) is primarily concerned with policy and strategy development and detailing; however, it is also
supported by priority sub-project components that can be implemented quickly by local governments, with
loan funds channeled through Subsidiary Lending Arrangements (SLAs).
This Initiation Phase will be followed by APL 2, the Acceleration Phase, and then a Consolidation
Phase in APL 3. The basis for these phases will be the Local Environmental Strategies to be prepared by
each local government in APL 1, in accordance with the national Urban Environmental Program. Some of
the proposed investments in these later phases are already known. However, as each province and local
government start to become more aware of environmental issues through the preparation of their
environmental strategies, further sub-project components will be added to the proposed investrnent
program. These sub-projects could be public investments, with a form of on-lending of IBRD loan
proceeds to the local governments (to the determined), and private sector or community based development
programs that would also be eligible for funding support under the Project using mechanisms that are
- 37 -



similar to on-going Bank supported poverty alleviation efforts.
WJEMP will be ideally suited for the nature of the Government's program, as it provides the long
term yet flexible commitment that is required for a comprehensive program of environmental awareness,
capacity building, and accommodating sub-projects to be identified by local governments as they increase
their competence in handling urban environmental issues in an era of regional autonomy.
The selection of program activities identified in the Project Implementation Plan April 2001 has
been achieved through several rounds of consultations with the provincial and local governments, and
reflect their local priorities. Other sub-project components to be brought in to WJEMP during APLs 2 and
3 will follow an even more rigorous community consultative approach that fully respects the new era of
regional autonomy. The local governments and their conmrunities, and private sector participants will have
full responsibility for implementation of sub-project components in their regions. Under WJEMP, the
central government will have no responsibility for implementation, instead concentrating on environmental
awareness issues and capacity building in the regions.
In support of WJEMP preparation, each of the local governments has entered into a Memorandum
of Understandings (MOU) with the Executing Agency (Directorate General of Urban and Rural
Development) that confirms their participation in the Ist phase of the Project. As more detail is added to
the subsequent WJEMP phases, these local governments (and others, probably) are expected to enter into
subsequent MOUs that reflect accurately their planned environmental improvement campaigns developed
from the Local Environmental Strategies, referred to above.
Yours sincerely,
Drs. Muhammad Abduh, MA
Deputy, Development Financing
and Foreign Cooperation
or
A. Anshari Ritonga
Director General of Budget
Directorate General of Budget
Ministry of Finance
- 38 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDONESIA: Western Java Environmental Management Project
The environmental deterioration being seen in the urban areas of western Java, which encompasses
the provinces of DKI Jakarta, West Java and the newly created Banten Province, is severe and is
threatening the longer term environmental sustainability of one of the most economically productive areas
of Indonesia. This deterioration is due to rapid population growth, increasing industrial pollution, over
exploitation of natural resources, undercontrolled development and poor waste management.
The Government of Indonesia has requested an adaptable program loan in three tranches in order
to address this environrmental deterioration systematically over the next decade. The proposal from the
Government comprises projects to address the highest priority environmental needs, as expressed by the
local governments during project preparation. The first tranche, APL1, is largely a technical assistance
project aimed at preparing the foundation for sound environmental management through four components:
(a) an overall urban environmental management component; (b) a solid waste management component; (c)
a community and private sector participation component and (d) composting support from the GEF
program.
Each technical assistance (TA) package described below has an introductory table denoting the
name of the TA, the contract number, the implementing agency, the proposed year of start-up, the duration,
and the base cost in millions of US dollars. It is followed by a background section, a brief description of
the TA's terms of reference, and outputs. The overall urban environmental management component and
the solid waste management component both carry civil works, and the solid waste management component
also includes provision of equipment. The civil works and equipment descriptions follow the TA
descriptions.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$11.10 million
Overall Urban Environmental Management
Introduction. This component consists of a total 21 technical assistance (TA) packages which
focus on drawing up environmental strategies for the provinces West Java and DKI Jakarta, and then on
drawing up local environmental strategies for the eight PLGs. The component will also: develop a
strategic plan for the collection and disposal of medical waste; design and implement public education
programs about the importance of a clean environment and what can be done at the local level to improve
the urban environment; develop an emergency preparedness program for Cilegon and Serang; carry out
feasibility studies for and construction of a wastewater treatment; carry out studies and implement works to
protect and improve local lakes; and strengthen the CPMU. Civil works include drainage works in
urban areas and development of parks and city greening. The base cost shown excludes taxes.
West Java Province Environmental Strategy             Base Cost USD million
Contract         Category          Implementing Agency  Year           Duration (months)
West Java 3-1    TA                BAPEDALDA Tk I 1                    15
Background. The most important activity in the Overall Urban Environmental Management
component is the preparation of the West Java Environmental Strategy, which will serve as a model for
environmental strategies to be prepared by each PLG. The environmental strategies will provide local
- 39 -



governments with a basis and guide for controlling the future development of their jurisdictions. Jakarta is
in the process of preparing its strategy. Aside from developing the strategy, urban environmental
management will require capacity building and the preparation of frameworks to respond to priority local
environmental problems.
The TA will:
(a) collect secondary data and review national urban environmental issues;
(b) analyze selected "State of the Environment Reports" to assess crucial regional environmental
problems;
(c) review local urban environmental issues with Bapedalda, other agencies, stakeholders;
(d) present reviews, tailored for each local government, entitled, "Preliminary Statements of Local
Urban Environmental Concerns";
(e) identify options for addressing urban environmental issues raised in reports under (d); and
(f) discuss options extensively with communities, universities, research institutes, industry.
Output: Detailed strategy for the province which will serve as a model for the other provinces and
local government units
Local Environemental Strategy TAs
Year                        Duration (months)
2                            12
TA & Contract              Implementing Agency         Base Cost USD million
Kota Bandung (Kota Bandung 3-1) BAPEDALDA Tk II                                    0.074
Kabupaten Bandung (Kab.       BAPPEDA Tk II                                        0.078
Bandung 3-1)
Kota Bekasi (Kota Bekasi 3-1)    BAPPEDA Tk II                                     0.097
Kabupaten Bandung (Kab. Bekasi BP2P                                                0.075
3-1)
Kota Bogor (Kota Bogor 3-1)   BAPEDALDA Tk II                                      0.111
Kota Cirebon                  BAPPEDA Tk II                                        0.071
(Kota Cirebon 3-1)
Kota Depok (Kota Depok 3-2)    BAPPEDA Tk II                                       0.107
Kabupaten Serang (Kab. Serang   BAPPEDA Tk II                                      0.100
3-2)
Kota Tangerang                BAPEDALDA Tk II                                      0.047
(Kota Tangerang 3-2)
Background. Once the West Java Province Environmental Strategy (West Java 3-1) has been
developed, Kota Bandung will prepare its strategy using the West Java strategy as a model. In developing
the strategy at the local level, the importance of an iterative process which can gradually improve the final
output is recognized. For this reason, the strategy will be developed through consultations with various
stakeholders such as community-based organizations, NGOs, universities, government agencies,
professional associations and the private sector. The public "Urban Forum" will provide the opportunity,
and the "space and time" for civil society to discuss common environmental problems and strategies, and to
explore technical, social, and economic options. A key factor for the success of the consultation process is
transparency. Good databases and easy access to information are vital, as a good strategy is useless if held
only by an elite. The implementing agencies for the development of the environmental strategies of the
- 40 -



local governments will be the respective technical units of the local government (Bapedalda or Bappeda).
The TA will:
(a) review and prioritize urban environmental issues;
(b) review changes and additions to the regulations governing the environment and proposals for
changes;
(c) design a detailed strategy; and
(d) discuss above strategy with various stakeholders.
Output: Detailed strategy and medium and long-term environmental action plan.
Development of a Strategic Plan for the Collection             Base Cost USD million
and Disposal of Medical Waste                                       0.407
Contract           Category            Implmenting Agency  Year                Duration (months)
Pusat 3-l          TA CBAPEDAL                             1                   15 months
Background. In many cities medical waste from hospitals and clinics is disposed of in an unsafe
manner, posing a health hazard for the community. One option is to construct waste disposal facilities
which would serve a number of hospitals and clinics. Having a local facility would reduce operating costs,
making proper disposal more affordable, and would provide opportunities for the private sector to construct
and operate the facilities. Prior to financing any specific medical waste treatment facility, BAPEDAL will
study various options. The study will integrate the findings of previous medical waste studies.
The TA will:
(a) identify existing policies, legislation and regulations within BAPEDAL and the Ministry of
Health, and make recommendations for modifications and additions;
(b) identify waste sources to be included (hospitals, clinics, veterinarians, etc.);
(c) define the types of waste to be covered;
(d) explore options for collection, storage, transportation and final disposal of medical waste,
including the use of existing incinerators or the hazardous treatment facility in West Java;
(e) estimate investment requirements, and determine collection charges according to particular
categories of medical waste and types of establishments. This would include a review of disposal
costs in order to determine an appropriate fee structure for different types of establishments;
(f) analyze cost recovery and financing options;
(g) define the roles and responsibilities of govemment agencies, local governments, hospital
authorities and other establishments;
(h) prepare training requirements for medical practitioners, including an overseas study tour in
southeast Asia;
(i) prepare public awareness requirements (to be conducted in close cooperation with TA contract
Pusat 3-3 for the promotion of environmental awareness);
() analyze prospects for private sector participation in the management of medical waste
collection, storage, treatment, and disposal; and
(k) establish a timetable for implementation of the strategic plan and define the objectives to be
achieved in the initial phase (5 years).
Output: A strategic plan based on a 15-year time horizon with a detailed action plan for the first
five years; detailed proposals for activities for implementation in APL2 (either publicly provided
facilities/services or bidding documents for private sector participation); standard operational manuals
- 41 -



based on already existing generalized procedures; identification of land acquisition needs and environmental
assessment if the plan is to provide publicly owned facilities.
Management and Technical Advisory Services to            Base Cost USD million
Central Program Support Unit                                  2.499
Contract          Category          Impleienting Agency  Yea             Duration (months)
Pusat 3-2        |TA                DGURD             I1                 30
Background. As WJEMP's design is innovative, decentralized, and broad in scope, GOI will
require additional consultant services especially in the early part of the project (APLI).
The TA will:
(a) assist the CPSU in (i) disseminating infornation pertaining to APLl's objectives and
composition, its targets, and specifications, and (ii) preparing APL2;
(b) support "on-the-job" and formal training programs for government personnel, particularly in
the participating local governments and prepare these personnel for more significant
imnplementation efforts in APL2; and
(c) evaluate the capabilities of the concemed implementation units, particularly in the provincial
and local governments as they assume their increased responsibilities through regional autonomy.
Developing appropriate skills, systems and procedures for sustainable operation of APL2 and APL3 will be
an important factor in the execution of this assignment. Provisional sums have been provided in the
contract to enable the CPSU to respond to unforeseen needs for support.
Output: Good performance of local governments; training programs for strengthening local
governments; standard documents for sub-projects in APL2 and APL3; preparation of APL2 proposals;
personnel training programs; WJEMN management information systems including consolidated project
accounts and progress reports
Design, and hnplementation Supervision                Base Cost USD minllion
of Environmental Awareness Component                               0.555
Contract          Category          Implementing Agency  Year            Duration (months)
Pusat 3-3         TA                BAPEDAL            1                 24
Background. As GOI makes improvements in environmental infrastructure and services and more
vigorously enforces environmental law, the public must take a more active role in supporting initiatives in
environmental protection and improvement. The environmental awareness campaign will increase public
recognition of its potential role in promoting a cleaner, healthier and more attractive urban environment.
The TA will define the strategy, target groups, action plan and mechanisms, and also contribute to
establishing a suitable environmental communication forum.
The TA will:
(a) employ the most cost-effective means of communication, using a mix of media, materials, plus
group or community activities;
(b) develop methods to monitor the progress and impact of the environmental awareness campaign;
and
- 42 -



(c) provide measurable indicators that relate to a baseline condition.
Output: Strategy, action plan and mechanisms to increase public environmental awareness;
baseline database on impact of present level of public awareness on a poorly managed urban environment;
detailed campaign strategy for imnplementation, from 2001-2003 and from 2004-2006; management of the
implementation of the first phase of the campaign.
Design and Implementation Supervision                 Base CostUD million
of Environmental Education Component                              0.480
Contract          Category          Implementing Agency  Year            Duration (months)
Pusat 3-4         TA                DIKNAS (Ministry 2                   24
of National
Education)
Background. The Indonesian public's understanding of the impact of poor waste management is
generally low. In addition, decades of non-transparent government mean that people inside and outside
govermment almost completely lack respect for and confidence in environmental rules and regulations. The
government wishes to rebuild this confidence from the ground up.
This TA will:
(a) review the curriculum, teaching materials, teachers' skills and classroom facilities;
(b) draw up a guide book for teachers to use in environmental instruction;
(c) design and implement a training program for teachers; and
(d) design a public awareness program for youth.
This TA will be closely related to the environmental awareness campaign in TA contract Pusat 3-3. The
implementing agency will be the Ministry of Education, particularly the Directorate of Primary and
Secondary Education, and implementation will be managed by the local government, facilitated by this
Directorate.
Output: Teachers' guide book on urban environment issues; training courses for teachers; over
3000 teachers trained; public awareness programs aimed at school pupils.
Local Environmental Awareness, DKI Jakarta              Base Cost USD million
0.151
Contract          Category          fmplementing Agency  Year            Duration (months)
DKI 3-6           TA                BAPEDALDA Tk I 2                     18
Background. Local environmental awareness building is important in Jakarta because the
behavior and activities of the citizens of Jakarta are often emulated by those in the other provinces. The
TA will seek to build local environmental awareness in DKI Jakarta, to promote a spillover effect in
western Java.
The TA will design and implement a program, using the media, events, competitions, exhibitions,
etc., to improve environmental awareness of the citizens of Jakarta and to garner strong, broad-based
support to act responsibly.
Output: Ratio and TV advertisements, competitions, exhibitions
- 43 -



Cilegon/Serang Emergency Preparedness Program               BaseCostUSDmillion0.488
Contract          Category           Implernenting Agency  Year             Duration (months)
Pusat 3-5         ITA                IBAPEDAL             1                 24 months
Background. Cilegon, together with the surrounding areas of Kabupaten Serang, is one of the
most heavily industrialized areas in West Java. There are approximately 275 active industrial enterprises,
of which approximately 147 likely have the potential for industrial disaster such as explosion, fire,
chemical spill and/or leakage of hazardous wastes that would threaten the well-being of the surrounding
communities. To complicate the situation further, Serang sits on a geological formation that is prone to
earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and tsunamis. The potential for industrial disaster in Serang is such that it
was selected as one of three Indonesian locations for a special industrial disaster prevention project by
UNEP. The objective of the Cilegon-Serang Emergency Preparedness Program is to strengthen local
preparedness to the point where industries, emergency services, and the local community will be able to
collectively respond to industrial emergencies.
The TA will:
(a) review systems and procedures;
(b) review organizational aspects;
(c) create a database for development and dissemination;
(d) encourage community participation; and
(e) design training and institutional strengthening.
The Environmental Impact Management Agency (BAPEDAL) wishes to use this program as a
model for similar industrial areas. The TA will work closely with the industry leaders, government
officials and services (e.g., fire, police, military, medical and environment), NGOs, and local community
leaders.
Output: Detailed assessment of the risks of each industry; information dissemination plans; a
five-year emergency preparedness action plan for Cilegon and Serang; detailed simulation training plan; a
monitoring plan; financing plan
FS and DED for Treatment of Wastewater Discharges and           Base Cost USD nillon
Improvement of Kesenden Oxidation Pool                                0.037
Contract           Category          Implementing Agency  Year              Duration (months)
Kota Cirebon 3-2   TA                 PDAM Cirebon       2                  12
Background. Cirebon has a sewerage system serving a population of some 84,000 households or
approximately 30% of the total of 280,000. The local government wishes to expand service coverage by
20% or 56,000 households.
The TA will:
(a) review the operations of the existing systems and the Kesenden oxidation plant;
(b) carry out feasibility studies and detailed engineering design to expand coverage to the proposed
target; and
(c) design sludge lagoons for the Kesenden site to serve both desludging of the anaerobic cells, and
to receive septic tank sludge that is presently discharged in the oxidation ponds with the
- 44 -



consequential detrimental impact on treatment performance.
The TA will be required to develop a self-financing project that could be funded during APL2 with cost
recovery achieved through sewerage charges paid by existing and new households. The local government
will not contribute to the project, but internal subsidies from the water enterprise (PDAM) can be
considered. To assist the PDAM during implementation (during which it will be repaying existing loans),
consideration will be given to reducing dividends paid to the local government.
Output: Review of Kesenden Oxidation Pond and proposed additions for treatment of septic tank
sludge; detailed engineering designs for modifications and expansion of the sewerage system; bidding
documents; institutional strengthening
Study for Nornalization and Development of Lakes             Base Cost USD tOiltion
0.197
Contract           Categosy          lmplementing Agency  Year              Duration (months)
KotaDepok3-1    TA                   |BAPPEDATkII  |1                       12
Background. Located to the south of Jakarta, the town of Depok has a total of 22 small lakes
located in almost every subdistrict. Depok functions as a catchment area for part of the Jakarta region. For
many years, these small lakes, especially the Dongkelan and Pitara lakes, have provided the surrounding
community with a source of income from fisheries, water supply, rain retention basins, recreational areas
and a source of unused land. In addition they also serve as a water supply resource for part of Jakarta.
Increasing needs for development land, together with weak law enforcement and low public
awareness about pollution control, have resulted areas of the lake being encroached upon by multiple users.
This has resulted in uncontrolled exploitation of the lake environment, deteriorating water quality, and
reduced storm water retention capacity, the latter which has contributed to more frequent flooding in
Jakarta.
In 1999, the local government of Depok established a working committee comprising
representatives of various agencies to control, protect and preserve the function of the lakes. The local
government intends to develop an integrated water resource management system for these lakes, and to
establish and maintain close cooperation between the government, private sector, communities, NGOs, and
local schools. The working committee will need strengthening to make it more effective.
The TA will:
(a) review all existing data, and conduct a rapid assessment on the overall existing physical status
of the 22 lakes including flora and fauna;
(b) assess the social interactions of the communities living adjacent to the lakes and their potential
role in sustainable management of the lakes; and
(c) assess possible adverse impacts of upstream pollution flows coming via the rivers.
(d) identify in detail the existing condition of each lake and the hydraulic inter-linkages (if any)
between them;
(e) examine the lake areas, water depths, bank stability, hydraulic control structures, water quality,
sedimentation, water usage of local communities, and usage for water supply;
(f) review the current impacts of solid and liquid waste;
(g) assess the role of each lake for storm water retention and control, and for water supply. Where
the quality of raw water is affected by liquid and solid waste from neighboring communities, the
- 45 -



TA will highlight for priority actions under the implementation program. The TA will coordinate
with other local governments to the south of Depok in an effort to reduce pollution coming from the
upstream areas;
(h) study the potential economic benefits of the proposed improvement plan; and
(i) give attention to fishing and community-based tourism, and other community-based economic
activities.
The proposed improvement plan will be discussed with local communities, NGOs and local
schools. To the maximum extent possible, the objectives should optimize the environmental and economic
function of the lakes, minimize adverse impacts, and consider the social and cultural needs of the
community.
Output: An overall management plan; detailed design for the protection and enhancement of the
three largest lakes; program for the local communities' participation in the protection of the lakes
Feasibility Study and Preliminary Engineering Design for     Base Cost USD million
Cika undun River Domestic Wastewater Facilities                        0.181
Contract          Category          Implementing Agency  Year            Duration (months)
Kota Bandung 3-3  TA                BAPEDALDA Tk  1                      12
Background. Bandung's municipal water supply takes in raw water from the Cikapundung River.
The water quality of the river has worsened alarmingly, due to uncontrolled discharge of household
wastewater. A preliminary study estimated that about 30 liters/sec of domestic wastewater are dumped
into the Cikapundung River from the 13 communities (kelurahans) located along its banks. Water quality
must be improved by reducing pollution loads.
The study area will cover the river bank communities in the vicinity between Siliwangi Bridge in
the north to Sukarno-Hatta Bridge in the south, an area which is not served by the existing network. As the
area is located below existing sewer collectors and is densely settled, special attention will be paid to
alternative technical solutions and combinations of systems, with close consultation with the beneficiaries.
The TA will:
(a) adopt a participatory planning process where alternative technical solutions, their consequences
in terms of land acquisition, pipe alignment, construction phasing, local participation in
construction, and cost implications are thoroughly discussed and agreed with the residents.
Community-based organizations, NGOs and relevant local government agencies will also
participate and assist in the vetting and approval of the proposals;
(b) estimate O&M costs and propose billing rates for connected households; and
(c) assess various alternative options, including the capacity of institutions which could be
responsible for operating the system and propose tentative institutional and training plans to ensure
sustainable operations.
Output: Technical and institutional recommendations, preliminary designs, cost estimates,
estimated billing rates, a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan for the recommended systems, the
proposed institutional arrangements, an institutional strengthening and training plan, and an action plan
with TORs for the next phase.
-46 -



Feasibility Study, AMDAL and DED for Domestic Wastewater Treatment (IPLT) Base Cost USD million
0.1 10
Conhact           Category          Inplementing Agency  Year            Duration (months)
Kota Tangerang 3-1 TA               Dinas TPL TK II   2                  12
(Local Sanitation
Department)
Background. The sludge treatment plan capacity in Kota Tangerang is fully exhausted. This TA
will prepare the Environmental Impact Monitoring Agency (Bapedalda) of Kota Tangerang to prepare for
the implementation of a septic tank sludge treatment plant (IPLT) in the south-east area of the city
(Kecamantan Ciledug). The treatment plant is required because the existing facilities of Kota and
Kabupaten Tangerang are overloaded. An available site that is owned by the local govermment will be
analyzed for suitability and its impact on the neighboring communities assessed, through an environmental
assessment (AMDAL) that will meet national and Bank guidelines.
The TA will review wastewater management needs in neighboring urban areas in Kabupaten
Tangerang and also the western parts of DKI Jakarta. The feasibility study will:
(a) review the 1999 Wastewater Master Plan to check the treatment plant demands for 5 and
10-year planning periods, and also to serve a larger area than planned earlier, taking into account
the needs to serve a larger area, including other subdistricts in Tangerang that may be served by
other treatment plants in the future;
(b) examine areas in southem Kota Tangerang that are prone to flooding and prepare a draft action
plan for serving these areas with improved drainage and/or sewerage because of malfunctioning
septic tanks that back up in heavy rain; and
(c) carry out a financial analysis that is based on sub-sector cost recovery.
Outputs:  Demand forecast for sludge disposal; review of existing sludge disposal practices;
environmental assessment; business plan including proposed charges; proposal for organizational
arrangements including job descriptions; detailed engineering design and bidding documents; operational
manuals
Detailed Engineering Design and Drainage Construction in Urban Areas  Base Cost USD miillion
0.625
Contract          Category          Implementing Agency  Year            Duration (months)
Kota Depok 1-3    CW                DPU Municipal    3                   18
Works
Background: Under TA Depok 3-1, a feasibility study for normalization of the lakes in Kota
Depok will be completed about 12 months into APLI. One of the recommendations expected from the
study will be a drainage plan for the urban areas presently discharging into the lakes.
The Subproject will:
For the areas recommended to be served by improved drainage, the subproject will prepare detailed
designs, bidding documents for construction of the recommended civil works and construction of improved
drainage for some of the urban areas in the municipality.
Output: Improved drainage of urban areas surrounding the lakes and improved control of the
pollution discharged into the lakes.
- 47 -



Detailed Engineering and Construction for Rehabilitation of Lakes  Base Cost USD million
0.52 1
Conttact           Category          Implenenting Agency  Year              Duration (months)
Kota Depok 1-4    CW                  DPU Municipal    3                    18
Works
Background: Under TA, Depok 3- 1, a feasibility study for normalization of the 21 small lakes in
Kota Depok (south of Jakarta) will be completed about 12 months into APL 1. The main recommendations
from the TA will be proposals for an integrated water resource management system and to establish and
maintain close cooperation between the government, private sector, communities, NGOs, and local schools.
It is expected that an immediate objective would be to minimize adverse impacts.
The Subproject will prepare detailed designs and bidding documents for the physical
infrastructure for the recommendedinitiatives. Detailed plans will be developed for implementation of the
institutional strengthening recommended to implement and sustain the proposed developments including
monitoring and control functions. Construction of physical infrastructure will also commence under the
subproject.
Output: Improved water quality and overall environmental quality, physical stabilization of the
lakes, improved management, and strengthened monitoring of the uses and activities related to the lakes and
improved enforcement of regulations, so that the lakes can recover their function as water retention area,
water source for part of Jakarta, and facilitate environmentally friendly activities such as fishing and
recreational activities.
Construction of Domestic Wastewater Treatment (IPLT)           .s46eCostUSDil9on
Contract           Category          Implementing Agency  Year              Duration (months)
Kota Tangerang 1-1 CW                 Dinas Perumahan   3                   12
TK II (Local
Sanitation
Department)
Background. Under TA, Kota Tangerang 3-1, a feasibility study will be undertaken for the
construction of a waste water treatment plant for domestic waste in the south east of the city (Kecamatan
Ciledug), including the required environmental assessment studies that will need meet national guidelines
and the Bank's criteria. For the recommended plant, the detailed design and bidding documents will also
have been prepared.
The Subproject will construct a septic tank sludge treatment plant (IPLT) and establish a
sustainable organization to operate the plant.
Output: Improved treatment of domestic waste and improvement of environmental health as the
increased treatment capacity will enable the municipality to put an end to uncontrolled discharge of
sludges in empty lots and in water bodies.
Wastewater Treatment Facility                       Base Cost rnillion (USD)
and Improvement of Kesenden Oxydation Pond                              0.671
Contract           Category          Inplementing Agency  Year              Duration (months)
Kota Cirebon 2-3  ICW                 PDAM Cirebon       3                  15
- 48 -



Background. The feasibility study, site location and environmental studies, detailed design and
preparation of bidding documents will be undertaken during the first two years of the APL funded from a
provisional sum under TA Pusat 3-2, Management and Technical services to the-Central Program Support
Unit.
The Subproject will construct waste water treatment facility, optimize Kesenden oxydation pond,
and establish a good operation and maintenance guideline. The oxidation pond will be extended if the
feasibility study has established such demand.
Output: Wastewater from a large neighborhood of Kota Cirebon having been treated before
discharge to the sea and an efficient operation of the treatment facility.
Development of City Parks and Greening                Base Cost USD million
Contact           Category         Implementing Agency  Year             Duration (months)
Kota Cirebon      CW                Dinas Pertamanan  13                 12
Background. Planning, and design will be undertaken in consultation with the civil society during
the first two years of the APL, funded from a provisional sum under TA Pusat 3-2, Management and
Technical services to the Central Program Support Unit.
The Subproject will implement urban greening and improvement of city parks through the
involvement of private sector and the community.
Output: Improved parks, improved urban environmental quality, townscape, and micro climate,
enhanced amenity and quality of life.
Project Component 2 - US$6.88 million
Solid Waste Management
Introduction. This component consists of seven TA packages geared specifically toward improving solid
waste management. These include TAs for the establishment of waste management corporations in
Jabotabek and Greater Bandung, feasibility studies, engineering designs and construction of landfills, TAs
related to composting, and TA to introduce the "3R" solid waste reduction scheme and assistance to
waste-pickers. It also includes provision of transport and collection facilities and heavy equipment for a
landfill.
Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation Consultant Support       Base Cost USD million
1.011I
Contract          Category          Imple0mting Agency  Year             Duration (months)
Pusat 3-6         TA                DGURD              1                 30
Background. WJEMP-supported initiatives expect to improve overall municipal service delivery,
especially related to improved solid waste management. One of the key sub-components of the solid waste
management component is the establishment of the Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation (JWMC).
At present, individual cities (kota) and districts (kabupaten) carry out solid waste management and
operations in Jabotabek for their respective service areas. Some of the resources and operations (landfills,
- 49 -



transfer stations, transport services) are best shared or operated jointly. Most cities have their own landfills,
but many of these are nearing exhaustion. Therefore, optimal development of future solid waste
management under comprehensive regional cooperation plans will be required. This is the key justification
for the proposed Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation.
A combination of waste reduction, reuse, recycling and composting has the potential to
significantly reduce the volume of solid waste going to landfills, resulting in sizable cost savings to
municipalities and income potential for individuals. If current management practices continue, the result
will be ever increasing operational and maintenance losses, increased equipment replacement costs,
continued environmental degradation, and a further decline in service levels. In addition, the indirect costs
related to public health, municipal water supply, dumpsite and landfill remediation, flood control
maintenance, and illegal dumping of hazardous and toxic waste, could escalate to crisis proportions.
The TA will cover solid waste management throughout Jabotabek, including:
(a) establishment of the JWMC;
(b) planning, feasibility studies for the eventual construction of new transfer stations and landfills
in Jabotabek;
(c) support to the GEF composting grant program and sub-projects in compost product
development and marketing, and waste recycling; and
(d) implementation of the proposed medical waste strategic plan.
Output: Strategic plan (including proactive NIMBY initiatives) and site identification; business
plans including the role of the private sector; legal framework for the Corporation; operational plans, job
descriptions, and an operational organization.
Greater Bandung Waste Management Corporation              Base Cost USD million
Consultant Su  ort                                        0.415
Contc             Category          Implementing Agency  Year            Durahton (monts)
West Java 3-2     TA                BAPEDALDA Tk- 1                      24
I
Background. At present, the city of Bandung (kota) and the surrounding district of Bandung
(kabupaten) which together make up Greater Bandung, are responsible for solid waste management and
operations for their respective service areas. Some resources and operations (landfill, transfer stations,
transport services) are best shared or operated jointly, especially because the city of Bandung has
exhausted available land within its administrative area for sanitary landfill sites.
Both local governments have expressed interest in forming a joint solid waste management entity,
and will be expected to benefit from the existence of a single overarching plan for the operations and
management of solid waste in Greater Bandung. There is a possibility that one or two more neighboring
local governments (Garut and Sumedang) will join the Greater Bandung Waste Management Corporation
(GBWMC).
A combination of recycling and composting has the potential to significantly reduce the volume of
solid waste going to the landfill, resulting in sizable cost savings to the municipalities and income potential
for individuals, NGOs and private companies. There is a considerable agro-business community in the
Bandung area that could serve as a basis for the private sector to become involved in composting, with
- 50 -



which GBWMC will develop close cooperation.
The TA will explore opportunities for solid waste composting in Greater Bandung, especially to
reduce the potentially high cost of transporting urban waste. The TA will liaise closely with the medical
waste study TA (Pusat 3-1) to ensure coordination in implementation.
Output: Strategic plan (including proactive NIMBY initiatives) and site identification; business
plans including the role of the private sector; legal framework for the Corporation; operational plans, job
descriptions, and an operational organization
Feasibility Study, AMDAL and DED for Kopiluhur TPA              Base Cost USD million
0.157
Contract           Category          Implementing Agency  Year              Duration (months)
Kota Cirebon 3-3  |TA                IDinas Kebersihan   l 1                12
Background. Solid waste management in the city of Cirebon has become a critical concern. The
solid waste disposal site (TPA) at Grenjeng was exhausted over a year ago, and has raised protests from
the surrounding community. As an emergency measure, the garbage is being disposed of in an open dump
in Harjamukti village in Kopiluhur subdistrict. Soil cover is done every two or three days in order to
mitigate the worst effects. Compaction is done using a small bulldozer each time a truck dunps garbage,
while the wastepickers search for recyclable materials. No proper engineering has been done.
The city's plan for Kopiluhur includes the use of geo-textiles to block leaching. Before a geo-textile
liner can be placed, the newly dumped waste must be removed. A remedial program and specific
identifications for "no dump" areas need to be identified, followed by implementation of a strict disposal
management regime. A feasibility study, environmental impact assessment, and detailed engineer design
(DED) for TPA Kopiluhur are crucial to achieve compliance with GOI and Bank environmental standards
and requirements for sanitary landfills.
The TA will:
(a) review existing plans;
(b) project the amount of waste to be generated until the year 2020 and the capacity of Kopiluhur,
and evaluate the existing and potential recycling and composting in Cirebon;
(c) define a definitive plan for the Kopiluhur TPA, including selecting from various methods for
controlled or sanitary landfills, siting, design, technology selection, construction techniques, and
operation and maintenance procedures;
(d) carry out DED which includes (i) construction pre-design of TPA Kopiluhur, (ii) technical
design of construction works, (iii) workloads description conceming necessary material and labor,
(iv) sequence of implementation, monitoring, and supervision activities for physical construction,
and (v) bidding documents;
(e) define an institutional plan for operating the TPA and a training program for all staff directly
associated with the TPA operation as well as city managers;
(f) draw up an environmental impact assessment complying with Indonesian regulations, World
Bank standards for conducting environmental social studies and impacts assessment for new
projects, and community consultation procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines; and
(g) conduct stakeholder consultations with local affected groups through the establishment of a
public advisory board to be set up and funded by the project during APL 1.
Outputs: Definitive plan for the Kopiluhur TPA; DED for infrastructure works; institutional
- 51 -



plan; enviromnental and social assessments
Improved Solid Waste Management Services and Feasibility Study,  Base Cost USD million
AMDAL and DED for new TPA in East Serang                              0.236
Contract          Category          Implementing Agency  Yeau            Duaibon (months)
Kab. Serang 3-1    TA               Dinas Kebersihan   1                 12
Background. The existing solid waste disposal site (TPA) at Cilowong is the only one in Serang,
and it serves only the urban area in the western part of the district (kabupaten). The existing TPA is very
poorly managed, causing serious local environmental damage. To serve the rapidly expanding eastern part
of Kabupaten Serang, the local government has proposed the development of a new TPA in eastern Serang.
The new TPA is expected to serve five subdistricts (kecamatans), as well as an extensive industrial area of
about 20,000 ha that is planned in eastern Serang, that is already supporting 190 operating industrial units
in a first phase of about 8,000 ha. The site selection of the new landfill will be subject to careful site
selection analysis using criteria to be agreed with the Bank.
The cleansing agency (Dinas Kebersihan) of Kabupaten Serang has limited solid waste collection
and transportation infrastructure and equipment. Of the existing equipment, only 40% is in adequate
operating condition. One of the consequences is that the local government is not able to fully support the
collection and disposal of industrial waste, thereby missing the opportlunity for increasing revenues and
extending solid waste management services to the poorer areas of Serang and other smaller towns.
It is essential to establish a new TPA in East Serang to increase coverage. Serang will improve its
operations of the existing TPA in order to reduce the level of local environmental damage. In accordance
with the overall objectives of WJEMP, the cleansing agency will promote the "3R" concept of "reduce,
reuse, recycle". Composting will be included in the plan in order to reduce the total volume of waste.
The TA will:
(a) conduct a feasibility study;
(b) carry out an environmental impact assessment;
(c) carry out DED for the construction of a TPA in East Serang;
(d) examine the potential role of the private sector (especially local industrialists) to support
improved waste management throughout Serang; and
(e) design a plan to encourage regional cooperation with Cilegon city in order to optimize the use of
available TPA capacity and the use of solid waste collection and transportation equipment.
During the execution of this assignment, the TA will be required to proactively coordinate with the CPSU
to ensure that the overall WJEMP objectives are fulfilled. CPSU will be responsible for ensuring that
proposed WJEMP environmental and technical solutions being developed elsewhere under the project are
shared with the cleansing agency and the TA.
Outputs: Feasibility study, environmental impact assessment, DED for the new TPA, plan to
optimize solid waste activities between Serang and Cilegon
Design of GEF Grant Mechanism for Compost                Base Cost USD mniiion
Contact| Category                  Implementing Agency  Yea              Duration (months)
Pusat 3-7 (GEF)   |TA               |BAPEDAL          II                 18
-52 -



Background. Ever increasing solid waste production in urban area can have serious impacts on
the environment and creates a heavy burden on city finances to manage it. During decomposition, solid
waste also produces huge amounts of methane gas which contribute to global climatic change. Composting
can significantly help reduce these adverse impacts. Composting organic waste is a technically simple
option, and is potentially less costly than sanitary landfills. It also reduces greenhouse gas emissions. To
assist in promoting significant composting operations in western Java, the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) has approved a grant of $10 million equivalent to be managed through WJEMP. The grant is
proposed to support the development of viable compost production and marketing systems in Jakarta and
West Java.
Support for composting is based on the fact that even well designed and operated sanitary landfills
do not recover more than 60% of the methane generated, and are therefore a source of greenhouse gas
production. The potential benefits from developing a viable compost production and marketing system are:
(a) reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, (b) reduced usage of non-point source polluting synthetic
fertilizers, (c) reduced soil erosion, and (d) more sustainable agricultural practices.
In Indonesia most of the compost production has been relatively small scale, and has not developed
marketing and quality control systems. Little consideration is given to the potentially large-scale
agricultural end users. Composting must be justified on the basis of supplying a quality product to a
defined market at competitive prices. Analysis done during project preparation indicates that there is a
potential supply of 1.15 million tons. If it can be delivered at the right quality and price, a significant
market is waiting to be served.
The TA will develop a compost grant mechanism, develop a market for agricultural use of
commercial scale composting, and establish a technical advisory team. Detailed activities include the
following:
(a) assess composting technology, production, and marketing development;
(b) assess compost quality and competing products;
(c) assess the price of compost relative to competing products;
(d) assess current marketing system of compost and other fertilizers;
(e) prepare quality control mechanisms;
(f) estimate market demand and targets for increasing supply;
(g) develop and conduct marketing campaign, especially targeted at large scale users; and
(h) develop an international compost information dissemination strategy.
The objective of this subcomponent is to achieve an additional 60,000 tons of compost by the end of APLI,
through a combination of a compost grant mechanism and marketing assistance. The mechanism will be
simple to administer, transparent, and easy to verify that the funds are being used as intended. The first 10
months of the TA will be for the preparation of the frameworks and mechanisms, and the subsequent phase
(20 months) will assist in supervising and evaluating implementation.
Output: A report containing the above assessments, recommendations for quality control
mechanisms, market demand projects, design of a marketing campaign; recommendations for institutional
management of the production grants; legal instruments necessary for implementation of the institutional
arrangements
- 53 -



Development of Commercial Scale Composting Plant              Base Cost USD million
Contract           Category  .mplementing AgencyDinaS Year                  Duration (months)
DKI 3-3           TA                 Kebersihan DKI    112
Background. Jakarta authorities wish to expand composting of solid waste significantly to reduce
the volume of waste being landfilled and hence reduce expenditures for solid waste management in the
budget. In addition, increased production and usage of compost have positive environmental impacts both
at the micro and macro levels.
At present, municipal waste is composed of paper, plastic, glass, rubber, textiles, metals, and
organic material. Some materials are recycled but the volumes are modest. The remaining solid waste,
especially the organic waste, is sent to landfills. Solid waste in Indonesia has a high organic factor
(60-75%). It is also quite dense and contains a lot of moisture. The high organic fraction makes
composting an attractive alternative to reducing the amount of waste being landfilled (in addition to
recycling inorganic matter). Composting will help to (i) reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and (ii) reduce
the amount of waste sent to landfills, thus saving the avoided disposal costs, reducing landfill areas,
reducing traffic to landfills, and reducing investment costs for new equipment.
DKI Jakarta introduced composting in the late 1980's, but the focus was more on small-scale
composting. With the decision to reduce the organic fraction being landfilled, it is important to develop
large-scale commercial compost plants. The city has considered constructing a plant on DKI-owned land.
The TA will:
(a) establish a commercial scale compost plant to produce high quality compost;
(b) link the compost production to other WJEMP activities such as compost marketing initiatives
and GEF grant scheme;
(c) assist with project site selection and management of vehicle movements to/from the plant;
(d) draw up preliminary engineering designs;
(e) carry out the initial environmental assessment;
(f) project the production and sale of compost based on outputs from a parallel marketing
assessment (separate assignment under WJEMP);
(g) estimate project cost and financing plans; and
(h) prepare bidding documents for potential private sector investments in partnership with DKI
Jakarta.
Output: The output of this sub-project will be a 100 ton/day increase in good quality compost
production. Depending on the findings during this TA, DKI may enter into a BOO/BOT contract with a
private operator or it may enter into a multi-year compost supply contract for 100 t/day. To assess the
options, a feasibility study will be undertaken to guide DKI including preliminary engineering design,
environmental assesment, and costs and financing plan
Community-Based Solid Waste Management - Reduce, Reuse and Recycle     Base Cost USD million
(3R) and Assistance to Waste Pickers                                0.473
Contract           Category          Implementing Agency  Year              Durion (months)
DKI 3-2/3-7        TA                 Dinas Kebersihan   1                  30
Background. The volume of solid waste produced in urban areas is increasing rapidly, rendering
- 54 -



the disposal problem difficult to cope with. The urban solid waste management problem cannot be solved
only by adding more personnel, equipment, or budget. It is very important to make efforts to reduce the
amount of waste through the "3R" program of reduce-reuse-recycle.
The "3R" program represents a comprehensive effort in environmental management to minimize
the amount of waste in the production, distribution, and consumption of goods, covering:
(a)  waste reduction: minimization of waste in the industry through better design, better
processes, and use of more suitable raw materials, and also minimization in the distribution
system by more efficient packaging or by avoiding excessive packaging;
(b)  waste reuse: using waste "as is" for secondary uses or /processes, such as using wastewater
from cleaner processes for other processes which do not require clean water, reusing used
cloth or textiles, furniture or equipment; and
(c)  waste recycling: using waste as raw material for other useful products through other
processes, such as composting, producing plastic pellets from used plastics, producing office
paper from used paper, processing used oil, etc.
Waste reduction will mainly be the role of industries and distributors, but consumers should be
encouraged to buy products which support waste reduction. Waste reuse by individuals or businesses can
significantly reduce waste. Waste recycling can generate income for low-income communities as well as
small and medium size industries.
The main activity of this TA will be the development of community-based recycling including
assistance to waste-pickers, and a public awareness campaign to reduce or reuse waste especially those
related to community activities.
The private sector can play an important role in waste reduction, reuse, and recycling as producers
and suppliers and also as buyers of secondary raw materials supplied by the community and home
industries. The challenge is how to develop and strengthen linkages between the community, the private
sector, and the agencies.
In the solid waste management chain in Indonesia, the waste-pickers both at landfills and collectors
around town are known as "pemulung"; those who buy recyclable materials from waste-pickers are
"lapak"; "bandar" are waste traders, and "pemasok" or suppliers to industries, play important roles.
Waste-pickers are the most vulnerable group with low and fluctuating incomes, living in unhealthy
settlements, and exposed to disease. They are the under-privileged and usually are excluded from
development programs or social activities. Waste-pickers work at various levels of the urban solid waste
management system: at the household level, at the transfer sites, and at landfill sites such as Bantar
Gebang where 3,000-4,000 work. The project will help waste-pickers be more productive and improve their
living conditions.
The TA will:
(a) develop a strategy and action plan to promote waste reduction-reuse-recycling, including
preparations for implementation;
(b) develop an action plan for community-based recycling involving all stakeholders in two project
areas;
(c) develop an action plan to increase the scope, efficiency, and productivity of waste-picker
activities (at the household level, market, transfer sites, and final disposal sites) and to improve
their living conditions;
- 55 -



(d) facilitate the establishment and development of cooperation between the private sector, informal
sector, community cooperatives, and the five municipalities in DKI Jakarta to maintain a
sustainable framework for waste reduction-reuse-and recycling;
(e) identify locations for two pilot projects, design implementation plans, -and identifying
procurement needs for equipment, facilities and civil works in the two pilot project areas; and
(f) support the cleansing agency (Dinas Kebersihan) in the implementation of the pilot projects in
years 2 and 3 of APLl. Implementation would start with simple activities in year 2, and be
expanded in year 3 of APLI.
Output: Strategy plans for community-based waste reduction; detailed action plans for two pilot
communities in DKI Jakarta
Solid Waste Transport and Collection Facilities            B  aeCostUSD million
Contract          |ategory           Implementing Agency  Year              Duration (months)
Kota Cirebon 2-1  IGoods             iDinas Kebersihan  13                  12
Background. A needs assessment and feasibility study which will be undertaken during two years
of the APL, funded from a provisional sum under TA Pusat 3-2, Management and Technical services to the
Central Program Support Unit.
The Subproject will provide Kota Cirebon with solid waste transport and collection facilities, and
guidelines to improve the efficiency of the operations.
Output: Improved and extended service of solid waste transport and collection, and higher
efficiency.
|   Heavy Equipment at Kopiluhur Landfill Site            Base Cost million (USD)
Contract          Category           Implerenteig Agency  Year              Duation (months)
Kota Cirebon 2-2  |Goods              Dinas Kebersihan   3                  15
Background. A needs assessment and feasibility study will be undertaken during two years of the
APL funded from a provisional sum under TA Pusat 3-2, Management and Technical services to the
Central Program Support Unit.
The Subproject will provide heavy equipment for sanitary landfill sites to replace the very old and
wom out equipment, and establish a good and consistent operation and maintenance program and
guideline, including its budget plan.
Output: Better and more efficiently operated sanitary landfill sites and established operation and
maintenance program and guidelines and its related budget.
Construction of New Solid Waste Disposal Site              Bas3 Cost USD million
Contract          Category           Implementmng Agency  Year              Duration (montbs)
Kota Tangerang 1-3 CW                Dinas Kebersihan   3                   15
- 56 -



Background. The feasibility study, site selection and environmental studies, detailed design and
preparation of bidding documents will be undertaken during two years of the APL funded from a
provisional sum under TA Pusat 3-2, Management and Technical services to the Central Program Support
Unit.
The Subproject will provide a sanitary landfill and an institution capable of operation the
landfill in a technical and financial sustainable manner.
Output: Improved waste collection in the municipality and safe disposal of solid waste.
Construction of Kopiluhur Solid Waste Disposal Site        Base Cost USD million
___________________________________________________________0.802
Contract          Category         Implementing Agency  Year             Duration (months)
Kota Cirebon 3-1   CW               Dinas TPL TK II   3                  18
(Local Sanitation
Department)
Background. The feasibility study, site assessment and environmental studies will be undertaken
during two years of the APL under TA Kota Cirebon 3-3. If the site is confirmed to be an acceptable site
for a landfill, the TA will proceed to produce detailed engineering design and bidding documents. If the
Kopiluhur site is found unsuitable, the TA will expand the site identification study. Stakeholder
consultation will be conducted with local affected groups through the establishment of a Public Advisory
Board to be set up and funded by the project during APLI
The Subproject will provide Kota Cirebon with an environmentally safe solid waste disposal
facility and strengthening of the institutions responsible for waste collection and disposal,
including operational and supervision procedure together with capacity building/training.
Output: Improved waste collection in the municipality and safe disposal of solid waste.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.53 million
Community and Private Sector Participation
Introduction. This component consists of seven TAs. It focusses on support mechanisms for small and
medium industries; support to the soybean processing industry; support for a number of operations which
are potential targets for private sector participation; and the community environment facility.
Preparation of Program Design and Implementation Plan for     Base Cost USD million
Small and Medium Scale Industry Support                            0.240
Contract          Category         Implementing Agency  Year             Duration (months)
Pusat 3-9         TA                DEPERINDAG        2                  18
(Ministry of
Industry and Trade)
Background. The facility is open to all small and medium-sized industries submitting proposals
during implementation; it is not limited only to the tofu processing, batik, or electroplating industries. A
committee will review the proposals and decide to what extent the proposed action would benefit the
environment. The facility can be in the form of credit, training, information, or other assistance.
- 57 -



Most of the pollution in urban areas comes from industry. Therefore it is crucial to encourage
industries to take an active role in preventing and reducing pollution. Large industries and some of the
medium industries have participated in the Clean River Program (PROKASIH) and the "PROPER" system,
which Bapedal uses to evaluate and rate industries (in terms of black, orange, green gold, from worst to
best), and then discloses lists of the most polluting industries. The program is ongoing and has successfully
reduced the amount of pollution discharged to rivers. There has been little involvement from small and
medium-sized industries and households.
After working for many years with large industries, it is now necessary to look at the small and
medium-sized industries, and encourage them to contribute to pollution prevention and reduction. Most of
these industries have very low capacity (in financing and human resources) in terms of environmental
protection and improvement. It is necessary to provide incentives for them to behave responsibly in parallel
with strengthening law enforcement.
The TA will:
(a) consult stakeholders to get their inputs to improve the current government policy, strategy,
program and mechanisms;
(b) provide technical assistance, training, and information on ways to reduce pollution; and
(c) design incentives and a financing facility which WJEMP will provide in APL2 and APL3 to
build waste treatment or improve the efficiency of their production processes to reduce pollution.
These efforts will be closely related to environmental awareness campaign and law enforcement.
The implementing agency for this sub-component will be the Ministry of Industry and Trade, working
closely together with BAPEDAL and DGURD. BAPEDAL will be a member of the Selection Committee.
The Ministry of Industry and Trade is operationally responsible for the development of industry, including
its environmental protection aspects.
Outputs: Literature to disseminate way to reduce pollution to small and medium sized enterprises;
report proposing incentives and design of grant facility for APL2 and APL3; recommendations for
administration of the Fund.
Preparation of Program Design and Implementation Plan for    Base Cost USDnDillion
Community Environment Facility (CEF)                             0.343
CnUtact          Category          lmplementing Agency  Year           Duration (months)
Pusat 3-8         TA               DGURD, with       2                 12
assistance from DG
of Community
Development
(PMD) and local
governments
Background. The success of environmental management very much depends on public support
and participation. The understanding of local environmental problems and community participation in
improving their settlement, are the foundation for understanding macro problems and for developing
support for a sustainable environment. The CEF will assist the community in developing activities and
small businesses which help to reduce pollution and improve environmental quality. It will include technical
assistance, training, facilitators, and a grant facility. The program and mechanisms will be developed in the
second year of APL1.
- 58 -



This TA will:
(a) based on the plans developed during project preparation, prepare the frameworks, organization
and procedures to assist environmental protection and improvement at the community level;
(b) lay the groundwork for the financing facility through information, training, and grant; and
(c) define the procedures to select a financial institution through which to channel the project funds
later on.
This scheme is different from the TA to small and medium industries, which will be managed at a higher
level (central or provincial) due to its higher coverage. WJEMP will make the funds available in APL2 and
APL3 through an implementing bank. The implementing agency for preparation will be the Directorate
General of Community Development (PMD), and implementation will be managed by the local
governments, facilitated by PMD.
Outputs: Detailed frameworks, organization and procedures to operate the CEF in APL2 and
APL3.
Preparation of Soybean Processing Industries Pollution Reduction Program  Base Cost USD million
in Central Jakarta                                       0.128
Contract          Category         Implementing Agency  Year             Duration (months)
DKI 3-5a          TA                Dinas PERINDAG  1                    12
Tk I
Background. Inefficiencies in soybean processing result in significant losses of raw materials and
excessive organic (BOD) waste loading into waterways. The over 4,600 soybean processing industries in
Jakarta account for 80% of the total waste load from the food sector in Jakarta. Even if ranked separately
from the food sector, soybean processing ranks third in terms of total negative environmental impacts from
small-scale industry behind car repair shops and textile/batik dyeing.
Roughly 70% of soybean processors are located in clusters of about 50 individual producers, while
30% are scattered. The current location of many soybean producers is unsuitable, mostly along river banks
in the low-income areas. Waste is insufficiently treated (if at all), resulting in polluted waterways, which in
turn, result in conflicts with the downstream population. However, the industry is important, as soy-based
products are an inexpensive, staple food.
There are three different ways to deal with waste from the soy industry. Firstly it can be prevented
through more efficient use of raw materials or production of byproducts. Up to 90% reduction in waste
discharge can be achieved based on preventive measures alone, motivated by profit-driven market forces.
Secondly it can be treated, or converted to a less polluting form, one of which uses the Anaerobic-Aerobic
Fixed Film Reactor similar to that being employed in South Jakarta. Finally it can be discharged, causing
environmental problems.
Opportunities for increasing efficiencies of processing raw materials and for reducing waste
discharges in this industry hinge on applying techniques to capture lost material from the waste stream for
the production of saleable by-products (such as soy sauce and Nata de Soya), or through reintroduction
into the primary products (closed loop production). In the case of soy production, the principal waste
stream is "whey" which is currently discharged by soy producers, although it contains 33% of the soybean.
- 59 -



The TA will:
(a) explore various prevention options such as reusing the whey, changing production processes,
and producing saleable by-products from the waste stream such as Nata de Soya or soy sauce;
(b) explore various waste treatment options and their cost and benefits; -
(c) indicate financing options, both through WJEMP and other available sources (such as the
existing small scale credit schemes);
(d) carry out financial and environmental analyses of alternative production and treatment options,
and the impact on the environment (cost-benefit) for each option;
(e) conduct consultations and small testing with the soy producers in an iterative "feed and
feedback process" to check the applicability and acceptability of various options;
(f) test the marketing of new by-products through a survey of consumer preferences regarding
waste stream by-products;
(g) estimate market potential of by-products at current production costs, i.e., financial viability of
the overall concept (self-sustained reduction of waste from soy production through profit-oriented
prevention strategies applied industry-wide); and
(h) carry out the preliminary engineering design for a pilot plant to serve as a demonstration project
including preparation of bidding documents for implementation in the first year of APL2.
The TA will conduct consultations with soy producers to discuss ways to improve the settlements
and living conditions, in addition to exploring ways to reduce pollution. Micro credit will be available
through the assistance for small and medium industries which will be managed separately in the WJEMP.
Outputs: Action plan to make improvements, organization framework to implement common
activities.
Support to Soybean Processing and Salted Fish Industries in Northern Jakarta   Base Cost USD million
0.220
Contract          Category         Implementing Agecy  Year              Duration (months)
DKI 3-5b          TA                Dinas PERINDAG  2                    12
Background. Inefficiencies in soybean processing result in significant losses of raw materials and
excessive organic (BOD) waste loading into waterways. The over 4,600 soybean processing industries in
Jakarta account for 80% of the total waste load from the food sector in Jakarta. Even if ranked separately
from the food sector, soybean processing ranks third in terms of total negative environmental impacts from
small-scale industry behind car repair shops and textile/batik dyeing.
Roughly 70% of soybean processors are located in clusters of about 50 individual producers, while
30% are scattered. The current location of many soybean producers is unsuitable, mostly along river banks
in the low-income areas. Waste is insufficiently treated (if at all), resulting in polluted waterways, which in
turn, result in conflicts with the downstream population. However, the industry is important, as soy-based
products are an inexpensive, staple food.
There are three different ways to deal with waste from the soy industry. Firstly it can be prevented
through more efficient use of raw materials or production of byproducts. Up to 90% reduction in waste
discharge can be achieved based on preventive measures alone, motivated by profit-driven market forces.
Secondly it can be treated, or converted to a less polluting form, one of which uses the Anaerobic-Aerobic
Fixed Film Reactor similar to that being employed in South Jakarta. Finally it can be discharged, causing
- 60 -



environmental problems.
Opportunities for increasing efficiencies of processing raw materials and for reducing waste
discharges in this industry hinge on applying techniques to capture lost material from the waste stream for
the production of saleable by-products (such as soy sauce and Nata de Soya), or through reintroduction
into the primary products (closed loop production). In the case of soy production, the principal waste
stream is "whey" which is currently discharged by soy producers, although it contains 33% of the soybean.
The TA will:
(a) explore various prevention options such as reusing the whey, changing production processes,
and producing saleable by-products from the waste stream such as Nata de Soya or soy sauce;
(b) explore various waste treatment options and their cost and benefits;
(c) indicate financing options, both through WJEMP and other available sources (such as the
existing small scale credit schemes);
(d) carry out financial and environmental analyses of altemative production and treatmnent options,
and the impact on the environment (cost-benefit) for each option;
(e) conduct consultations and small testing with the soy producers in an iterative "feed and
feedback process" to check the applicability and acceptability of various options;
(f) test the marketing of new by-products through a survey of consumer preferences regarding
waste stream by-products;
(g) estimate market potential of by-products at current production costs, i.e., financial viability of
the overall concept (self-sustained reduction of waste from soy production through profit-oriented
prevention strategies applied industry-wide); and
(h) carry out the preliminary engineering design for a pilot plant to serve as a demonstration project
including preparation of bidding documents for implementation in the first year of APL2.
The TA will conduct consultations with soy producers to discuss ways to improve the settlements
and living conditions, in addition to exploring ways to reduce pollution. Micro credit will be available
through the assistance for small and medium industries which will be managed separately in the WJEMP.
Outputs: Action plan to make improvements, organization framework to implement common activities.
Feasibility Study for Pulogadung Domestic/Industrial           Base Cost USD rmillion
Wastewater Treatment System                                       0.432
Contract           Category           Implementing Agency  Year               Duration (monfts)
DKI 34             TA                  Dinas PU Tk I      1
Background. In 1996 detailed designs were prepared by a private firm for a wastewater treatment
plant for the industrial estate in Pulogadung. Because of the financial crisis, implementation was never
started.
This TA will:
(a) update the design and cost estimates; and
(b) prepare a feasibility study for inclusion of the domestic waste from the neighboring low-income
residential areas.
In considering the feasibility of the proposal, the TA will review the possibility of private sector
participation in the operation and possibly the ownership of the treatment plant.
- 61 -



Output: update of the industrial waste water projections; review of the adequacy of the existing
design, including the feasibility of includng discharges from the low-income residential areas, proposals for
tariff structures; detailed design and bidding documents for the proposed or revised design and proposed
institutional arrangements.
Feasibility Study for Centralized Wastewater Treatment             Base Cost USD illion
for Industries                                               0.081
Contract            Category            Implementing Agency  Year                Duration (month)
Kab. Serang 3-3     TA                  BLH (Environment 3                       12
Bureau)
Background. There are two principal industrial areas to the west (900) industries and in the
south-east (300) industries. Of these 1,200 industries, 300 are classified as large; only 50 of these
industries have industrial waste treatment facilities, and many of these fail to meet discharge standards. The
technical assistance is required to prepare a comprehensive plan for the management of industrial
wastewater from these two principal areas. TA contract Tangerang 3-2, which will have started in year 1
of the project, will produce a strategic environmental plan which will provide the overall framework for this
TA.
The TA will: evaluate altemative wastewater collection and treatment arrangements, including the
preparation of alternative least cost phased implementation programs that take into account the anticipated
cost of land purchase, and the social impact of land acquisition and resettlement (if any).
Output: Inventory of all industrial wastes in Kota Tangerang (working from existing data and
Supplemented by surveys); site identification study and preliminary environmental impact assessment of
alternative treatment plant sites and inventory of affected persons (if any); feasibility studiy and
preliminary design with proposed business and organizational plans.
Feasibility Study for Centralized Wastewater Treatment             Base Cost USD million
for Industries                                               0.081
Contac              Category            Implementing Agency  Year                Duration (months)
Kota Tangerang 3-4 TA                   BAPEDALDA            3                   12
Background. In Kota Tanerang there are two principal industrial areas to the west with 900
industries an in the south-east with 300 industries. Of these 1200 industries, 300 are classified as large.
Only 50 of these industries have industrial waste treatment facilities, and many of these fail to meet
discharge standards. This TA will follow on with the local strategic plan prepared during the first two
years of the project (TA contract Kota Tangerang 3-2).
The TA will:
(a) prepare a comprehensive plan, including site identification, for the management of industrial
wastewater from these two principal areas including wastewater from housing sub-areas within
these industrial locations;
(b) evaluate alternative wastewater collection and treatment arrangements, including the
preparation of alternative least-cost phased implementation program, taking into account land
acquisition and social impacts
- 62 -



Output: Inventory of all industrial wastes; preliminary environmental impact assessment of
alternative treatment plant sites and inventory of affected person.
Project Component 4 - US$1.77 million
Composting Support (GEF Program)
Disbursement of Grants and Subsidies to Compost Producers for Additional    Base Cost USD million
Production in WJEMP Participating Local Governments in Accordance with          1.774
Mechanisms and Procedures Defined under Pusat 3-7 TA
Contact          Categoly         I|mplementing Agency  Y              Duration (months)
Pusat 2-1 (GEF)  isub-grant       IBAPEDAL           13                24
Background. The TA under this contract Pusat 3-7 will have established the framework for the
fund to be operated through a financial institution.
Output: Producers of 60,000 tons of high quality compost will receive grants; the financial
institution will provide compost producers grants in accordance with the terms developed earlier.
- 63 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDONESIA: Western Java Environmental Management Project
1 00 Xd  0f ;t::0  XT7 t- 0  X:  : i:iT0:qX:Q::::: :Local      Foretig :4  Totel: 
l:000000000project000  Cost By: Component     ;02  :    US ;$miU1ion   US $milliorif U0fiS $mimlLliont
Overall Urban Environmental Management                    7.41          2.09         9.50
Solid Waste Management                                    3.53          2.27         5.80
Conmmunity and Private Sector Participation               1.30          0.38         1.68
GEF Component                                             2.25          0.09         2.34
Total Baseline Cost                                      14.49          4.83        19.32
Physical Contingencies                                   0.32          0.21         0.53
Price Contingencies                                      2.41          0.36         2.77
Total Project Costs             17.22          5.40        22.62
Front-end fee                    0.12         0.12
Total Financing Required              17.22         5.52         22.74
Locai       Foreign        Total
Pjec.          _.Cost By Category       US $million    US $millien   US $millon
Goods                                                       0.27          1.61          1.88
Works                                                       4.07          0.90          4.97
Technical Assistance                                       10.20          2.80         13.00
GEF Compost Services                                        0.33          0.09          0.42
GEF Compost Grant                                           2.37          0.00          2.37
Total Project Costs    17.24           5.40        22.64
Front-end fee                    0.12         0.12
Total Financing Required     17.24          5.52        22.76
- 64 -



Incremental Cost Analysis
Broad Development Goals
The proposed Westem Java Environmental Management Project (WJEMP) will improve urban
environmental services and municipal waste management, consolidate the Indonesian governnent's
n-unicipal service decentralization efforts, and support local economic development in the major urban
areas of western Java and Jakarta. The proposed GEF component - an innovative organic waste
composting program - will pilot an environmentally sound and potentially efficient method of managing
organic waste that would also cost-effectively reduce Indonesia's GHG emissions. If successful, it will
provide a replicable model for organic waste management that can be applied in other urban areas of
Indonesia and in other developing countries.
WJEMP within the longer term Western Java Environmental Management Program.
GOI requested Bank assistance for its longer-term program, and the Bank agreed in principle to assist
through a three tranche APL covering nine(?) years of the program. The GEF at the same time agreed to
the government's request to provide a US$ 10 million grant for the nine year program period. The analysis
deals with the entire program period.
Like for the other activities in the program, the APLI will predominantly be used to undertake the detailed
design, set up the institutional framework and to initiate some pilot activities.
Baseline
Currently, about 50% to 60% of the urban waste stream in the West Java and Jakarta areas is collected and
dumped at "basic" landfills, which are mostly open dumps. Collection rates are lower in poor
neighborhoods - Jakarta's collection is estimated at 66%, but Botabek's is only 23%. The rest of the waste
is dumped in canals or vacant lots or is burned. Management of the existing disposal sites is deficient in a
number of areas: irregular waste covering, sporadic compaction, poor dumping control, ineffective
leachate collection and treatment, etc. Anaerobic decomposition of the organic waste that is dumped
creates significant quantities of methane, a potent greenhouse gas. However, under the unfavorable landfill
operating conditions, methane collection and flaring have not been attempted at any of the sites, so most of
the methane escapes into the atmosphere. An altemative means of reducing methane emissions from wastes
- separating organic and non-organic waste and composting the organic component - has been tried on a
small scale in about 40 local areas, and a few such programs are still operating. Areas of high organic
waste supply have been identified and many people are aware of composting and its potential role in a
cost-effective integrated waste management system.
All levels of government within Indonesia recognize the environmental unsustainability of existing waste
management programs and are attempting to remedy the situation. The proposed project is one example of
the environmentally sustainable baseline situation that GOI is striving to achieve. The project's goal for
the Jabotabek urban region is 100% collection coverage and sanitary landfilling by end 2006. Since most
of the waste disposal will occur in existing sites where retrofitting for methane collection would be very
costly and difficult, methane collection will not be attempted under the baseline scenario. Although will
costs vary considerably between sites, it is estimated that the sustainable waste management baseline
system (sanitary landfilling with no methane collection) will cost an average of $35.00 per tonne of waste
received on site by 2009. The baseline costs will be much less than this initially, but will rise over time as
- 65 -



more effective and sustainable waste collection and disposal techniques are applied. These costs will
financed by Indonesia.
Global Environment Objective
The global environment objective of the project's GEF component is to cost-effectively reduce GHG
emissions from the decomposition of collected organic waste in western Java. Assuming the component is
successful, a second objective is to facilitate its replication and hence further GHG reductions in other
urban areas in Indonesia and other developing countries.
GEF Alternative
The GEF alternative would promote an alternative, less technically demanding and hence potentially more
widely replicable way to reduce landfill GHG emissions than sanitary landfill with methane collection,
which is to compost part of the organic waste stream in the neighborhoods that produce it and sell the
compost to farmers for use in their fields. Composting is an aerobic (with oxygen) waste degradation
process that produces C02 as a by-product. Sanitary landfilling results in anaerobic decomposition, which
produces methane (CH4). Composting is a potentially cost-effective way to reduce GHG emissions
because: (a) methane produced by anaerobic decomposition is a much more potent GHG than the C02
produced by composting, plus the best designed and operated landfill gas recovery systems (or anaerobic"
fuel cells") collect 80% of the methane, at the very most; (b) composting occurs much closer to the waste
generation source, thus reducing waste collection and transportation costs and their associated emissions,
and composting also avoids the operation of landfill equipment; (c) compost application reduces the use of
synthetic fertilizers, which involve an energy-intensive, GHG-emitting manufacturing process. (Although
compost only has a low fertilizer contribution, its ability to improve soil structure enables more efficient
use of fertilizers).
Under the GEF alternative, communities in the Jabotabek region would be encouraged by financial
incentives and assisted technically to aerobically compost an average of at least 100,000 tonnes/year of the
organic waste they produce over the nine year life of the program. Mechanisms would be developed to
market the compost to local farmers. The GEF Alternative would thus divert at least 100,000 tonnes/year
of organic waste from landfills, where it would otherwise decompose anaerobically. In so doing, it would
reduce GHG emissions by about 600,000 tonnes of C02 equivalent per year.
Scope of the Analysis
The scope of the analysis is: (a) the urban organic waste stream and the associated system for the
collection and disposal of this waste in the Jabotek region of Indonesia; and (b) the agricultural area around
this region that will use the compost that is produced by the GEF altemative method for processing this
share of the organic waste stream.
Costs
The objective of the GEF Alternative is to divert 1,000,000 tonnes of organic waste from local dumps and
landfills to compost production over the program's nine year life. The estimated cash flows of the Baseline
and GEF Alternative systems are summarized in the following table:
- 66 -



Incremental Cost Analysis Table
2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009
Waste treated (tonnes per year)      40,000  60,000  75,000 100,000 125,000 150,000  150,000 150,000 150,000
COMPOSTING
Costs PER TONNE
Collection                             3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    4.0    4.0    4.0
Separation                             3.0    3.0    3.0    3.5    3.5    3.5    4.0    4.0    4.0
Residue Disposal                       2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Public Education                       2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
Processing (inci land and capital)    28.0   28.0   27.0   27.0   26.0   25.0   25.0   24.0   23.0
Transport                              3.0    3.0    3.0    3.5    3.5    3.5    4.0    4.0    4.0
Management/Quality Assur               3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Total Costs                           45.0   45.0   44.0   45.0   44.0   43.0   44.5   43.5   42.5
REVENUES PER TONNE
Revenue from Disposal fee (same as the  4.0    4.8   10.1   13.0   16.9   20.8   32.5   33.8   35.0
Total Landfilling Cost)
Revenue from sale of compost           0.0    1.0    2.0    3.0    4.0    5.0    6.0    7.0    8.0
Total revenue (US$ per tonne of waste)  4.0    5.8   12.1   16.0   20.9   25.8   38.5   40.8   43.0
Cost difference between composting and  41.0   39.2   31.9   29.0   23.1   17.3    6.0    2.8   -0.5
landfiling(US$ per ton)                                  I 
Cost difference stream (for all waste) in  1.6    2.4    2.4    2.9    2.9    2.6    0.9    0.4   -0.1
million US$
Total cost difference stream (million US$)    16.0
Present value of cost difference stream    11.1
of INCREMENTAL COST (million US$)
at dicount factor of   10%
LANDFILLING COSTS                   Uncon-                                      Land-
troled                                      filling
dispo-                                      costs
sal
Investments PER TONNE
Environmental remediation (if required for    1.0    1.0    2.0    2.9    3.9    4.8    7.5    8.0    8.5
the landfill) incl. closure
Site Acquisition (incl. community      0.0    0.0    2.0    2.6    3.3    3.9    4.8    4.9    5.0
compensation)
Transfer                               0.0    0.8    1.6    2.4    3.3    4.1       6.0    6.3    6.5
Design and Costr.                      0.0    0.0    1.0    1.0    1.8    2.5    5.5    5.8    6.0
Operational costs                      3.0    3.0    3.5    4.0    4.8    5.5]    8.8    8.9    9.0
Total Costs                            4.0    4.8   10.1   13.0   16.9   20.8   32.5   33.8   35.0
The agreed incremental cost of the GEF Alternative is $1 1.1  million. Indonesia requests a GEF grant of
$10.0 million, and will fund the balance of these costs from its own resources. The GEF grant request
equates to a unit GHG abatement cost of $1 .7/tonne of carbon equivalent.
-67 -



Incremental Cost Matrix
Baseline                 Altemative      -          Increment
Global Environment        Negative. Expanded         6.0 million tonnes of
Benefit                   waste collection and       methane gas emissions
sanitary landfilling      avoided by diverting
increases anaerobic        1,000,000 tonnes of
decomposition and         organic waste to
methane emissions.        composting.
Domestic Benefit          Better community           Same as baseline.
health from more
effective waste
treatment.
Costs                     US$22.9 million            US$34.0 million            US$1 1.1 million
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$rn) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 20.2 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 86.73% of
total project cost net oftaxes.
- 68 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
INDONESIA: Western Java Environmental Management Project
To assist in overall program development an Economic Rate of Return, using data from the
Jabotabek Environmental Management study, was estimated for the nine year program. The summary
follows.
A discrete economic analysis does not apply for APL 1, Western Java Environmental Management
Project (WJEMP), which include few physical investments but sets the strategic framework, strengthens the
institutions and prepares the feasibility studies and detailed design for the investments to be undertaken late
in APLI and in APL2 and APL3.
Regional Economic Setting
1.   'The provinces of West Java (which included the new province Banten at the time) and DKI
Jakarta contained some 41.6 million and 9.5 million people respectively in 1998. The population of the
project area was estimated at 16.6 mnillion, 33% of the regional total. The population growth rate 1995 to
1998 was 1.9% in West Java and 1.2% in Jakarta, both declining from previous periods. In West Java 48%
of the population is urban. The growth of the urban population of the region 1995 to 1998 was estimated at
4.3%, compared to 5.0% 1990 to 1995. Most of the growth up to 1996 took place in Botabek (Bogor,
Tanggerang and Bekasi, all included in the WJEMP).
Table A4.1      Population of the Project Area, Jakarta and West Java (000)
I________ _______ X=Total                                1998 Total            Growth % pa
Kota/          1990       1995       1998   Group       Region    1990195       1995198
Kabupaten       (000)       (000)      (000)    %            %          %
Jakarta          8228        9144       9489      57.0%                2.1%         1.2%
Bandung          2069        2422       2502      15.0%                3.2%         1.1%
Tanggerang        NA         2303       2263      13.6%                             -0.6%
Bekasi            NA         1640       1457       8.8%                             -3.9%
Bogor             272         329        346       2.1%                3.9%         1.7%
Cilegong          NA          313        332       2.0%                             2.0%
(Serang)
Cirebon           255         266        259       1.6%                0.8%         -0.9%
Project           NA        16417      16648     100.0%       32.6%                 0.5%
West Java
Other        NA         489       3389        8.2%       6.6%                 90.7%
urban
Total     12208       16906      20037      48.2%       39.2%    6.7%         5.8%
urban
Total          35380       39340      41578     100.0%       81.4%    2.1%         1.9%
% Urban        34.5%      43.0%       48.2%
Region
Urban          20436      26050       29526      57.8%       57.8%    5.0%         4.3%
Total          43608      48484       51067     100.0%      100.0%    2.1%         1.7%
% Urban        46.9%      53.7%       57.8%
Note: Tanggerang, Bekasi and Cilegong were not classified as kotamadya (cities) in 1990 and separate population data is not
available. Cilegong is the recently formed kot within Kabupaten Serang.
- 69 -



2.     Average per capita GRDP in Jakarta is some four times that in West Java. This is not reflected in
worker earnings. In 1997, West Java's manufacturing non-supervisory workers earned 97% of those in
Jakarta. Earnings in West Java are also less skewed even at that level (the median wage of workers was
2.2% higher than in Jakarta). The cost of living in Jakarta, as evidenced by the minimum wage, is similar to
that in the surrounding areas of Jabotabek but some 20% higher than in the remaining areas of West Java.
3.    As recorded in pre-crisis statistics, the proportion below the absolute poverty line was 2.5% in
Jakarta and 9.9% in West Java (10.5% in urban areas and 9.4% in rural). Post-crisis statistics are
unreliable, but imply that the overall proportion of the urban poor has increased to some 20%.
4.     Other surveys to determine the effects of the crisis (RAND with USAID and World Bank funding
and surveys) showed that mean incomes in West Java and Jakarta decreased significantly more than the
average but that median incomes did not. Data imply that largely it was the incomes of the comparatively
wealthy that fell the most while those of the poor were less affected.
Regional Environmental Health
5.    The environmental study of the Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project (JUDP3) found that
the overall levels of air and water pollution in the region were severe, costing the inhabitants some US $750
million per year (some $ 55 per person). Some 85% of the cost was due to air pollution, mainly from urban
transport: around 5%, or US $40 million per year, was caused by the burning of solid waste. The
remainder was due to water pollution, some US $110 million a year. These costs are considered
conservative, since they only include the ill effects of some of the known pollutants (a later study on urban
policy (Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project (SURIP-UTPP) estimated the annual transport related
costs of air pollution in Jakarta alone as some US$1.3 billion).
6.    In 1995, cases of diarrhea per thousand people were reported to be 38.5 in West Java and 12.4 in
Jakarta. The national average was 25.8. A similar relation relates to cause of death and morbidity. In West
Java diarrhea is one of the top ten causes of hospital death. Similarly, diarrhea is the 3rd most treated
disease at health centers in West Java and the seventh in Jakarta. Diarrhea or intestinal infection was the
main cause of admission to hospitals in both West Java and Jakarta. Similar data are not available for other
water-related diseases but JUDP3 record the following for DKI Jakarta in 1992.
Table A4.2    Water Related Diseases, DKI Jakarta 1992
Disease     Admissions   Deaths    Estimated due to
(1,000)                water quality
Diarrhea      20624        489          76%
Cholera       1224         20           90%
Hepatitis      2062        79           50%
Typhoid       11420        170          50%
- 70 -



Paratyphoid     988         38            40%
Total        36318       796
7.     The Program will contain four major components, each with sub-components:
*   overall environmental management
*   solid waste management
*   community and private sector participation
*   GEF supported composting grants.
8.    Local governments were asked to propose sub-projects and some 190 have been identified. These
are of varying sizes and only some 60 are costed at more than US$ 150,000. In many cases, the sub-project
will itself contain separate sub-components. This applies particularly to CEF sub-projects but will also
include sub-projects in other sectors.
Sub-Project Economics
9.     Sub-projects fall into two major groupings: (a) those whose benefits are generic and determined by
the overall level of pollution and (b) those whose benefits are location specific. This distinction will be used
to determine the type of analysis required. The CPSU will determine whether or not a specific sub-project
can use one of the generic groups or should have its own location specific analysis.
10.   Generic projects are those whose benefits will depend largely on the overall level of environmental
degradation. While the benefits to such projects would be different in areas with more or less pollution,
variations in the benefits within any one area will be minor as long as they follow standard operating
procedures. These procedures will be determined by the CPSU.
11.   The generic groupings that have been identified are the nine relevant groups specified by JUDP3
and the conmmunity environment facility sub-projects. These are discussed below. Followed by a discussion
of the project groups which might require specific evaluation. Those that have already been identified are:
industrial pollution (SME), composting and flood control.
12.    Sub-projects of all sizes should be subject to least cost solutions analysis. Projects below
US$100,000 will not require economic evaluation but should have a financial analysis. Projects between
US$100,000 and $50,000 require an economic evaluation only if there is no generic ERR which
demonstrates viability. The latter will be accepted only if the project follows standard operating procedures
set by the Project. Sub-projects over US $250,000 should receive a detailed economic evaluation, although
this can make use of the JUDP3 asswmptions and data used to make their generic ERRs.
13.   All sub-project proposals will be required to provide a description of the direct and indirect
beneficiaries and of the effects that will be mitigated by the project. The description should include
beneficiary nunbers and their physical/socio-economic condition. Since land values will often be required,
the area affected and the present average land value should be estimated. Data should also be collected on
the current level of parameters related to whatever effect it is proposed will be reduced, e.g., cases of
diarrhea.
- 71 -



Indicative Project ERR
14.   An indication of the project ERR can be provided from the JUDP3 evaluation of the available data
on sub-projects costing more than US $150,000. They imply an overall project ERR of 20.4% (as shown in
Table A4.5 at the erid of this annex).
JUDP III Project Types
15.   The JUDP3 project identified 12 sub-project types, nine of which have been or might be proposed
for WJEMP. The JUDP3 project ERRs were based on the human health costs of air and water pollution.
The forrner used standard dose-response relationships and the results were found to be conservative by the
SURIP UTPP urban transport study. The effects of water pollution used a cross-sectional and time based
analysis of river water quality and diarrhea. Adding other water borne diseases would increase the benefits
by around 50%.
16.   The retums on the JUDP3 sub-projects would be only marginally affected by location specific
data. The project calculations were made for the Jabotabek area, which includes all of the program areas
apart from Bandung, Serang and Cirebon. The pollution situation outside Jabotabek is certainly less severe.
However, the diarrhea situation in West Java as a whole implies that using Jabotabek derived data is not
unreasonable. Therefore, it is proposed to use the generically based ERRs for all projects that can be
directly related to one of the above project types.
17.   The JUDP3 ERRS, which allowed for the costs of management, training, advisory consultants and
public awareness programs, were as follows.
Table A4.3   JUDP3 Project Economic ERRs
Project Type                                  ERR
Rubbish Collection/Disposal                   26.2%
Toxic Waste Management                        19.0%
Septic Tank Maintenance                       23.2%
Community Septic Tanks (see below)            Neg.
Local Drain Cleaning                          14.9%
Diesel Vehicle Particulate Control            20.1%
CNG Large Bus Fuel                            26.5%
LPG Small Bus/Taxi Fuel                       17.0%
Environmental Protection & Pollution Control
Inspection/Advisory Service (see SME below)   28.0%
Source: JUDP III Phase III Report, June 1994
- 72 -



Community Environmental Facility (CEF) Projects
18.   The ERRs for Community Environmental Facility projects will also be estimated generically. They
include waste collection, drainage and latrines. These sub-projects are very similar to the kampung
improvement projects (KIP) which the Bank funded since Urban I started in 1972. Those projects were
justified by their likely effects on land values. The 1988 project completion report (PCR) for the Urban III
Project validated this assumption. It estimated average land price increases resulting from KIP of: 24%
along roads, 29% along footpaths and 61% in inner kampungs. These reflected in ERRs of 26% to 31%.
The 1995 impact evaluation report confirmed the PCR's estimated land value increases (but noted the need
to assure that these benefits accrued to residents).
Industrial Pollution Control (SME)
19.   The J`UDP3 analysis found large potential benefits from setting up an agency to control industrial
pollution (estimated ERR of 28%). The benefits would be from decreased fuel burning and from decreased
dumping in the drains/rivers. Industrial waste is specific to the proposed intervention and it would be
necessary to validate the benefits for each proposal. This would be particularly imnportant given the obvious
opportunities for collusion. The Central Program Support Unit will evaluating sub-projects to ensure the
capture of social benefits.
Community Septic Tanks
20.    The JUDP3 finding for community septic tank benefits is surprisingly low. One reason is the short
period assuned but extending this would not increase the return sufficiently. Similarly, JUDP3 included
significant costs for management and awareness campaigns etc. Even excluding these raises the ERR to
only some 4%, however. The finding is important since it is government and Bank policy to support
commrunity facilities such as these. Therefore, the issue of sewerage requires more comprehensive review
and is not included in the Program
Composting
21.    Composting rates in Jakarta are insignificant. In West Java more waste is composted and an even
higher percentage (35%) is burnt at source. This probably reflects the rural areas. The program areas are
likely to have characteristics more similar to Jakarta's.
Table A4.4    Garbage Disposal Practices
Province         Collected   Composted    Burnt       River      Dumped       Total
West Java          18.6%        6.0%       35.4%      11.5%       28.5%      100.0%
Jakarta           70.2%         0.8%        9.9%      4.3%        14.8%      100.0%
Indonesia          17.0%        6.2%       34.5%      8.6%        33.7%      100.0%
Source:
Environmental
Statistics of
Indonesia, BPS
1996, p 132
- 73 -



22.   The World Bank internal study Small Scale Composting, Financial and Economic Analysis, A
Case Study recommended that the government could provide compost marketing support in an attempt to
expand demand, but should not provide financial support to producers unless the social benefits would be
sufficient to validate them.
23.   The analysis was based on the cost and revenue structure of a plant with capacity of 16
tonnes/month. Demand, which gave a sufficient financial return, was at least 60% of capacity. Low relative
demand, when social returns are insufficient to justify support occurred at around 40% of capacity. A
relatively narrow range, 40% to 60% of capacity, occurs where government intervention would be both
necessary and economically viable. At the lower end of the range, the ERR would be the assumed 10%
cut-off rate, rising to 20% at the higher end.
24.   The emphasis should be on the correct estimation of demand for the compost. A compost plant can
be both economically and financially viable as long as the demand was correctly forecast and capacity
properly related to demand. The burden should be placed on the project proposers to explain why a subsidy
is needed. Proposers will be required to prepare a detailed business plan with validated sales forecasts.
These alternatives will be investigated by the Program.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
N/A
Main Assumptions:
N/A
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
N/A
- 74 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDONESIA: Western Java Environmental Management Project
Years Ending
June
Year I | Year 2  |Year3 3       Year4 4    Year 5      Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         2.3        7.6        7.2        5.5        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs        2.3        7.6        7.2        5.5        0.0        0.0        0.0
Front-end fee    0.1      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing            2.4        7.6        7.2        5.5        0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD                    0.1        2.8         5.0        3.8        0.0       0.0        0.0
IDA                     2.0        3.8        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government (total)     (0.2)       (0.7)     (0.9)       (0.9)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)
Central              0.1        0.4        0.4        0.1        0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial           0.1        0.2        0.1        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Local Govts.         0.0        0.2        0.4        0.8        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries  0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
GEF                      0.1        0.2        1.4        0.8        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   2.4        7.6        7.2        5.5        0.0        0.0        0.0
_                X ~~~~~~~Year I  Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5  LYear 6      Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0 0        0.0
Recurrent Costs         0.0        0 0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Front-end fee   0.0      0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiersLocal Gvts   0.0      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
- 75 -



Others                   0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing   0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
The Bank financing of US$ 17.53 million of which IDA US4 5.75 million and US$ 11.78 million.
The project base cost is US$ 19.32 million; physical contingencies - US$ 0.53 million, and price contingencies - US$
2.78 million. GEF currnent cost financing is US$ 2.54 million.
Exchange Rate I US$ = IR 9,600.
- 76 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDONESIA: Western Java Environmental Management Project
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods will follow the "Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits", January 1995 edition, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Standard Bidding Documents (including Standard Prequalification and Bid Evaluation Documents), which
may be updated from time to time, will be used for all Bank financed procurement.
Selection of consultants will follow the "Bank Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers", January 1997 edition, revised September 1997 and January 1999 and "Standard
Request for Proposals for Selection of Consultants", July 1997 edition, revised April 1998 and July 1999.
The compost grants under the GEF grant will be distributed through a financing intermediary in accordance
with guidelines to be developed during the first year of the project and acceptable to the Bank.
The Procurement Plan providing a timeline for each step of the procurement process has been prepared for
APLI and will be updated annually.
A Procurement Capacity Assessment Report (PCAR) was conducted for the project and is available on the
project file. This covered legal issues, project cycle management, organization and functions, support and
control systems, record keeping, staffing, the general procurement environment, and overall risk
assessment.
Summary of the Procurement Capacity Assessment. The legal framework which was revised by GOI in
early 2000 is generally acceptable. However, NCB procedures still have weaknesses. The new Keppres
18/2000, revising the old Keppres 16/1994, includes new provisions on procurement of goods and selection
of consultants, and guidance on fraud, corruption and collusion practices. In general both Keppres' have
some acceptable guidelines, rules and procedures compared with the World Bank's procurement guidelines,
rules and procedures. However, there are still provisions in these Keppres' that are inconsistent with Bank's
guidelines, such as: (a) the criteria and procedures for prequalification are unclear; (b) interest for late
payments is unclear; (c) automatic re-bidding if the participating bidders number less than three; (d)
rejection of all bids if all bidders' prices are above the budget allocation; (e) above certain contract
thresholds, a large firm or foreign firm must join with smaller firms or a local firm; and (f) the guidelines
for the procurement of goods and selection of consultants are unclear. A supplemental letter on NCB has
been agreed with GOI and is an attachment to this Annex.
The institutional anchoring of procurement is weak with bidding committees and senior project positions
being temporary in nature and without clear guidelines. The biggest weakness, however, stems from a long
culture of collusion among contractors, inefficient use of consultants, lack of transparency and interference
from senior levels in the process, and the transient nature of the committees and staff responsible for
procurement. The ongoing decentralization of responsibilities to the local govemnments adds uncertainty to
how the future performance will be. Under the project, each implementing unit will implement only two to
five contracts, mainly TA contracts, which will be of sizes similar to what they have been procuring in the
past. All contract documents and methods of selection for the first year's procurement were agreed by the
Bank prior to negotiations, thereby reducing the risk of delay in procurement. Considering the various risk
elements, the overall risk assessment is: Average.
- 77 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A shows the project cost by procurement arrangements.
During project preparation, GOI changed the overall administrative procedures of the country from being a
centralized system basically with all responsibilities located at the central administration in Jakarta to a
decentralized form of govermnent with the main responsibilities transferred to the local governments. As
the responsibilities and the regulations to guide the decentralization had not been spelled out at the time of
making the decision, the Govenmment and the Bank agreed to develop the project in a manner which made it
least dependent upon the future regulations and that resulted in the first project of three APLs becoming a
TA loan, only. During the negotiations, GOI expressed its desire to accelerate the implementation of nine
civil works and goods subprojects from APL 2 to APLI with implementation starting during the last year
of APLl. The negotiated documents confirm that procurement under each of these nine will have to comply
fully with the Bank's guidelines and have to be approved individually by the Bank.
The principle method for procurement is ICB. Contracts for Goods estimated to cost US$200,000
equivalent or less and contracts for civil works estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent may be procured
under NCB procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
During negotiations, GOI and the Bank agreed on a draft supplemental letter relating to NCB procedures.
A copy of the draft supplemental letter is attached in Annex 6 and it was agreed that the supplemental letter
would also be included in the Project Agreement Manual.
Of the nine subprojects, six are for civil works at a total value of US$4.0 million and will all be procured in
accordance with ICB procedures except for one subproject worth about US$0.17 million being procured
through NCB. The remaining two subproject projects are procurement of gods i.e., specialized solid
waste trucks and heavy equipment for operation in the landfills, and are estimated to cost of US$1.9
million. GOI agreed during negotiations that the procurement of specialized vehicles will not be part of the
Government's reserved list and they would both be done by ICB.
The consulting services, for capacity building, development of regulations, guidelines, standards, operating
procedures, preparation of investment projects, detailed engineering and design, studies and for training and
awareness building, estimated at US$13.4 million, will be provided under consultancy contracts procured
using the consultants selection methods shown in Table Al. Ten consultants' contracts estimated to cost
US$5.1 million will be selected based on Quality and Cost (QCBS). Quality Based Selection (QBS) has
been selected for 23 consultancy service contracts, where assignments are highly specialized and where
consultants have to show willingness to innovate and seek alternative solutions. The estimated cost is
US$7.9 rnillion. One TA to be financed under the GEF Grant (NBF) will be procured under QBS.
- 78 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category             ICB             N?C            Other         NJ.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              4.36             0.15           0.00          0.00        4.51
(3.93)           (0.14)        (0.00)         (0.00)      (4.07)
2. Goods                              1.71             0.00           0.00          0.00         1.71
(1.54)           (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)      (1.54)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          11.81          0.38        12.19
Consultants' Services                (0.00)           (0.00)        (11.81)        (0.00)      (11.81)
4. GEF Sub-grants                     0.00             0.00           0.00          2.16        2.16
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.16)       (2.16)
5. Front-end fee                      0.00             0.00           0.12          0.00        0.12
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.12)        (0.00)       (0.12
Total                              6.07             0.15          11.93          2.54        20.69
(5.47)           (0.14)        (11.93)       (2.16)       (19.70)
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan/Credit/Grant. All costs include
contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment
units.
N.B.F. Not Bank Financed
- 79 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (US$ million equivalent. Current and incl. tax)
Pusat 3-1               Development of a Strategic Plan for the Collection and Disposal of Medical Wastes  _             491,731             |        491731
Pusat 3-2               Management and Technical Advisory Services to Central Program Support Unit               -      3,082,463           -       3,082,463
Pusat 3-3               Design and Implerrentaton Supervision of Environmental Awareness Component        679,031                      =              679,031
Pusat 3-4               Design and Implementation Supervision of Environmental Educaton Component         593895                                      593,895
Pusat 3-5               Ciegon/Seranp Emergency Preparedness Program                                             -       596,820                      596,820
Pusat 3-6               Jabotabek Waste Manawenient Corporaion Consultant Support                        1,245,654                          -       1245,654
Pusat 3-8               Preparaion of Program Design and Implemenrtaton Plan for Community Environment
Facifity                                                                          424,599                                    424,599
Pusat 3-9               Preparation of Program Design and ImplernentaDon Plan for Small and Medium Scale
Industry Support (SNIS)                                                           294,319                                    294,319
West Java 3-1           West Java Province Environmental Stratepy                                         635,696                                     635,696
West Java 3-2           Grater Bandung Waste Management CorporaDon Consultant Support                     507,727                                     507,727
DKI 3-2/3-7             Community Based Solid Waste Management- Reduce, Reuse and Recycle (3R) and
Assistance to Waste Pickers                                                              -       588,975                      588,975
DKI 3-3                 Develoment of Commercial Scale Compost Plant                                      501,235                                     501,235
DKI 3-4                 Feasibility Study for Pulogadung Domestic / Industial Wastewater Treatment System                514,729                      514,729
DKI 3-5a                Preparation of Tahu Industries Poliuton Reduction Prograrr in Central Jakarta                     152,985                     152,985
DKI 3-Sb                So   to Tahu I Temp  Sated Fish Industries in North Jakarta                                =     267,129                      267,129
DKI 3-6                 Local Environmental Awarness-DKI Jakarta                                                          187,912                     187,912
Kota Bandung 3-1        Kota Bandung Local Environmental Strategy                                                -        90,305                       90,305
Kota Bandung 3-3        Feasibility Stedy and Prelininary Engineering Design for Cikapundung River Domestic
Wastewater Faciities                                                                             216,258                      216,258
Kab. Bandung 3-1        Kabupaten Bandung Local Erreronmental Strategy                                                    95,258            -          95,258
Kota Bekasi 3-1         Kota Bekasi Local Environmenta Stratepy                                                           118,271                     118,271
Kab. Bekasi 3-1         Kabiupaten Bekast Local Environmental Strategy                                           -         90,888                      90,888
Kota Bopor 3-1          Kota Bogor Local EnvironmentalStrategy                                                           134,730                      134,730
Kota Depok 3-1          Study for Norrnmaikatbon and Manapernent of Lakes                                                235,202                      235,202
Kota Deok 3-2           Kota Depok Local EnviromnenttSlrateal y                                                           130,360           -         130,360
Kota Tangerang 3-1      Feasibility Study, AMDAL and DED for Domesltc Waste Treatment (IPLT)               133,273                                    133,273
Kota Tangerang 3-2      Kota Ta  erans Local Environmental Stray                                                           57,388                      57,388
Kota Tangerans 3-4      Feasibility Study for Centrabzed Indusries Waste Water Treatment                                 103,482                      103,482
Kota Clrebon 3-1        Kota Cirebon Local Environmental Strategy                                                         86,810                       86,810
Kota Cirebon 3-2        FS and DED for Treatment of Waste Water Discharges and Improve Kesenden
Oxidaton Pool                                                                      45,153                                      45,153
Kote Citreon 3-3        Feabiti Study, AMDAL and DED for TPA Kopiur                                              -       196,580i                     186,560
Kab. Serang 3-1        Improved Solid Waste Management Services and FS, AMIDAL and DED for New TPA               -       281,077                      281,077
Kab. Serang 3-2         Kabupaten Serang Local Environmental Sategy                                                       121,621                     1121,621
Kab. Seran 3-3          Feasibility Studyfor Centralized Industries Waste Water Treatment                                 103,482                     103,482
Pusat 3-7 (GEF)         Design of GEF Compost Grant Mechanism and Marketing Study for Agricultural Use of
_________________comameria scale Cop t-418,454                                                                                                  418,454
Note:  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be firanced by the Bank Loan/IDA Credit.
- 80 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The 43 procurements under the project for technical assistance, will be done by 15 local government uniis
in 8 local governments, four provincial units (in three provinces) and four national government units. Of
the 10 contracts estimated at more than US$0.5 million, five will be procured by national government units,
three by DKI and two by the Province of West Java.
Table B shows the threshold values for prior review. Since the project is the first of three planned APLs,
particular attention will be paid to procurement procedures to inculcate good practices from the start of this
planned nine-year relationship. The major procurements in civil works and goods vre scheduled for the
second and third APL, with TA dominating procurements in APLI.
The Procurement Capacity Assessment Report identified the unfavorable procurement climate in the
implementing agencies, and Indonesia generally, and identified the risk as average. Hence, to mitigate the
risk and to help the implementing units to start well on the nine year program, the first contract within each
procurement category and each implementing unit will be subject to prior review. To remove the
temptation to fragment contracts into smaller contracts, the threshold for prior review of bidding documents
for goods and civil works have been set at US$100,000.
Contracts for consultants' services estimated to cost $100,000 or more for firms will be subject to prior
review (seven contracts). The following will be subject to prior review by the Bank: (a) terms of reference
for such contracts; (b) the qualifications and experience; and (c) the terms of employment. For
consultancies financed from provisional sums, all documents, including contracts and selection mrthods,
will be subject to the Bank's prior review.
- 81 -



Table B1: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review - IDAIIBRD Loan
Expenditure            Contract Value         Procurement      Contracts Subject to
Category                Threshold              Method            Prior Review
(US$)                                  (US$ millions)
1. Works               First contract each local    ICB and NCB            4.52
government agency.
Thereafter contracts for
$100,000 or more
2. Goods               First contract each local    ICB and NCB            1.71
government agency.
Thereafter contracts for
$100,000 or more
3. Services             First contract each local  See Table Al     TORs, shortlists and
government agency.                        qualifications for all
Thereafter contracts for                        contracts.
firns of $100,000 or more,                         (13.35)
and for individuals of
$50,000 or more
Table B 2: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review - GEF Grant
Expenditure           Contract Value            Selection         Contracts Subject to
Category               Threshold               Method              Prior Review
(US$ )                                    (US$ rnillions)
3. Contractual       First contract each local       QBS             TORs, shortlists and
Services               government agency.                            qualifications for all
Thereafter contracts for                            contracts
firms of $100,000 and                               (0.42)
more
4. Sub-grants                N.A.              Will be determined           2.37
after Year I and to
be approved by the
Bank
Total                                                                       2.79
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    20.00 million
- 82 -



Annex 6
Attachment
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Supplemental Letter No. 2
,2001
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Re:   Credit No. _-IND
Loan No.    -IND
(Western Java Environmental Management Project)
Representations and assurances relating to
National Competitive Bidding Procedures
Dear Sirs:
In connection with the Development Credit Agreement of this date between the Republic of
Indonesia and the International Development Association (the Association) and the Loan Agreement
between the Republic of Indonesia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank) for the above-captioned Project, I am writing on behalf of the Republic of Indonesia to set forth the
following:
1.    General
The procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding under Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement shall be those set forth in Presidential Decree No. 18/2000 of the Republic
of Indonesia with the clarifications set forth in the following paragraphs required for compliance with the
provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (the Guidelines).
2.    Registration
(a)    Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.
(b)    Where registration is required, bidders (i) shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete
the registration process, and (ii) shall not be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and
resources to successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification.
- 83 -



3.     Pre-qualification
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works (not for simple goods and
works):
(a)    eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-qualification, and
(b)    invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated
national daily newspaper a minimum of 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification
applications.
4.     Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to form a joint
venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a condition of award of the
contract.
5.     Preferences
(a)    No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders.
(b)    Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and local regulations,
which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of contractors or a class of suppliers shall
not be applicable to procurement procedures under the Credit or the Loan.
6.     Advertising
(a)    Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper allowing a minimum of 30 days for the preparation and submission of bids and allowing
potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 24 hours prior the deadline for the submission of
bids.
(b)    Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay
the required fee.
(c)    Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit responsible for procurement
shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated value of the contract.
(d)    Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a
foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity for registering.
7.     Bid Security
Bid security, at the bidder's option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or bank guarantee from
a reputable bank.
- 84 -



8.    Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a)    Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids, and
if bids are invited in two envelopes, both envelopes (technical and price) shall be opened at the same time.
(b)    Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the bidding
documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder.
(c)    Bidders shall not be eliminated from  detailed evaluation on the basis of minor,
non-substantial deviations.
(d)    No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's estimate
and budget ceiling without the Association/Bank's prior concurrence.
9.    Reiection of Bids
(a)    All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Association/Bank's prior
concurrence.
(b)    When the number of responsive bids is less than three, rebidding shall not be carried out
without the Association/Bank's prior concurrence.
Unless otherwise agreed to in writing between the Republic of Indonesia and the Association/Bank,
these representations and assurances form an integral part of said Development Credit Agreement and Loan
Agreement.
It is our understanding that, in making the Credit/Loan, the Association/Bank may rely on the
statements set forth in this letter.
Very truly yours,
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
by
Authorized Representative
- 85 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan/credit/grant proceeds (Table C)
Table Cl: Allocation of IDA/IBRD Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in          Financing Percentage
US$ million
Works and goods (including     5.60                   90 %
specialized trucks but
excluding all other vehicles
for sub-project financed
under SLA)
Consultant Services            11.81                  100%
Front-End Fee                  0.12                   100%
Total IDA1IBRD Costs           17.53
1/ IDA Credit of SDR 4,600,000 converted at 1 SDR = US$ 1.26804 (March 31, 2001)
Table C2: Allocation of GEF Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in          Financing Percentage
US$ million"
Consultants' Services          0.38                   100%
Sub-grants                     2.16         100% of sub-grants disbursed
Total GEF Grant                2.54                    100
Total Cl + C2                  20.07
1/ GEF Trust Fund Grant of SDR 2,000,000 or above
Financial Management
The project is being implemented decentrally by local government units which are responsible for all
aspects of their sub-project. The government budgeting, accounting procedures and internal controls meet
the minimum standards required and will be followed in the project. During the last three years, only the
CPSU has had experience with implementing donor-financed projects. It will be responsible for
- 86 -



consolidating the project accounts based on monthly reports from the local governments. DGURD has
developed a Project Management Manual which sets out the procedures to be followed by participating
local governments; issuance of this manual, acceptable to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness.
At the local government level the effectiveness of internal control procedures is questionable and with the
lack of experience with the requirements of donors, it is necessary to conduct financial management
training for the staff of the participating units prior to effectiveness.
CPSU's quarterly Project Management Reports will form the basis for the projects annual accounts.
Auditing arrangement were agreed during negotiations and will be undertaken in accordance with the
Terms of Reference below.
Financial Management Action Plan
Issues                     Action                   Responsible      Due Date
Unit
1. Project     * Project management (procurement and    * DGURD      * October 1,
management    financial) training for project staff is part        2001
capacity       of Bridging Consultancy
2. Project     * PMM revised                            DGURD        * May 31, 2001
Management . PMM issued                                          . July 31, 2001
Manual      * Provision of TA to develop accounting              * September 30,
(PMM)         software is included in Bridging                   2001
Consultancy scope of works
3. Budget and  * LGU - 1st year budgets prepared      * LGUs         * Done
funding for  * CGU- revised 1st year budgets       * CGUs        * September 30,
1st year of                                                      2001
Project
4. Circular    * Draft SE for payment procedures to be    * DGURD    * Done
letter (SE)   sent to WBOJ after final GOI review
by DG         meeting
Budget      * DG Budget issued the SE              * DGB-MOF   * September 30,
2001
5. Audit       * draft audit TOR                      * DGURD        * Done
arrangement . Auditor assignment agreed                          * September 30,
2002
6.           . Program included in PIP/PAD/PMM       . DGURD/   . Done
Community/  * Fund mechanism to be defined in APLl   PMD           * During APLI
private        under TA Pusat 3-8 for implementation
sector         in APLs 2 and 3
participation
component
and activity
- 87 -



Audit
TERMS OF REFERENCE
for the Audit of Special Purpose Project Financial Statements
Objectives
The overall objectives of the audit are: (i) to enable the auditor to express a professional opinion
on the project financial statements, the operation of the overall financial management system including
internal controls, and compliance with financing agreements; (ii) to provide project management with
timely informnation on financial aspects of the project to enable follow-up action; and (iii) to assess the
achievements of the project objectives as measured by performance indicators.
The audit should cover the entire project, i.e., all sources and application of funds by all
implementing agencies. The auditor should visit the various implementation units and other agencies as
considered necessary for the audit.
Scope
The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing and
with the Audit Manual for World Bank Financed projects (July 1998). It will include such tests and
controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. Specific areas of coverage of the audit
will include the following:
(1)    an assessment of whether the project financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
consistently applied Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and give a true and fair view of the
operations of the project during the year and the financial position of the project at the close of the fiscal
year. Any material deviations from GAAP, and the impact of such departures on the project financial
statements as presented would be stated;
(2)    an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management systems. The financial
management system would include methods and records established to identify, assemble, analyze, classify,
record and report on transactions and to maintain accountability for the related assets and liabilities,
including internal controls. This would include aspects such as adequacy and effectiveness of accounting,
financial and operational controls, and any needs for revision; level of compliance with established policies,
plans and procedures; reliability of accounting systems, data and financial reports; methods of remedying
weak controls or creating them where there is none; verification of assets and liabilities; and integrity,
controls, security and effectiveness of the operation of the computerized system (if any);
(3)    an assessment of compliance with provisions of financing agreements, especially those relating to
accounting and financial matters. This would inter alia include verification that:
(a)    all external funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the relevant
fnancing agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for
which the financing was provided;
(b)    counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes of which they
- 88 -



were provided;
(c)    expenditures charged to the project are eligible expenditures and have been correctly
classified in accordance with the relevant financing agreement;
(d)    goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant financing
agreement;
(e)    all necessary supporting documents, records, and accounts have been kept in respect of all
project activities;
(f)    clear linkages exist between the accounting records including accounts books and the
Project Financial Statements;
(g)    where the Special Account has been used, it has been maintained in accordance with the
provisions of the relevant financing agreement;
(h)    statement of expenditures (SOE) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal
applications accurately reflect expenditures and activities on the project; and
(i)    project expenditures as reported by the project implementation agencies are reconciled with
the amounts withdrawn from the Special Account and the amounts deposited to the Special
Account are reconciled with the amounts disbursed from the IBRD Loan and IDA Credit; and
(4)    an assessment of the Project Management Report (PMR) and the achievements of the planned
results of the projects as measured by the performance indicators as stipulated in the relevant financing
agreement.
Project Financial Statements
Project Financial Statements shall be prepared by each LPSU whereas the consolidated project accounts
shall be prepared by PPSU (at provincial level) and CPSU for the whole project account, and should
include: (i) Annual Project Expenditures and Financing; and (ii) Cumulative Project Expenditures and
Financing. Sources of funds would show IDA/IBRD, GEF, and GOI counterpart funds separately. Project
expenditures would be summarized by main project components, disbursement categories and by project
location (province or kabupaten) both consolidated for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date. The
consolidated project account shall also include Financial Statement of Special Account covering: (i)
deposits and replenishments received from the Bank; (ii) withdrawals from the special account; and (iii) the
remaining balances at the end of the fiscal year.
The auditor should provide an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the Bank's procedures and the
exactitude of the balance of the Special Account at year-end. The audit should examine the eligibility and
integrity of financial transactions during the period under review and fund balances at the end of the period,
the operation and use of the special account in accordance with the financing agreement, and the adequacy
of internal financial controls.
Special Account: The auditor must assess a reconciliation report between the project expenditures
made from the special account and the withdrawals from the special account. Reconciliation should also be
made with the amounts paid from the pre-financing account and direct payments (if any). The auditor
should assess a reconciliation report between the amounts deposited to the special account and disbursed by
- 89 -



the World Bank to the special account.
Statement of Expenditures: The auditor is also required to audit all SOEs (paid from the special
account and/or other accounts) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal applications. The
auditor should apply such tests and control as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances.
These expenditures should be carefully compared for project eligibility with the relevant financing
agreements, and with reference to the Project Appraisal Document for guidance when necessary. Ineligible
expenditures identified as having been included in withdrawal applications and reimbursed by the World
Bank should be noted separately by the auditor. The total withdrawals under the SOE procedure should be
part of the overall reconciliation of Bank disbursements described above.
Audit Report
The audit report shall contain the auditor's opinion on the fairness of the project financial
statements, including an opinion on the Special Account and a separate paragraph commenting on the
accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under the SOE procedures and the extent to which the
Bank can rely on SOEs as a basis for loan disbursement. The report should refer to the auditor's TOR.
The auditor should submit the report to the project executing agency who should then promptly forward
one copy of the audited accounts and report to the Bank. It should be received by the Bank no later than sLi
months after the end of the project's fiscal year (June 30).
Management Letter
In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a management letter or include in the
report, in which the auditor will:
(a) give comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that were examined
during the course of the audit; and identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in systems and
controls and make recommendations for their improvement;
(b) give comments on economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the use of resources;
(c) report on the achievement of the planned results of the project;
(d) report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing agreement and
give comments, if any, on intemal and extemal matters affecting such compliance;
(e) communicate matters that have come to attention during the audit which might have a significant
imnpact on the implementation of the project; and
(f) any other matters that the auditor would consider pertinent.
General
The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and any other
information associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation should also be
obtained of amounts disbursed and outstanding at the Bank.
The auditor should be fanmiliar with the Bank's Audit Manualfor World Bank Financed Projects
which provide guidance to auditors conducting audits of World Bank financed projects.
- 90 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDONESIA: Westem Java Environmental Management Project
ProlPt Schedule                                   Ptanned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     8                            24
First Bank mission (identification)
Appraisal mission departure                     10/15/99                     11/12/2000
Negotiations                                   01/10/2000                   04/20/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  05/22/2000                   08/31/2001
Prepared by:
Government of Indonesia
Preparation assistance:
Japanese Government PHRD (TF29453)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Daniel Hoomweg                   Senior Environmental Engineer
Suhadi Hadwinoto                 Urban Development Specialist
Mohamad Nuch                     Operations Officer
Keiichi Tamaki                   Financial Analyst
Vivianti Rambe                   Environmental Specialist
Unggul Suprayitno                Financial Management Officer
Anne Harrison                    Program Assistant
Leila Elvas                      Financial Analayst
JoAnne Nickerson                 Operations Analyst
Rizal Rivai                      Procurement Specialist
Hilarion Bruneau                 Senior Financial Management Specialist
Karin Nordlander                 Senior Counsel
Finn Nielsen                     Senior Municipal Engineer
- 91 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDONESIA: Western Java Environmental Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
See Below
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Capacity Assessment Report, March 2001
C. Other
* The following documents were used as reference in preparation of the WJEMP, but are filed with
the Indonesia Third JABOTABEK Urban Development Project (LN. 3246-IND):
*  Assessment of Popular Participation of KIP-JUDP III (Draft Final Report)- Novemeber-1 994- 50pgs.
* Environmental Protection Component 2 Part A- Institutional Analysis and Strengthening Strategy
(Final Report)-Volume I-Institutional and Organizational- November 1994-10 Chapters (2 copies)
- Environmental Component 2 Part B-Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Strategy and
Action Plan (Inception Report) August -1993-39pgs. with cover letter from Ir. H. Muzahiem Mokhtar-
September 1, 1993- lpgs.
-   JUDP III Environmental Protection Component (B) small scale Industries Waste Reduction in DKI
Jakarta (Draft Final Report) Volume l(Text),- June 1993- 13 1pgs., Volume II (Appendices) June 1993
-   Environmental Protection Component (A) Joint Waste Water Treatment for Industrial Estates- Volume
IA, IB, Executive Summary, Volume II, Volume 3- June 1993
* JUDP III Evaluation Report Sub-project design and Implementation Pilot Project Resources Recovery-
October-1995- 20pgs.
The following documents are part of the official project file for WJEMP:
I. Inception Report, March 1998
II. Workshops Reports
*  Laporan Lokakarya, Serang, April 30, 1998
*  Laporan Lokakarya, Cirebon, May 6, 1998
* Laporan Lokakarya, Bandung, May 13, 1998
*  Laporan Lokakarya, Jabotabek, June 25, 1998
III. Action Plans
* Action Plan, Serang, September 1998
* Action Plan, Cirebon, September 1998
* Action Plan, Bandung, September 1998
* Action Plan, Jabotabek, September 1998
IV. Deliverables - April 1999 (Addendum 1)
- 92 -



*  Project Summary
*  Volume I Environmental Education for Schools
*  Volume 2 Community Environmental Facility (CFF)
*  Volume 3a.(i) Solid Waste Strategic Plan for Jabotabek
*  Volume 3a.(ii)Basic Design Leuwigajah Site Improvement, Bandung
*  Volume 3a.(iii)Basic Design, Kopilohur Landfill-Cirebon
*  Volume 3a.(iv)Brief Technical Evaluation, Bantar Gebang Landfill Extension
*  Volume 3b.(i) Waste Reduction in the Tahu Sector
*  Volume 3b.(ii)Waste Reduction in the Electro Plating Sector
*  Volume 3c.(i) Recommendations for Prokasih Program Cikapundung River,
Bandung & Ciliwung River, Jakarta/Bogor
*  Volume 3c.(ii) Ground Water Conservation Bandung, Project No.21
*  Volume 4 WJJEMP Project Management
*  Volume 5 Economic Analysis
*  Volume 6(i) Project Costing and Financial Table
*  Volume 6.(ii) Summary and Contract Procurement Packages
*  Volume 6.(iii) Financial Analysis
*  Volume 7 List of Priority Sub-Projects
V. Deliverables - September 1999 (Addendum 2)
*  Terms of Reference
*  TPA Kopiluhur Cirebon Environmental Review
*  Project Implementation Plan
*  Volume I Project Support
*  Volume II Solid Waste Management
*  Volume III Small/Medium Scale Industry Support
*  Volume IV Environmental Education and Awareness
*  Volume V Community Environment Facility
*  Volume VI Subproject Information
*  Volume VII-A Project Cost and Financing Plans
*  Volume VII-B Subproject Table "Base Cost"
*  Programmatic Environmental Review (Executive Summary)
*  Programmatic Environmental Review (Full Document)
VI. Deliverables - April 2000 (Addendum 3)
*  Project Implementation Plan
*  Project Environmental Review
*  Request for Proposal/RFP (English & Indonesia)
*  Sub-Project Mapping - June 2000
*  Clipping Environmental Issues - June 2000
*  Technical Assistance Table "Base Cost" - June 2000
TORs:
*  Study Environmental Degradation in Town of Bandung [English &
Indonesian]
- 93 -



* AMDAL for Cikapundung River Domestic Wastewater Facilities [English &
Indonesian]
* Productive Vegetation Study in Town of Bandung [English & Indonesia]
* Study for Monitoring Air Quality in Kota Bandung [Indonesia]
* Kampung Improvement Program CBD Tribina Kabupaten Bekasi [English &
Indonesia]
* Study of Town Vegetation - Bekasi [English & Indonesia]
*  AMDAL for TPA Cipayung [Indonesia]
* Study Normalization and Development of Lakes [Indonesia]
* Structuring and Vegetation of Cisadane Rivers Banks in The Town of Bogor
* Oriented on Agroindustry [English & Indonesia]
* Feasibility Study, AMDAL and DED for Domestic Waste Treatment (IPLT)
[Indonesia]
* AMDAL for TPA Kopiluhur Cirebon [English & Indonesia]
* Study of Vegetation Using Productive Plants to Empower
Economy-Kabupaten Serang [English & Indonesia]
* Improvement Environmental Sanitation for Low-Income Community (SPAL
MCK and Waste Facilities) in Kabupaten Serang [English & Indonesia]
Study for Urban Poor Area Upgrading, Industrial and Coastal Areas
Settlement [Indonesia]
* Based Solid Waste Management Reduce, Reuse, Recycle (3R) [English &
Indonesia]
* Feasibility Study for Jakarta Industrial Estate Pulogadung Centralized
Wastewater Treatment System [English & Indonesia]
*  Development of Commercial Scale Compost Plant [English & Indonesia]
*  Waste Minimization through Assistance to Waste Pickers in DKI Jakarta
[Indonesia]
*  West Java Solid Waste Management Consultant Support [English &
Indonesia]
* Platform Strategy Environmental Development in West Java [English]
* Central Project Management Unit Consultant Support [English & Indonesia]
* Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation Consultant Support [English]
* Environmental Education & Awareness [English]
* Air Quality Program for The Urban Areas of West Java and Jakarta [English]
* Cilegon Emergency Prearedness Program [English & Indonesia]
* Support to Small/Medium Scale Industries: Tahu/Tempe & Salted Fish
* Industries in North Jakarta.
Borrowing Capacitv:
* Borrowing Capacity DKI Jakarta - August 2000
* Borrowing Capacity Kota Bandung - August 2000
*  Borrowing Capacity Kabupaten Bandung - August 2000
* Borrowing Capacity Kota Bekasi - August 2000
* Borrowing Capacity Kabupaten Bekasi -August 2000
* Borrowing Capacity Kota Bogor - August 2000
* Borrowing Capacity Kota Depok - August 2000
-94 -



*  Borrowing Capacity Kota Tangerang - August 2000
*  Borrowing Capacity Kota Cirebon - August 2000
*  Borrowing Capacity Kabupaten Serang - August 2000
*  Project Cost by Component - September 2000
*  Dokumen Tender untak Pekerjaan Borongan/Local Competitive Bidding [Bill
of Quantity/BO] Paket Pembangunan TPA sampah Sanitary Landfill
Kopiluhur -/Cirebon
*  Dokumen Tender untuk Pekerjaan Borongan/Local Competitive Bidding
[Rencana Kera dan Syarat-syarat Teknis/RKS Teknis] Paket
Pembangunan-TPA Sampah Sanitary Landfill Kopiluhur - Cirebon
*  Dokumen Tender untuk Pekegoan Borongan/Local Competitive Bidding.
Paket Pengadaan Kendaraan Pengangkut Samnpah den Peralatan Penunjang,
untuk TPA
*  Dokumen Tender untuk Pekerjaan Boronganl Local Competitive Bidding
[Engineer Estimate/EE] Paket .... Pembangunan TPA Sampah Sanitary
Landfill Kopiluhur - Cirebon
*  Dokunnen Tender untuk Penigadaan Barang dan jasa/Local Competitive &
International Competitive Bidding. Paket A,B,C,D&E Pengadaan Kendaraan
Pengangkut Sampah den Peralatan Penunjang untuk TPA
*  Dokumen Tender untuk Pengadaan Barang dan Jasa/Local Competitive
Bidding. Paket D pengadaan Kendarsan Pengangkut Sampah den Peralatan
Penunjang untuk TPA
* Dokumen Tender untuk Pekerjaan Borongar-/Local Compepetitive Bidding
[Rencana Kerja den Syarat-syarat Umum/RKS Umum] Paket ...
Pembangunan TPA Sampah Sanitary Landfill Kopiluhur - Cirebon
  Tender Dokument for Procurement of Goods and Services
Intemational Competitive Bidding. Package A Procurement of Heavy Equipment
for The Final Disposal Site.
* Dokument Tender untuk Pengadaan Barang den Jasa Local Compepetitive
Bidding Paket C Pengadaan kendaraan Pengangkut Sampah dan peralatan
penunjang untuk TPA
*  Tender Document for Procurement of Goods and Services Intemational
Competitive Bidding Package B Procurement of Heavy Equipment for The Final
Disposal Site.
*Including electronic files
- 95 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDONESIA: Westem Java Environmental Management Project
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IiRO         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P059930        2000 DECNT. AGRICULTURALUFORESTRY EXTENSION             13.00       5.00                  0.00       0.00      16.66       3.74       0.00
P059477        2000 ID-WSSLIC II                                        0.00      77.40                  0.00       0.00      74.99       0.00       0.00
P049545        2000 ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH I                              0.00      38.00                  0.00       0.00      36.09       2.19       0.00
P055821        1999 ID-URBAN POVERTYPROJECT                             0.00     100.00                  0.00       0.00      31.64       1.11       0.00
P056074        1999 ID-MUNICIPAL INNOVATIONS PROJECT                    5.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       2.74       2.00       0.00
P041895        1999 ID-SULAWESI BASIC EDUC.                            47.90      15.93                  0.00       0.00      51.67      17.55       0.00
P036049        1999 ID-EARLY CHILD DEVELOPMENT                         21.50       0.00                  0.00       0.00      19.34      15.34      15.33
P040196        1999 ID-SUMATRABASICEDUCUATION                          54.50      20.10                  0.00       0.00      54.11       9.11       0.00
P003967        1999 ID-FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                            44.70       0.00                  0.00       5.00      29.42      11.00       0.00
P063732        1999 CORPORATE RESTRUCTRG                               31.50       0.00                  0.00      16.50       9.65      26.15       0.00
P064118        1999 WATSAL                                            300.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     250.00     250.00       0.00
P048715        1998 IIDP                                               34.50       0.00                  0.00       8.50      18.80      21.98      16.30
P045337        1998 ID-KECAMATAN DEV FUND                             225.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     133.97      52.93       0.00
P036956        1998 ID-SAFE MOTHERHOOD                                 42.50       0.00                  0.00       8.00       19.61      10.74      7.16
P039644        1998 ID-W. JAVA BASIC EDUCATION                        103.50       0.00                  0.00       3.76      50.46     -26.92       0.00
P040061        1998 BENGKULU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                      20.50       0.00                  0.00       0.00       18.93      7.53       0.00
P040062        1998 CORAL REEF MGMT REHA                                0.00       0.00                  4.10       0.00       2.08       1.77       1.42
P036048        1998 CORAL REEF MGM REHAB                                6.90       0.00                  4.10       0.00       4.14       3.81       3.21
P055755        1998 BANKING REFORM ASST.                               20.00       0.00                  0.00       0.90       6.42       7.32       0.00
P003993        1996 SUMATRA REG. ROADS                                234.00       0.00                  0.00      50.00     157.19      35.69       0.69
P036053        1997 IND-SULAWESI UDP II                               155.00       0.00                  0.00      67.05      20.19      82.24      -17.91
P041894        1997 ID-SUMATRA SECONDARY EDUCATION                     98.00       0.00                  0.00       0.03      30.37       -3.26      0.00
P042540        1997 ID-IODINE DEF. CONTROL                             28.50       0.00                  0.00       9.00       9.54       11.06     10.09
P049051        1997 BEPEKAAUDITMODERP                                  16.40       0.00                  0.00       0.90      10.38       9.04       7.10
P040195        1997 ID-QUALITY OF UNDERGRADUATE EDUC(QUE)              71.20       0.00                  0.00       9.89      30.57      13.76       4.21
P003700        1997 SOLAR HOMES SYSTEMS                                 0.00       0.00                 24.30       0.00      18.68      14.56       6.71
P003987        1997 ID-CENTRAL INDONESIA SEC. EDU.                    104.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      51.79      35.19       0.00
P036047        1997 IND-BALI URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT             110.00       0.00                  0.00      30.06      46.53      24.49       4.14
P004026        1997 RLWY EFFICIENCY                                   105.00       0.00                  0.00      20.00      79.31      81.98       0.00
P003978        1996 IND'LTECHNOLOGYDEV                                 47.00       0.00                  0.00       8.54       9.00       17.54     11.56
P004003        1998 ID-SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVT                   60.40       0.00                  0.00      30.00       2.42      32.12       0.76
P004004        1998 ID-HIGHER EDUC SUP.(PUE)                           65.00       0.00                  0.00       6.86       7.58       -3.56     -7.38
P004008        1996 NUSA TENGGARA DEV.                                 27.00       0.00                  0.00       4.90       5.45       6.19       -1.73
P004021        1998 POW. TRANS & DISTIl                               373.00       0.00                  0.00     163.71      18.56     182.27      18.14
P004016        1996 STRATEGIC URB. RDS I                               86.90       0.00                  0.00       10.00     24.66      30.16       9.65
P037097        1998 ID-E.JAVASEC.EDUC.                                 99.00       0.00                  0.00       3.63      37.76      18.02       0.00
P004014        1996 KERINCISEBLATICDP                                  19.10       0.00                 15.00       3.00       11.73      11.00      0.00
P004011        1996 SULAWESI AGRI AREA                                 26.80       0.00                  0.00       3.70       4.75        1.58      -4.27
P003699        1996 KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP                                 0.00       0.00                  15.00       0.00       9.26       4.63      0.00
P003988        1995 ID-BOOK & READING DEV                             132.50       0.00                  0.00      36.50      42.85      76.18      42.69
P039754        1995 IND-TAP41-2                                        28.00       0.00                  0.00        3.00       9.33      12.33      5.56
P003951        1995 IND-KALIMANTAN UDP                                136.00       0.00                  0.00       18.04      16.26     34.30      16.30
P003972        1995 AG. RESEARCH II                                    63.00       0.00                  0.00      22.10       11.25      32.35      2.30
P003984        1995 LANDADMINISTRATION                                 80.00       0.00                  0.00      33.90       0.25      34.15      17.65
P004001        1995 TELECOM SECTOR MODER                              325.00       0.00                  0.00      69.67      90.33      160.00    110.00
P003988        1995 ID-PHRD II                                         69.00       0.00                  0.00       12.00       8.89      20.07     11.73
P003890        1994 IND-SEMARANG SURAKARTA UDP                        174.00       0.00                  0.00       40.07      23.10      63.17     13.45
P004010        1994 DAM SAFETY                                         55.00       0.00                  0.00       19.80       3.98     23.78       -0.07
P003910        1994 SUMATERA & KALIMAN P                              260.50       0.00                  0.00      56.00      34.36       90.36     94.70
P003945        1994 HIGHWAY SECTOR II                                 380.00       0.00                  0.00      46.00      38.58      84.58      -12.09
P003954        1994 JAVA IRR IMP&WRM                                  165.70       0.00                  0.00      41.17      15.42      56.59      34.58
Total:     4536.00      256.43               62.50      862.18     1711.07    1709.91     422.16
-96 -



INDONESIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1993/96            PTBBLDharmala                  11.35    0.00    0.00    21.40    11.35    0.00     0.00   21.40
1995               PT Bakrie Pipe                 17.14    0.00    9.50     0.00    17.14    0.00     9.50    0.00
1997/00            PT Bank NISP                    0.00    5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               PT Berlian                      9.29   20.00     0.00    27.09    8.15   16.65     0.00   23.57
1995               PT Bunas Finance                5.54    0.00    0.00     1.45    5.54    0.00      0.00    1.45
1996               PT Dharmala                    20.00    0.00    0.00    10.00   20.00    0.00      0.00   10.00
1995               PT Grahawita                    0.00    0.00     5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00
1995               PT Hotel Santika                3.78    0.00    0.00     0.00    3.78    0.00      0.00    0.00
1991               PT Indaci                       0.00    0.00     1.83    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.44    0.00
1990/91/93/95/99   PT Indo-Rama                    0.00    3.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.09      0.00    0.00
1992/94/96         PTKIAKeraniik                  16.51    6.02    0.00    53.49    16.51    6.02     0.00   53.49
1995               PT KIA Serpih                  15.00    6.24    0.00    49.50    15.00    6.24     0.00   49.50
1997               PTKalimantan                   20.00    15.00    0.00    6.00   15.56   15.00    0.00    4.67
1997/00            PT Makro                        0.00    1.22    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               PT Megaplast                    8.75    2.50    0.00     0.00    8.75    2.50      0.00    0.00
1993               PTNusantara                     3.18    0.00    0.00    10.38    3.18    0.00      0.00   10.38
1994               PT PAMA                         0.00    0.71     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.71      0.00    0.00
1996               PT Pramindo Ikat               25.00    8.18   25.00    59.50   25.00    3.91    25.00   59.50
1991               PTRIMBA                         1.51    0.60    0.00     0.45     1.51    0.60     0.00    0.45
1993               PT Samudera                     0.00    5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997               PT Sayap                       10.00    0.00    0.00    12.00   10.00    0.00      0.00   12.00
1992/95            PT Viscose                     23.59    0.00    0.00    29.46   23.59    0.00    0.00   29.46
1997               PT Wings                        8.68    0.00    0.00    12.79    8.68    0.00    0.00   12.79
1994               Prudential Asia                 0.00    4.80    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.24    0.00    0.00
1991               SEAVI Indonesia                 0.00    1.43    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00
1980/87            Semen Andalas                   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Ciluluk Village                 0.04    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               KDLC Bali                       2.08    1.14    0.00     0.00    2.08     1.14    0.00    0.00
1991               LYON-MLF-Ibis                   2.01    0.00     0.00    2.01     2.01    0.00    0.00    2.01
1988               Manulife                        0.00    0.32    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1995               POF                             5.14    1.93    0.00     6.00    5.14    1.93    0.00    6.00
1995               PT ABS Finance                  0.00    1.31    0.00     0.00     0.00    1.31    0.00    0.00
1997               PT AdeS Alfindo                 3.41    3.53     0.00    5.90    3.41    3.53    0.00    5.90
1989               PT Agro Muko                    0.00    2.20    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.20    0.00    0.00
1997               PT Alumindo                    17.98    0.00     0.00    16.00    17.98    0.00    0.00   16.00
1991               PT Argo Pantes                  9.38    13.00    0.00    11.36    9.38   13.00    0.00   11.36
1989/91/94         PT Astra                        0.00    5.82     0.00    0.00    0.00    5.82    0.00    0.00
1997               PT Astra Graphia                0.00    2.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1997               PT Astra Otopart                0.00    1.07    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       239.36   112.52   41.33   334.78   233.76   95.71    40.94  329.93
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               PT Petrosea                       15.00      8.20      1.80      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        15.00      8.20       1.80     0.00
- 97 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDONESIA: Westem Java Environmental Management Project
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &      Low- 
Indonesia    Paciflt   Income       Development diamond-
Population. mid-year tmittions)                       207.0    1t837       2417                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      580      1,000       410
GNP (AtlAs methood US$ billionsJ                      t20.1      1,83l       988
Average artnual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           1.6       1.2        1.9
Labor force (%)                                          2.7       1.3       2Z3      GNP                               Gross
Most recent estimate (latet year avallable, 19S3-99)                                  capita                        enroiiment
Poverty (f% of population below national poverty line)   20
Urban population t% of total population)                 35         34        31
Life expectancV at birth tyears                          65         69       680
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 43         35        77
Child malnutrition t% of childrep unde'r 5               34         22        43                 Access to safe water
Acces to imoroved water source (% of Dopu/ation)        62         84        64
Illiteracy (%o population age 15+)       i               14         15        39
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age populafion)    113        119        96                   Indonesia
Mate                                                  115        121       102               -  Low-income group
Female                                                110        121        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     19S9       1S9S      1999S
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ bit/ions)                            55.1    101,5       98.8      151.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 24.8     291        20.0       13.1
Exports of goods and sorvices/GODP            30.6     25.1       81.2      349                       Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    32.8     32.8       29,4      21.0
Oross national savinas/GDP                             23.9       24.9       13.9                        T
Current account balance/GOP                             -1.6       4.7       4.2      D
Interest payments/GOP                          1.9      33         5.7       4 8      DoSmastic v-.C+l-             Inestment 
Total debt/GDP                                33.8     58.5      152,7      97,5      Savings                       m
Total debt servie/exports                              37.5       34.7      37.9
Present valuo of debtGDP                                 1. 46.4                 1                      1
Present value of debt/ex0orts                             .      264 2984.
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989.90     1998       1909   1939-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                   6.0      53      -13.0      0o3        34               -     Indonesia
GNP or capdta                         3.9      3.4    -17.8        0.4        2.6             -L ow-income group
Exports of goods and services         1.4      6.9      112      -31.6        7.7                                             11
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   27.3      21.7      17.0       17.3
Industry                                      37.7     38.3       42.7      43.1320
Manufacturinq                                11.7     19.7      24.1       25.4      0
Services                                      35.0     40.0       40.3      39.6    -20       9
Private consumption                           57.6     58.5       65.1      72.5    .40
General aovernment consumption                 9.5      8.7        5.5        6.5                -    GD      -    GDP
Imports of goods and services                 22.6     21.4       41.7      26.9 9                             _
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    3.4       2.5      -0.7        2.1    40
Industrv                                       6.5      7.2      -14.0        1.2    20
Manufacturina                                13.0      8.2      -114        2.6      0
Services                                       7.0       4.7     -16.4       -1.4                  95   96 57
.20
Private consumption                            6.5       7.3      -6.3        3.7    40
General government consumption                 5.3      0.8      -15.4        0.7
Gross domestic investment                      6.7       3.9     -34.6      -20.0    |0
Imports of goods and services                  1.8      8.5       -5.3      -40.7              - Exports       m mports
Gross national Product                         5.9      5.1      -16.5        2.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 98 -



Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(1% change)
Consumer prices                                       6.4       58.5     20.5     75-
Implicit GDP deflator                       33.6    10.0       81.2      12.8      so                          /
Government finance                                                                25 -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                o
Current revenue                                      17.1       15.1     16.3             94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                                -3.9       0.5      2.8                   GDP denator    o  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -3.2     -1.5
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                23,833    48,354   55,546    60,000
Fuel                                               9,340     7,424    10,256
Rubber                                              952      1420      1229     40                             * 
Manufactures                                       7,669    23,322   26,281
Total imports (ciO                             ..  19,624    33,778   35,945
Food                                                521      1284      1,787    20,co_
Fuel and energy                                    3,146     3,122    3,958
Capital goods                                      5,904     6,388    3,366
93  94  95  99  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       83
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       87                                      * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                      25,460    52,722   59,317      6
Imports af goods and services                      19,675    41,060   41,972_
Resource balance                                    5.785    11,662   17,345      4
Net income                                          -2,920    -8,066   -10,958    2
Net current transfers                               -4,464     1,013      -99
Current account balance                             -1.599     4,609    6,288                                   99  99
Financing items (net)                               1,847    -3,140    -2,836
Changes in net reserves                              -248    -1,469    -3,452    .4.
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..   26,169   31,221
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)           623.1  1,770.1  10,013.6  7,405.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      18,624   59,402   150,875   147,435                       A. 11,578
IBRD                                       739    8,542    10,692    11,578             G: 20,941         8 s82
IDA                                        525      854       694      682
Total debt service                         3,065    9,833    18,967   23,225
IBRD                                        95    1.134      1,456    1,584                                        9,083
IDA                                          4       15        26        29
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            137      214       255
Official creditors                         555    2,935     2,696         .r  E: 32c054
Private creditors                           99       80    -3,653         0
Foreign direct investment                  226      682      -356                  F 6400794 5
Portfolio equity                             0      199       250
World Bank program
Commitments                                815    2,007      1,672    1,693     A - ISRO                    E - Bislaeral
Disbursements                              229    1,258      1,212    1,506     B - IDA    D - Other muljlateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                        24      481       754       785     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                  205      777       458       721
Interest payments                           76      667       728       845
Net transfers                              130      109      -270      -124
Development Economics and EASPR
99 -






107                              INDONESIA
Java Sea                                         WESTERN JAVA ENVIRONMENTAL
SUMATERA                                                                                  MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT REGENCLES                  0     KOTA/KOTAMADYA CAPITALS                  MAIN RIVERS
PROJECT CiTIES                     0     KABUPATEN (DISTRICTi CAPITALS            OTHER RiVERS
*     EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS SUB-PROJECT    0   PROPINSI (PROVINCE) CAPITAL             SELECTED KOTAMADYA BOUNDARIES
NATiON  CAPITAL                         KABUPATEN (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
PROPINSI IPROVINCE) BOUNDARIES'
CAMftwO --JABOTABEK IBOUNDARY
Cii  ~~~~~          DKI JAKARA                                                                               'Sm*on Pro~mcomd 6,  kx6mm
/Se an9@Sgnsa   ~~c 
,  ~~    f   ,       ~OTigorki                              raan                                        1  4J 3   .      5 ibronolyu
Pandeglango          '                           fOf         R
Ran.konbitug rCS
*-  /)-~~~'   ^ u  '%   '~~'  'i\(     l3   Purwakcirta 
<K   )                                  Qk.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sumber
Cianjur                                          o Sajmedngng
X 'S{  ,   ,                       V  whb                     eumedang          Mcialengka
K. r~ Sukabumi                                                                                        *Kuningan
Indian Ocean
Garut
0_  !  ...    .    @>   Ciamis
,t "VP -m POPWW    Mv &*VP 0*.f nm wbM ftil. 710                                                            Tasikmvlaya          *Banjar'
iit3,0I_nArihfqWjna   .      .                                    -         - -      -
tw^9   dorimtmy, or V  Xk___ ,
V }w vYBUNE~~             \nJ   kpJIIPPIN'ES
<  sA  \ >.M A L AY_ s)J A ;  Y         \ s  PACIFIC  OCEAN
"z \   -8t3^NGAPORE   -           mcji2   ')_
K                    Pi,g<,-           C     5t,o  ^
I Nr          N   E                                                            0       2 /t
AREA OF MAP:2-<  n No
OCI                                                           ICLMTR
INDIAN OCEAN                      -                                                                          0           20           40           60?MIES
8  m  >tRRALIA  ,,! I



