Report No. PID5398
Project Name                     Indonesia-Western Java Environmental (APL)(@)
Management Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Urban Environment;
Pollution Control / Waste Management
Project ID                       IDPE40528
Supplemental Project             IDPE68051
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF SETTLEMENTS AND REGIONAL
INFRASTRUCTURE
Directorate General of Urban and Rural
Development
Address: Jl.Patimura No. 20, Jakarta,
Indonesia
Contact Person: Ir. Budiman Arief, Director
General of Urban and Rural
Development
Tel: 62-21-72-79-6155
Fax: 62-21-72-79-6155
Email:
BAPPENAS (National Development Planning
Agency)
Address: Jl. Madiun No. 4-6, 3rd Floor,
Jakarta, Indonesia
Contact Person: Mr. Dedi M. Masykur Riyadi,
Deputy of Regional and Natural
Resources
Tel: 62-21-334-819
Fax: 61-21-310-1921
Email: sudjana@bappenas.go.id
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 11, 2001 (Revision)
Projected Appraisal Date         November 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 7, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The sector is defined here as "urban environment and pollution and waste
management". The main issues are:a) high levels of air and water
pollution from many sources, especially solid waste, vehicle emissions,
industrial and residential waste water; b) low public awareness about the
health impacts of urban pollution and ways to address it;c) inadequate
enforcement of existing, appropriate regulations and incorrect pricing for
services and "violations" of rules;d) institutional weaknesses at all
levels, unclear roles of each level, and thus poor coordination, resulting



in poor service delivery;e) inadequate capital investment to keep up with
population and waste growth; f) low human resource capacity; andg)
insufficient recurrent budgets, linked to poor cost recovery, resulting in
inadequate private sector participation and overall inefficiency.The main
issues in the sector are well studied and documented in the following
reports:Indonesia Environment and Development: Challenges for the Future
(Report No. 12083-IND, 1994) This report provides a comprehensive analysis
of environmental challenges facing Indonesia, as well as their causes,
impacts, the costs and ways to finance remediation, and a priority action
list. The report provides order of magnitude estimates which are
sufficient to identify the highest priority issues, namely, water supply
and sanitation, solid waste management, vehicle emissions and industrial
pollution control particularly in Java. Private Sector Participation in
Solid Waste in Indonesia (Informal Sector Report, 1995) This report
summarizes barriers to greater private sector participation in waste
management activities (e.g., lack of technical knowledge, inadequate
planning and contract periods being too short) and suggests ways to
improve service delivery through the judicious use of private firms,
largely through increased competition, accountability and
transparency.Community Based Composting and Recycling Pilot Project
(1996) Through the Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social
Development, the Bank carried out six integrated pilots under three Bank
urban projects (in Sulawesi, Bali, and East Java). The pilot projects
provided many lessons (e.g., the community's enthusiasm and technical
feasibility), and were successful in highlighting the potential for
community involvement in waste management activities.Jabotabek
Environmental Management Strategy (1995) Funded by the Third Jabotabek
Urban Development Project, this comprehensive report reviewed the causes
of environmental degradation in Jabotabek (economic and technical review)
and prioritized activities to respond to the environmental degradation.
This study was part of a similar exercise (assisted by the UNDP Municipal
Environmental Improvement Program) carried out in Kuala Lumpur, Manila,
Bombay, Katmandu, and Beijing, and is the basis of this project. Other
Reports During project preparation, five studies/reports were prepared:
(a) Community-Based Solid Waste Management, May 1998; (b) A Rapid
Appraisal of Industrial Pollution Abatement in Semarang Indonesia - Issues
and Opportunities, September 1998; (c) Review of the Kampung Improvement
Program - Evaluation in Jakarta, September, 1998; (d) Evaluation of the
Sanitation Component of KIP JUDP3, July 1996; and (e) Assessment of
Popular Participation of KIP JUDP3, June 1995. These reviews highlighted
the complexity of community involvement in urban environmental activities
and the clear need to bridge community demands and local government
capabilities. Preparation of the JUDP3 ICR also highlighted the need for
local government "ownership" and management of project implementation, as
well as the beneficial impact of community involvement. Two other reports
were prepared by the Bank's Environment and Social Unit in 1999: (a) A
Review of Landfills in Indonesia, and (b) Environmental Management Plan
Implementation in Indonesia: Review of Selected Urban Projects. Both
reports highlighted the difficulties in ensuring that landfills are
operated properly and recommended greater community involvement and more
attention to operations.
2. Objectives
The APL1, to be implemented over 40 months, will:    (a) lay the strategic
framework which will form the institutional and community foundation for
-2 -



sustainable environmental waste management among the participating local
and provincial governments; (b) prepare detailed designs for the
investments to be implemented mostly during the subsequent two phases; and
(c) form the basis for reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions by
establishing commercial scale compost production.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is well positioned to assist GOI in meeting the objectives of
the proposed project. The broad scope, and multi-jurisdictional nature of
this project require a concerted and long term effort involving investment
finance, assistance in practical management methods, and complementary
research activities. Under the Bank-supported Bandung City Development
Strategy (CDS) the city identified overall environmental quality
improvement as a priority. The project will benefit from the
collaborative involvements by the community, and various bilateral and
multi-lateral agencies (e.g., World Bank, ADB, JBIC, USAID and GTZ) under
the city's coordination. The Bank has considerable experience in urban
environmental management in Indonesia, as well as international
experience, both of which will be required to maximize the impact of this
project. The Bank is also active at all three levels of government --
central, provincial and local -- and all are involved in the project. The
Bank's widespread presence in Indonesian urban areas will allow relatively
rapid replication of successful components. The Bank is also able to
provide an integrated approach to municipal management activities. For
example the project has two main subcomponents (environmental education
and compost marketing) incorporated within other existing Bank-financed
projects such as the West Java Education Project (Ln. 4308-IND) and the
Decentralized Agricultural/Forestry Extension Project (Ln. 45100, Cr.
3280-IND), which is training farmers in the appropriate use of fertilizers
and compost. The Bank will assist GOI in establishing international
linkages between secondary schools for the design and monitoring of the
project's performance indicators to ensure that they are relevant.
Assistance from the GEF will help Indonesia establish itself an
internationally reknown "center of excellence" for composting application
and research, in addition to large scale exploration on how best to make
composting an integral component of an overall municipal waste management
strategy. The GEF funds will make it possible to further reduce GHG
emissions as well as to provide an incentive to establish a better overall
waste management system. GEF support is essential (a) to overcome the
barriers to the world's first large-scale GEF supported composting
program, particularly its start-up costs and perceived risks; and (b) to
support independent scientific monitoring, evaluation, and dissemination
to demonstrate the system's global and local benefits and
cost-effectiveness, and thus promote its replication. Contact has been
established with a successful compost marketing operation in India, and
the project will explore this operation during the first year. Each local
government will keep account of their earned carbon credits for the amount
of compost produced. The Bank will during project implementation assist
GOI to find markets for these credits. The Bank will endeavor to bring
international experience into the project. One such example would be the
replication of a successful waste-picker assistance program in Brazil,
where poor families are paid scholarships (Bolsa Escola) to keep children
in school; this should be readily transferable to Indonesia. The transfer
of this knowledge will go both ways, and Indonesia should be able to
export some of its composting acumen. The project will also facilitate the
-3 -



establishment of an international panel of compost/waste management
experts to provide assistance to Indonesia and help transfer technically
sound information.
4. Description
APL1 is largely focused on making managerial improvements, ensuring
adequate planning and community participation, and carrying out detailed
engineering design of subsequent components, particularly for landfills
(TPAs), wastewater treatment and septage treatment facilities (IPLTs). As
APL1 "sets the stage" for APL2 and APL3, efforts were made to minimize
large civil works and equipment procurement in order to maximize policy
development and capacity building first. In addition to broad-based policy
reforms, e.g., annual community-vetted environmental reporting, public
advisory boards, regional waste disposal options, and compost support,
some activities with tangible and immediate environmental benefits are
also included in APL1.    The GEF grant will support the development of
viable compost production and marketing sytems.     The GEF component has
two parts. First, GEF will provide some US$2,156,000 for a program to
provide grants to the producers of additional compost from municipal solid
waste in the project area. This program will be designed under one of the
project's technical assistance packages and will be submitted for Bank
approval before proceeding. Once approved, the program will be
administered by the Environmental Management Agency (Bapedal).     Second,
GEF will provide about $300,000, to be used for independent reviews of
compost quality, production levels, and to assist in marketing. A total
of $10 million has been approved by GEF, to be disbursed in approximately
equal parts in APL1, 2, and 3.
1. Overall Urban Environmental Management
2. Solid Waste Management
3. Community and Private Sector Participation
4. Composting Support-GEF
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 22.74
6. Implementation
The project will be carried out in accordance with the Project Management
Manual, acceptable to the Bank. Issuance by DGURD of the Project
Management Manual is a condition of effectiveness. The Manual will be
written in Bahasa Indonesia and will include a description of procurement
procedures (including a letter on national competitive bidding procedures)
and standard documentation, reporting requirements, financial management
procedures including audit procedures, the project's performance
indicators, and the environmental criteria applicable to project and
subproject design. Key implementation rests with the PLGs. Central
government support will be provided mainly for technical support,
coordination and monitoring, plus assistance with legislative and policy
changes. Since the activities under this project transcend any single
ministry, the Ministries of Finance, Home Affairs, Environment, Industry,
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure, and BAPPENAS (the National
Planning Development Agency) established a Project Coordination and
Steering Committee to oversee project issues at the central government
level during project preparation. After project effectiveness, the role
of this Project Coordination and Steering Committee will change to that of
- 4 -



a review committee and will be known as the Project Coordination and
Review Committee.    The Project Coordination and Review Committee will be
responsible for: (a) reviewing and disseminating best practice and
lessons learned among the PLGs; (b) review of the semi-annual progress
reports by the Central Program Support Unit (CPSU); and (c) review of the
PLGs' annual State of the Environment reports being prepared under the
overall urban environment management component (see Annex 2 for details).
The members of the Project Coordination and Review Committee will be
selected as a condition of effectiveness.    The PLGs would be supported by
the CPSU, which would represent DKI Jakarta, West Java Province, Bapedal
(National Environmental Impact Management Agency), and the Ministry of
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure (MSRI).    (Banten Province will not
be represented in the CPSU at project start-up because it was established
as a province only during appraisal, and its cadre was not identified. As
and when it achieves the capacity to operate at normal strength, its
representation will be reviewed.) Establishment of the CPSU, satisfactory
to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness.    The CPSU will support the
Project Coordination and Review Committee's review each PLG's annual State
of the Environment Report. These reports would be compiled by the CPSU
and made available to the public in Bahasa Indonesia. The CPSU will
implement the central government components and will provide assistance to
the provincial and local governments.    At the provincial level, each
province will establish a Provincial Program Support Unit (PPSU),
satisfactory to the Bank, as a condition of effectiveness.     The PPSU will
be composed of members from the provincial sector units and will report to
the Governor. Its role is to supervise the implementation of provincial
level components, and to coordinate between the CPSU and the LPSU. At the
local level, each PLG will pass a council resolution supporting its
participation in the project and agreeing to public consultation on
environmental indicators and targets, and reporting mechanisms for annual
progress on these targets, as a condition of effectiveness. In addition,
each PLG must establish a Local Program Support Unit (LPSU), satisfactory
to the Bank, as a condition of effectiveness. The LPSU will be located in
the local development planning agency (Bappeda-II). It will be headed by
the chief administrative officer (sekwilda) and will report to the city
chief executive (walikota) or distict chief executive (bupati), who in
turn report to the DPRD.    The resolution serves as a statement of the
PLG's intention to participate in the project through to completion and to
execute its responsibilities under the implementation program in Annex 5
of the DCA, in accordance with the Project Management Manual.     PLG
commitments include under the implementation program include the
following:(a) At least four PLGs will prepare an annual State of the
Environment Report and furnish it to the CPSU and the Bank not later than
March 31, 2002, and the remaining local governments will prepare and
submit annual State of the Environment Reports no later than March 31,
2003; (b) The PLGs will have their annual State of the Environment
Reports evaluated by an independent team, acceptable to the Bank, not
later than July 31 each year, starting in 2002;(c) PLGs which do not have
an Environment Forum that is part of an existing urban forum, should
establish an Environment Forum by July 31, 2002;(d) All PLGs operate
landfills will select at least one landfill and establish for that
landfill, not later than December 31, 2003, a neighborhood advisory
committee to advise the PLG on the performance of the agency responsible
for the landfill; (e) GOI shall furnish to the Bank for approval a program
to foster good quality compost production, and will make sub-grants
- 5 -



available in accordance with the agreed program;(f) For PLGs with
investment subprojects, the PLG will issue land acquisition and
resettlement guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and(g) For PLGs with
investment subprojects, the PLG will select and prepare subprojects using
technical, financial, economic, environmental and social criteria
acceptable to the Bank. Composting. The compost grants will be
administered by Bapedal through a relatively simple program whereby
compost producers will be provided grants upon proof of production
(submission of receipts which are randomly audited). The project will
support the establishment of a Compost Advisory Team with roots in an
already established association of compost specialists. This team will
randomly test compost quality and verify the independent audit reviews of
compost use (e.g., field checks). They will also assist with market
development and disseminate the results. The nascent compost (and
vermi-compost) marketing association will be assisted, as will
independent, local NGOs to provide community education and verification of
composting activities. It is planned that an international bi-annual
composting trade fair and conference will be held in Indonesia.Monitoring
and Evaluation Arrangements: The CPSU will be responsible for overall
project monitoring based on reports from the PPSUs and the LPSUs. The
CPSU will monitor the status of contracts on a monthly basis. These
results will be summarized every six months and presented to the Project
Coordination and Review Committee. Every year, an "Environmental Update"
will be prepared by the Review Committee. This document will be composed
of the "State of the Environment" reports prepared by all PLGs. The
Environmental Update will be discussed publicly, at an annual
"environmental forum" (see section E, para. 5.4) to which the media,
community representatives, political leaders, and government staff will be
invited. The discussions will include a summary of how local environments
are improving or deteriorating. Project impact data will largely be
collected by local secondary schools (as part of the CPSU TA). Collection
of this data will be integrated with the Environmental Awareness and
Environmental Education TAs. The project's Project Coordination and
Review Committee will disseminate lessons across PLGs. For centrally
implemented components, the Directorate General of Urban and Rural
Development (DGURD) within MSRI, will be responsible for monitoring
project accounts (in addition to consolidating local government
accounts). Bapedal will be responsible for reviewing and monitoring
progress of technical studies and GEF funds allocation. Bank headquarters
and resident office staff would jointly supervise project implementation
twice a year, with very intensive efforts in the first 18 months following
effectiveness. The WJEMP will not have a formal mid-term review due to
the forty-month implementation schedule. However, to prepare for the
appraisal of APL2, it will be necessary to collect information on the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities. GOI will prepare and
furnish to the Bank by July 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of
the monitoring and evaluation activities, and review the report with the
Bank by September 30, 2003. GOI and the Bank will decide upon a course of
action to remedy any problems needing correction. Only PLGs which meet
the "triggers" will be included in APL2. Within six months of the closing
of the project, the CPSU would furnish an implementation completion report
to the Bank, reviewing project achievements against objectives, including
costs incurred and benefits derived, as well as the performance and
contribution of all parties associated with project execution.     Financial
Management System: A Financial Management System (FMS), satisfying the
- 6 -



Bank's requirements under OP/BP 10.02 and the LACI (Loan Administration
Change Initiative) standards, will be established under the project. The
project accounting system and procedures will follow the government's
accounting system. The PMUs will be responsible for maintaining the
accounting records (under the supervision of the CPSU) on a cash basis,
and for keeping all the supporting documents for annual audits.
Consolidated project accounts will be prepared by the CPSU for the annual
audit, and the audit opinions shall be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the end of each FY. Issuance of a Project Management Manual,
acceptable to the Bank, and documenting the FMS and procedures, is a
condition of effectiveness. The manual will include control, accounting
and disbursement procedures, project management reporting (PMR), and
auditing arrangements (detailed in Annex 6). A Special Account in the
amount of US$1.75 million, will be in the custody of the Directorate
General of Budget, MOF, and will be held in Bank Indonesia. The Special
Account for the GEF grant will be US$250,000 and will also be managed by
the same Directorate within MOF. The Bank financial management specialist
assessed the financial management system, including disbursement, audit
arrangements and human resources capacity at the national, provincial and
district levels and found that they met the Bank's requirements after
implementation of the agreed action plan.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of solid waste management improvements depends on the
ability to increase the funds available for operations. This will be
accomplished through greater cost recovery for waste collection,
particularly through licensing arrangements with the private sector for
collection of business waste, improved collection of tariffs and tipping
fees, successful development and operation of the Jabotabek and Bandung
Waste Disposal Corporations, and greater transparency of service delivery
and associated charges. Sustainability in management improvement depends
largely on the leadership and professionalism shown by local government
representatives, as well as commensurate improvements to working
environments, especially salaries. Another important management area is
improved relations between the three levels of government -- central,
provincial, and local. During project implementation, especially APL1, all
levels of government will be refining their roles, resource allocations,
and staff salaries and accountabilities. Sustainability needs to be
predicated on a transparent and reliable government structure.
Sustainability is also conditional on local governments assuming, and
being empowered to assume, responsibility for activities such as waste
disposal. There are no significant technical issues, though care is needed
to ensure adequate training and operating budgets and thorough review of
medical waste and composting proposals. Another important role of the GEF
funds is to encourage composting on a scale that enables Indonesia to
claim to be a world leader in composting.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Similar projects such as JUDP3, provide important lessons: (a) working
with DKI Jakarta is considered difficult by the neighboring, less affluent
and less powerful municipalities; (b) the Jabotabek Environmental Strategy
(funded under JUDP3) is technically very good, but based on an internal
Bank review, its implementation strategy had the least amount of
stakeholder involvement and follow-through compared to the other five
Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Projects cities (Kuala Lumpur,
- 7-



Manila, Bombay, Katmandu, Beijing). A clear lesson is that stakeholder
involvement, local institutional ownership and meaningful and sustained
dialogue are critical for the long-term success of environmental projects
in Indonesia. These findings were corroborated by OED's impact evaluation
report entitled, "Enhancing the Quality of Life in Urban Indonesia: The
Legacy of Kampung (Village) Improvement Program",    (Report 14747-IND)
which found that targeted urban sector development can have a very
positive impact on low income areas and that the majority of residents
experienced environmental improvement through neighborhood programs. This
came about largely when local governments acted as facilitator, and a
respectful partnership was established between the local government and
civil society. Project assistance to Bapedal also highlights the need for
the involvement of other stakeholders to enhance agency accountability and
to help sustain minimum requirements for operating funds. (This means
moving away from a "project-to-project" operating style). Integrated Urban
Infrastructure Development Projects (IUIDP) have had considerable success
in improving municipal service delivery; however they are not appropriate
for operations such as WJEMP that involve technically complex investments,
that span several administrative jurisdictions, and that require a
planning horizon over five years. Another lesson from the IUIDPs is that
the development effectiveness of the investments depends critically on the
existence of appropriate sub-sector policies. The ongoing Bali Urban
Infrastructure Project (Ln. 4155-IND) is providing useful input on the
establishment of regional waste management corporations, and the process
of government consultation has been incorporated.A clear lesson has
emerged from the ongoing Second Sulawesi Urban Development Project (Ln.
4105-IND). The objective of infrastructure development can be met more
easily than the objective of "improving urban management" through an
investment project. This is mostly due to two broad issues: (a) DGURD
and the local government's prime focus is often on awarding contracts; and
(b) longer term and broader institutional changes need better municipal
management, e.g., adequate pay based on measurable outputs, connecting
community wants with ability to pay, building partnerships that transcend
single departments or local governments. Although management improvements
are more difficult to achieve and measure than infrastructure development,
improvements are possible and are already accruing to local governments
that show leadership. These skills and attitudes are transferable.Six
small scale composting facilities were previously established in Indonesia
through World Bank grants. They verified that composting is a practical
waste management option and highlighted the need for larger scale
marketing programs, and inclusion of avoided waste disposal collection and
disposal costs to ensure sustainability. Similarly, the Bank hosted an
international workshop in 1998 to explore ways in which urban waste could
be integrated with agricultural needs (also see the report by Michael
Sanio, Reuse of Urban Waste for Agriculture: An Investment Program for
Progressive Action, May 1998, Wasting Waste Conference).
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   As part of program preparation over 500 interviews
were carried out with a wide range of stakeholders, i.e., all levels of
government, NGOs, community groups, the private sector, universities, and
development institutions. Public workshops were held and advertisements
explaining the environmental objectives were placed in local newspapers. A
- 8 -



two-stage preparation process was used. First, existing information was
reviewed and key urban environment needs, specific to each community, were
identified. After stage 1 was agreed-to by the program Steering Committee,
more detailed preparation activities took place. Unique preliminary
environmental management strategies for each participating community were
prepared, as was an overall policy matrix for improved environmental
management. Both project preparation reviews and previous country
experience confirm that, with respect to the urban environment services
being targeted by the program, e.g., solid waste management and air and
water pollution, the most important requirement is improving the
management of service delivery. Therefore a three-phase adaptable program
loan was proposed where APL1 would focus heavily on required policy
development and management improvements. Making these improvements would
be a pre-requisite (trigger) for construction of any facilities in APL2.
Therefore a broader "Programmatic Environmental Review" (PER) was prepared
during project preparation, rather than a specific environmental
assessment for sub-projects.    The PER identified potential environmental
impacts in the program, most of which occur in APL2 and APL3, from
landfills, hospital waste facilities, compost operations, and waste water
treatment facilities. During negotiations, however, nine subprojects
originally included in APL2 were brought forward for execution in APL1.
Environmental assessments, consistent with both GOI and World Bank
requirements, will be followed for each subprojects in the entire program,
to ensure that the landfills are safe and that they have adequate
operational guidelines. Along with preparing the required EAs, APL1 will
assist local governments in preparing credible landfill operating plans,
and more importantly will provide mechanisms to ensure that the guidelines
are followed and that the community will help monitor their progress.
Potential environmental impacts from compost facilities and the quality of
compost need to be carefully monitored. The project also proposes to
address medical waste management and disposal (to be further refined in
APL1 with establishment of the necessary implementation framework and
policies). Current practices are woefully inadequate, and Bank-supported
activities will meet all environmental safeguards. A thorough EA and EMP
will also be completed for any medical waste facility or wastewater
treatment plant.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Finn Nielsen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
-9-



not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2001.
- 10 -



