Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 029805 IND
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Western Java Environmental Management Project )
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated August 30, 2001
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 029805 IND
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 30, 2001, between  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the Bank has received a letter from the Recipient dated May 15, 2001, 
describing a program designed to enhance the environmental quality, human health, and 
economic productivity of the Recipient’s Provinces of Banten, DKI Jakarta and Jawa 
Barat through the provision of assistance to local governments for the development of 
local environmental agendas, pollution reduction, methane generation reduction, and 
improved municipal services (the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to 
Page  2
the execution of such program; 
(E)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Program through a 
series of grants over a period of approximately ten years, to be utilized by the 
Recipient in the implementation of the Program, and said request having been approved 
in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be 
funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may 
include funds carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 94-2; 
(F)
the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide additional financing 
towards the financing of the Project by an agreement of even date herewith between the 
Recipient and the Bank, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to eleven million seven hundred thousand Dollars 
($11,700,000) (the Loan); and
(G)
the Recipient has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financing towards the financing of 
the Project by an agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 4,600,000) (the Credit); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), 
(14), (17) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
Page  3
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Recipient", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF"; and 
(viii)Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows:
"(c)
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Recipient and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"
AMDAL" means Analisis Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan, the Recipient’s 
national procedures for the preparation of environmental impact assessment, including 
mitigation and monitoring measures established by Government Regulation No. 27 of 
1999, of the Recipient; 
(b)
"BAPPENAS" means the Recipient’s National Development Planning Agency;
(c)
"BAPEDA" means the Provincial Planning Agency in the Recipient’s 
Participating Province of Jawa Barat;
(d)
"BAPPEDA" means the Provincial, Kabupaten and Kota Development Planning 
Agency in the Recipient’s Participating Provinces of Banten and DKI Jakarta; and the 
Kabupaten and Kota Development Planning Agency in the Recipient’s Participating 
Province of Jawa Barat;
Page  4
(e)
"BAPEDAL"
 means the Recipient’s National Environmental Impact Management 
Agency;
(f)
"BAPEDALDA" means the Provincial Environmental Impact Management Agency;
(g)
"Bupati" means the chief executive of a Kabupaten;
(h)
"Central Program Support Unit" means the unit established in the 
Recipient’s Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development in the Ministry of 
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure to coordinate the implementation of the 
Program;
(i)
"DPRD" means the provincial council of a Province and the local council 
of a Kabupaten and Kota;
(j)
"Environmental Forum" means a forum established by a Participating Local 
Government consisting of a group of residents of a Kabupaten or Kota, interested in 
local environmental issues;
(k)
"Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31;
(l)
"Grantee" means a person or an entity carrying out activities under Part 
B.4 of the Project;
(m)
"Kabupate" means a district;
(n)
"Kota" means a municipality;
(o)
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines" means the framework issued 
by a Participating Local Government describing procedural and institutional aspects 
pertaining to land acquisition and the resettlement, rehabilitation and compensation 
of Project Affected Persons under the Project, as such Guidelines may be amended from 
time to time in agreement with the Bank;
(p)
"Local Program Support Unit" means the unit established in the BAPEDA or 
BAPPEDA in each participating Kabupaten and Kota to manage the Project components 
carried out by such Kabupaten and Kota; 
(q)
 "Memorandum of Understandings" means the memorandum of understandings 
entered into between the Recipient and each of the Participating Local Governments;
(r)
 "Participating Local Government" means a Kabupaten, Kota or a Province 
whose DPRD has passed a resolution agreeing to its participation in the Project and 
whose chief executive has entered into a Memorandum of Understandings with the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure;
(s)
"Participating Provinces" means the Recipient’s provinces of Banten, DKI 
Jakarta and Jawa Barat;
(t)
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution 
of Part D of the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently, adversely affected; or (iii) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, and "Project 
Affected Person" means individually all those who qualify as Project Affected Persons;
(u)
"Project Coordination and Review Committee" means the committee 
established to coordinate and annually review the Project on the basis of the reports 
prepared by the Central Program Support Unit;
(v)
 "Project Management Manual" means the manual to assist the Central, 
Provincial and Local Governments’ Project staff in the implementation of the Project 
through the description of, inter alia, procurement procedures (including the letter 
on national competitive bidding procedures) and standard documentation, reporting 
requirements, financial management procedures including audit procedures, the Project 
Performance Indicators, and environmental criteria applicable to Project and 
Sub-project design, as such Project Management Manual may be amended from time to time 
in agreement with the Bank;
(w)
"Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to 
Page  5
measure the Recipient’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(x)
"Provincial Program Support Unit" means the unit established in the 
BAPEDALDA of Jawa Barat and in the BAPPEDA of Banten and DKI Jakarta to manage the 
Project components carried out by such Participating Province;
(y)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means a resettlement and rehabilitation action 
plan to be prepared by a Participating Local Government pursuant to the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines;
(z)
"Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Recipient; 
(aa)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(bb)
"State of the Environment Report" means the annual report prepared by a 
Participating Local Government as required by BAPEDAL;
(cc)
"Sub-grant" means a grant made available by the Recipient out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Grant to a Grantee for purposes of Part B.4 of the Project;
(dd)
"Sub-project" means a specific public environmental improvement 
investment project under Part D of the Project;
(ee)
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Recipient to a Participating Local Government under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement for a 
Sub-project;
(ff)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and "SLA" mean the agreement to be entered 
into between the Recipient, represented by MOF, and a Participating Local Government, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" and "SLAs" mean all 
such Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(gg)
"UKL/UPL" means the environmental management and monitoring plans 
prepared by each Participating Local Government in accordance with the Recipient's 
national guidelines for environmental assessment and mitigation established by 
Government Regulation No. 27 of 1999 of the Recipient; and
(hh)
"Walikota" means the chief executive of a Kota.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR2,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (i) for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by 
the Recipient on account of a Sub-grant under Part B.4 of the Project and in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the Trust Fund is requested, and (ii) for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for carrying out of Part B.3 and B.5 of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Parts B.3, B.4 and B.5 of the 
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or 
in a state commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a state commercial bank, 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
Page  6
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development of its 
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, environmental and 
financial practices, and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Parts B.3, B.4 and B.5 of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
Page  7
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan made to the Recipient for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefore, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement;
(b)
an event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions, namely that the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement have been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to their 
effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
Page  8
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
(21) 381 2859
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in  
Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ H. E. DR. Boediono
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Mark Baird
Authorized Representative
Page  9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
  GEF Trust Fund Grant
   % of
 Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-grants under
1,700,000
100% of Sub-grant 
Part B.4 of
amount disbursed
the Project
(2)
Consultants’
  300,000
100%
services under
Part B.3 and B.5 of 
the Project
TOTAL
2,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of (i) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, and (ii) payments made for expenditures under Category (2) until a program, 
acceptable to the Bank, has been established in accordance with Part B.3 of the 
Project. 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i)  Sub-grants, 
(ii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 
equivalent each, and (iii) contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in implementing the 
Program by providing assistance to Participating Local Governments for the preparation 
of local environmental agendas to reduce local environmental degradation in the 
Participating Local Governments through improved infrastructure services and the 
strengthening of the overall management skills of Participating Local Governments. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Overall Urban Environmental Management
1.
Development of provincial and local environmental strategies and medium- and 
long-term environmental action plans for Participating Local Governments.
2.
Development of a strategic plan and a detailed action plan for the collection, 
transportation and disposal of medical waste for Participating Local Governments.
3.
Strengthening of the Central Program Support Unit, the Provincial Program 
Page  10
Support Units and the Local Program Support Units through the provision of staff 
training and management and technical advisory services, and provision of training to 
environmental groups.
4.
Development and implementation of an environmental awareness program for 
Participating Local Governments.
5.
Carrying out of a review of the curriculum for environmental education in the 
school system in the Participating Provinces, and implementation of improvements to 
such curriculum.
6.
Preparation of an emergency response plan for large scale industries for Kota 
Cilegon and Kabupaten Serang.
7.
Carrying out of a feasibility study and detailed engineering design for the 
treatment of waste water discharges and improvement of the oxidation pool in Kesenden 
in Kota Cirebon.
8.
Carrying out of a study for the normalization and the development of the lakes 
in Kota Depok.
9.
Preparation of a sanitation and sewerage scheme to improve the quality of the 
Cikapundung river in Kota Bandung.
10.
Carrying out of a feasibility study and detailed engineering design for a 
wastewater treatment plant in Kota Tangerang.
Part B:
Solid Waste Management
1.
Development of the organizational structure and establishment of the proposed 
Jabotabek and the Greater Bandung Waste Management Corporations.
2.
Preparation of feasibility studies for landfills and preparation of waste 
management plans, including environmental impact assessments and remedial plans for 
Kota Cirebon and Kabupaten Serang.
3.
Development of a compost production and marketing system, including design and 
establishment of a program to foster good quality compost production under Part B.4 of 
the Project, and carrying out of a marketing plan and a consumer socialization plan 
for use of compost produced on a commercial scale.
4.
Carrying out of a program to support the production of good quality compost by 
compost producers in the Participating Provinces, through the provision of Sub-grants 
to producers.
5.
Design of guidelines for the commercial production of compost in DKI Jakarta.
6.
Preparation of an assistance program for waste-pickers at landfills and 
collectors in cities, and development of a community-based solid waste management 
program for waste reduction through waste reduction, waste reuse and waste recycling 
in the Participating Provinces.
Part C:
Community and Private Sector Participation
1.
Preparation of an industrial waste, wastewater and effluents minimization and 
disposal program, including design of an incentives program and design of a credit 
facility for small- and medium-scale industries to build waste treatment or improve 
production efficiency to reduce pollution in the Participating Provinces.
2.
Preparation of a program design and implementation plan for a Community 
Environment Facility to assist the community in developing activities and small 
businesses which help reduce pollution and improve environmental quality in the 
Page  11
Participating Provinces.
3.
Preparation of a scheme to reduce waste from small- and medium-size soybean cake 
and tofu processing industries in DKI Jakarta.
4.
Revision of the development plan for a wastewater treatment plant in the Jakarta 
Industrial Estate Pulogadung to include wastewater from neighboring residential areas 
of Pulogadung, including preparation of an environmental impact assessment, detailed 
design, management plans and financial plans.
5.
Carrying out of feasibility studies for centralized industrial wastewater 
treatment plants in Kabupaten Serang and Kota Tangerang.
Part D:
Investment Sub-projects
Carrying out of public environmental improvement investment Sub-projects through 
the provision of Subsidiary Loans to Participating Local Governments.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients" published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
under Part B.3 and B.5 of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 
through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part B.5 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
Page  12
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, and the first contract by each of the Participating Local Government 
agencies,  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
 3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Central Program Support Unit, headed by the representative from Ministry of 
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure, and including representatives from BAPEDAL 
and the Participating Provinces.
2.
The Recipient shall establish and, thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Project Coordination and Review Committee, headed by the representative 
from BAPPENAS, and including representatives from the Ministry of Settlements and 
Regional Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance, BAPEDAL and the Participating 
Provinces.
3.
The Recipient shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Provincial Program Support Unit in each Participating Province, with 
competent staff in adequate numbers, who shall report directly to the Governor.
4.
The Recipient shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Local Program Support Unit in each Participating Kabupaten and Kota, with 
competent staff in adequate numbers, who shall report directly to the Bupati and 
Walikota, respectively.
5.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
cause at least four Participating Local Governments, as coordinated by 
the respective Participating Province, to prepare an annual State of the Environment 
Report, and furnish such report to the Central Program Support Unit and the Bank not 
later than March 31 in each year, commencing not later than March 31, 2002, and cause 
the remaining Participating Local Governments, as coordinated by the respective 
Participating Province, to prepare an annual State of the Environment Report, and 
furnish such report to the Central Program Support Unit and the Bank not later than 
March 31 in each year, commencing not later than March 31, 2003, and
(b)
cause each of such Reports to be evaluated by an independent team, 
acceptable to the Bank, by not later than July 31 in each year, commencing not later 
than July 31, 2002. 
Page  13
6.
The Recipient shall cause each Participating Local Government which does not 
have an Environmental Forum that is part of an existing urban forum, to establish, not 
later than July 31, 2002, an Environmental Forum.
7.
The Recipient shall cause the Participating Local Governments which operate 
landfills to each select at least one landfill and establish for such landfill, by not 
later than December 31, 2003, a neighborhood advisory committee to advise the 
Participating Local Government on the performance of the agency responsible for such 
landfill.
8.
In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank 
for its approval, the program to foster good quality compost production under Part B.4 
of the Project. 
9.
In carrying out Part B.4 of the Project the Recipient shall make Sub-grants in 
accordance with the program agreed with the Bank under Part B.3 of the Project.
10.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about July 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
1.
At least 50% of the Participating Local Governments have met the following 
indicators by Project completion:
(a)
the Participating Local Government which operates landfills has selected 
at least one landfill and established for such landfill a neighborhood advisory 
committee that meets on a regular basis; 
(b)
the Participating Local Government’s solid waste net revenues have 
increased by 20% over FY 2001 net revenues; and 
(c)
at least eight annual "State of the Environment" reports, acceptable to 
the Bank, have been prepared by Participating Local Governments.
2.
By Project completion, the Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation has been 
established and its operations funded partially by the revenues generated from 
transactions.
3.
By Project completion, the Greater Bandung Waste Management Corporation has been 
established and its operations funded partially by the revenues generated from 
transactions.
4.
By Project completion, waste management master plans for the Jabotabek and 
Page  14
Bandung regions have been updated, agreed and publicly vetted. Environmental impact 
assessments, consistent with the Bank’s environmental assessment requirements, and 
operating plans exist for all operating and proposed landfills.
5.
By Project completion, an aggregate of at least 60,000 tons of quality, 
certified compost has been produced. 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B.3, B.4 and B.5 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $125,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the  Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
Page  15
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
