Page  1
August 30, 2001
His Excellency
DR. Boediono
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Jakarta, Indonesia
Dear Mr. Minister:
Re:
Japan Social Development Fund Grant
      for Squatter Settlements Pilot Assistance Project
Grant Number TF-026563                                                     
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan under the Japan Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an 
amount not exceeding two million one hundred sixty eight thousand United States 
dollars (US $2,190,400) (the Grant) to the Republic of Indonesia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance with the project described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement (the Project) and on the terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to 
contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mark Baird
Country Director, Indonesia
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ DR. Boediono
Minister of Finance
Date:
August 30, 2001 
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
1.1.
The objective of the Project is to assist the local governments of the Jakarta 
Metropolitan Area (DKI Jakarta and Kabupaten/Kotamadya Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi) 
and the cities of Cirebon and Serang to provide assistance to squatter communities to 
improve the conditions in about thirty kelurahan. The assistance is complementary to 
the activities under the Recipient’s Western Java and Jakarta Environmental Management 
Project.
1.2.
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the 
Page  2
following activities (the Activities):
Part A:  Program Facilitation
Carrying out of facilitation activities, including convening community 
meetings and inter-governmental and departmental meetings, placement of public 
notices in local media, provision of community liaison officers, and carrying 
out of workshops. The activities are estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$180,000.
Part B:  Community Sub-Grants
Carrying out of small-scale, pilot investment projects in about 30 
kelurahan to improve the conditions in such kelurahan through the provision of 
Sub-Grants to Grantees. The activities are estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$1,800,000.
Part C: Program Management Assistance
Carrying out of supervision of the pilot activities and provision of 
guidance to community organizations, including observation of community meetings 
and related activities, through provision of technical assistance. The 
activities are estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,400. 
Part D:  Monitoring and Evaluation and Research
Carrying out of random, statistically valid, surveys prior to and after 
completion of the pilot activities to measure such pilot's impact, through the 
provision of technical assistance.  The activities are estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$160,000.
1.3.
For purposes of this Letter Agreement the following terms, wherever used in this 
Letter Agreement, have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution 
of  Part B of  the  Project,  has  or  would  have  his  or  her: (i) standard 
of living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land 
(including premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other fixed or 
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) 
business, occupation, work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected;
(b)
"Grantee" and "Grantees" means a person and persons, respectively, 
responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part B of the Project;
(c)
"Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement" means the 
guidelines prepared by the Recipient, in agreement with the Bank, for the 
provision of compensation to Affected Persons as set forth in paragraph 2.6 of 
this Schedule and in the Project Manual, and as such Guidelines may be amended 
from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
(d)
Kabupaten" means a district;
(e)
"Kimpraswil" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and 
Regional Infrastructure;
(f)
"Kotamadya" means an incorporated municipality;
(g)
"Kelurahan" means a neighborhood or sub-district;
(h)
"Project Manual" means the Project Manual to assist squatter 
communities in the implementation of Sub-projects through the description of, 
among others, procurement procedures and standard documentation, reporting 
requirements, the Project Performance Indicators, Guidelines for Compensation 
and Resettlement, environmental criteria applicable to Sub-project design, 
maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under the Sub-project and 
criteria for the selection of Sub-projects, as such Project Manual may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
Page  3
(i)
"Sub-Grant" means a grant made available by the Recipient out of 
the proceeds of the Grant for a Sub-project under Part B of the Project;
(j)
"Sub-project" means a specific investment project carried out 
under Part B of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-Grant; and
(k)
"Sub-project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into among the relevant Grantee or Grantees, the relevant local 
government and the Recipient’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional 
Infrastructure for purposes of implementing the activities under a Sub-project 
under Part B of the Project. 
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project through Kimpraswil with due 
diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the 
Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; 
(d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the progress 
and results of the Project; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the 
Bank to visit the territory of the Republic of Indonesia for purposes related to the 
Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Project a 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of 
the Project.
2.2.
The Recipient shall select Sub-projects in Kelurahans in accordance with the 
following criteria:
(a)
each Sub-project proposed under Part B of the Project shall be an 
investment project which is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and 
economically justified by the number of people benefiting from it; 
(b)
the estimated cost of a proposed Sub-project shall be not more than 
$30,000;
(c)
no Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or 
paramilitary purposes; (ii) include civil works for government administration or 
religious purposes, (iii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally 
hazardous products, arms or harmful or illegal drugs; or (iv) include the financing of 
government salaries.
2.3.
In carrying out Part B of the Project the Recipient shall, through the 
designated offices of Kimpraswil, ensure that, prior to the carrying out of works 
under a Sub-project, the relevant local government shall have completed a technical 
review of such Sub-project and shall have confirmed the following:
(a)
the criteria described in paragraph 2.2 of this Schedule have been 
complied with;
(b)
appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that 
would minimize any acquisition of land, avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected 
Persons, and avoid or minimize any negative environmental impact, have been considered 
in the design of the Sub-project in accordance with the Project Manual;
(c)
the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have been complied with, 
and, if applicable, appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed and are 
satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth under the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement and paragraph 2.6 of this Schedule;
(d)
a Sub-project Implementation Agreement has been entered into and an 
implementation plan for the Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Manual; and
(f)
a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the 
Page  4
Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the Bank and has 
been included in the Sub-project Implementation Agreement, which shall include 
assignment of maintenance responsibilities in the respective Kelurahan, the 
preparation of training programs to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the 
Kelurahan, and the identification of available sources of financing to carry out such 
programs.
2.4.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
ensure that the respective Grantees carry out the Sub-projects selected 
pursuant to paragraph 2.2 of this Schedule in accordance with the Project Manual and 
the respective Sub-project Implementation Agreements;
(b)
ensure that, until completion of the Project, the Project Manual is made 
available to squatter communities and applied in the carrying out of Sub-projects; and
(c)
periodically update the Project Manual, as needed.
2.5.
The Recipient shall ensure that:
(a)
each Sub-project is reviewed by the Project oversight staff upon 
completion and that a certificate of Sub-project completion is issued by the Project 
oversight staff upon a finding of satisfactory Sub-project completion in accordance 
with the Project Manual and the approved designs; and
(b)
if there is a finding of unsatisfactory completion of a Sub-project, 
except for cases of force majeure, the respective local government shall recover the 
amounts disbursed under the respective Sub-Grant in accordance with community 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.6.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
residents of Kelurahans and to avoid the displacement of said residents;
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of residents 
is unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the respective local 
government shall, before the carrying out of the works which would result in such 
acquisition or displacement, make available to such residents, compensation in 
accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more residents are adversely affected by 
a Sub-project:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement and furnish such plan to the Bank for 
approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all 
Affected Persons shall have been compensated in accordance with the 
provisions of said plan.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
Page  5
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Project:
Category
           Amount of the
%
    Grant Allocated          of Expenditures
(in United States Dollars)   to be Financed 
(1)
 Sub-grants under
1,800,000
100% of Sub-grant
       Part B of the
amount disbursed
       Project
(2)   Consultants’
      services
  390,400
100%
TOTAL
2,190,400
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the 
Bank; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or works and services supplied from 
such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, works if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account for payments made for 
expenditures under Category (1) until the Recipient has issued the Project Manual 
acceptable to the Bank;
(c)
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after July 31, 2003, 
or such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date); and 
(d)
if, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, 
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, 
in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by the Director General of Budget of the Ministry of Finance 
or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) 
accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to 
sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his 
or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its 
supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that 
the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Project.  The Bank shall pay the 
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of 
the Recipient.
Page  6
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services under 
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in 
Bank Indonesia (the Central Bank) or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to 
this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement 
with the International Development Bank shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
Page  7
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
Attachment I 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997, and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, works shall be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project may be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Page  8
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  9
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested  and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the 
Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
Page  10
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
