Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3519 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Western Java Environmental Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 30, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3519 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 30, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower dated May 
15, 2001, describing a program designed to enhance the environmental quality, human 
health, and economic productivity of the Borrower’s Provinces of Banten, DKI Jakarta 
and Jawa Barat through the provision of assistance to local governments for the 
development of local environmental agendas, pollution reduction, methane generation 
reduction, and improved municipal services (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of such program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of credits over a period of approximately 
ten years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(D)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to eleven million seven hundred thousand Dollars 
Page  2
($11,700,000) (the Loan);
(E)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
(F)
the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 of the Executive Directors of the Bank, dated May 24, 1994, 
establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and, by an agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF (the GEF Grant 
Agreement), GEF is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000) (the GEF 
Grant); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows; 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.";
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."; and
(c)
paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:
"(c)
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and 
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  3
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AMDAL" means Analisis Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan, the Borrower’s 
national procedures for the preparation of environmental impact assessment, including 
mitigation and monitoring measures established by Government Regulation No. 27 of 
1999, of the Borrower; 
(b)
"BAPPENAS" means the Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency;
(c)
"BAPEDA" means the Provincial Planning Agency in the Borrower’s 
Participating Province of Jawa Barat;
(d)
"BAPPEDA" means the Provincial, Kabupaten and Kota Development Planning 
Agency in the Borrower’s Participating Provinces of Banten and DKI Jakarta; and the 
Kabupaten and Kota Development Planning Agency in the Borrower’s Participating 
Province of Jawa Barat;
(e)
"BAPEDAL" means the Borrower’s National Environmental Impact Management 
Agency;
(f)
"BAPEDALDA" means the Provincial Environmental Impact Management Agency;
(g)
"Bupati" means the chief executive of a Kabupaten;
(h)
"Central Program Support Unit" means the unit established in the 
Borrower’s Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development in the Ministry of 
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure to coordinate the implementation of the 
Program;
(i)
"DPRD" means the provincial council of a Province and the local council 
of a Kabupaten and Kota;
(j)
"Environmental Forum" means a forum established by a Participating Local 
Government consisting of a group of residents of a Kabupaten or Kota, interested in 
local environmental issues;
(k)
"Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 
1 and ending December 31;
(l)
"Grantee" means a person or an entity carrying out activities under Part 
B.4 of the Project;
(m)
"Kabupaten" means a district;
(n)
"Kota" means a municipality;
(o)
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines" means the framework issued 
by a Participating Local Government describing procedural and institutional aspects 
pertaining to land acquisition and the resettlement, rehabilitation and compensation 
of Project Affected Persons under the Project, as such Guidelines may be amended from 
time to time in agreement with the Association;
(p)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(q)
"Local Program Support Unit" means the unit established in the BAPEDA or 
BAPPEDA in each participating Kabupaten and Kota to manage the Project components 
carried out by such Kabupaten and Kota; 
(r)
 "Memorandum of Understandings" means the memorandum of understandings 
entered into between the Borrower and each of the Participating Local Governments in 
accordance with Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(s)
 "Participating Local Government" means a Kabupaten, Kota or a Province 
whose DPRD has passed a resolution agreeing to its participation in the Project and 
Page  4
whose chief executive has entered into a Memorandum of Understandings with the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure;
(t)
"Participating Provinces" means the Borrower’s provinces of Banten, DKI 
Jakarta and Jawa Barat;
(u)
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution 
of Part D of the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected, and "Project Affected Person" means 
individually all those who qualify as Project Affected Persons;
(v)
"Project Coordination and Review Committee" means the committee 
established to coordinate and annually review the Project on the basis of the reports 
prepared by the Central Program Support Unit;
(w)
 "Project Management Manual" means the manual to assist the Central, 
Provincial and Local Governments’ Project staff in the implementation of the Project 
through the description of, inter alia, procurement procedures (including the letter 
on national competitive bidding procedures) and standard documentation, reporting 
requirements, financial management procedures including audit procedures, the Project 
Performance Indicators, and environmental criteria applicable to Project and 
Sub-project design, as such Project Management Manual may be amended from time to time 
in agreement with the Association;
(x)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(y)
"Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to 
measure the Borrower’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(z)
"Provincial Program Support Unit" means the unit established in the 
BAPEDALDA of Jawa Barat and in the BAPPEDA of Banten and DKI Jakarta to manage the 
Project components carried out by such Participating Province;
(aa)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means a resettlement and rehabilitation action 
plan to be prepared by a Participating Local Government pursuant to the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines;
(bb)
"Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(cc)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(dd)
"State of the Environment Report" means the annual report prepared by a 
Participating Local Government as required by BAPEDAL;
(ee)
"Sub-grant" means a grant made available by the Borrower out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Grant to a Grantee for purposes of Part B.4 of the Project;
(ff)
"Sub-project" means a specific public environmental improvement 
investment project under Part D of the Project;
(gg)
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower to a Participating Local Government under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement for a 
Sub-project;
(hh)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and "SLA" mean the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower, represented by MOF, and a Participating Local Government 
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" and "SLAs" mean all such Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(ii)
"UKL/UPL" means the environmental management and monitoring plans 
prepared by each Participating Local Government in accordance with the Borrower's 
national guidelines for environmental assessment and mitigation established by 
Government Regulation No. 27 of 1999 of the Borrower; and
(jj)
"Walikota" means the chief executive of a Kota. 
Page  5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
4,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project (except Parts B.3, 
B.4 and B.5 of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project (except Parts B.3, B.4 
and B.5 of the Project) open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank 
Indonesia (its Central Bank) or in a state commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including in the 
case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (½ of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2011, and ending May 1, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2021, shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1 1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2 1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
Page  6
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development of its 
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, environmental and 
financial practices, and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of the 
Credit the amounts allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to selected Participating Local 
Governments under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the selected Participating Local Governments, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Association. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of the Credit to 
the Participating Local Governments, on a grant basis, the amount allocated from time 
to time to Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
in accordance with conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  7
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so  audited,  and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  8
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to 
in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
January 31, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
an event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and 
(b)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the agreement providing therefore.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Page  9
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b)
that the GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c)
that each Participating Local Government has passed a resolution 
supporting its participation in the Project, including an agreement to public 
consultation on environmental indicators and targets, and reporting mechanisms for 
annual progress on these targets;
(d)
that each Participating Local Government has entered into a Memorandum of 
Understandings with the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional 
Infrastructure, acceptable to the Association, based on the resolution in paragraph 
(c) of this Section, and covering the period until Project completion;
(e)
that the Central Program Support Unit has been established in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
that the members of the Project Coordination and Review Committee have 
been selected in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(g)
that the Provincial Program Support Units have been established in 
accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h)
that the Local Program Support Units have been established in accordance 
with paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(i)
that the Project Management Manual, acceptable to the Association, has 
been issued.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
(21) 381 2859
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
Page  10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ H.E. DR. Boediono
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mark Baird
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
       Amount of the
     Credit Allocated
  Amount of the
      (Expressed in
Loan Allocated
% of
SDR
(Expressed in 
    Expenditures
Equivalent
   dollars
          to be Financed
(1) Civil works and goods
    5,600,000     90%
     (including specialized
     trucks but excluding
     all other vehicles) for
     Sub-projects financed
     under SLAs
(2) Consultants’ services
4,600,000
    5,983,000     100%
      (except Part B.3 and
      B.5 of the Project)
(3)  Fee
      117,000
Page  11
TOTAL
4,600,000
11,700,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
payments under Category (1) with respect to expenditures incurred under a 
Sub-project, unless: (i) the relevant Participating Local Government has issued Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines, acceptable to the Association; (ii) the 
Sub-project has been selected in accordance with the criteria described under 
paragraph 10 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iii) the Association has approved 
the terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Loan; and (iv) where applicable, the 
implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan and the AMDAL requirements have been 
found acceptable to the Association.
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) contracts for goods 
and works costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (iii) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants valued at less than $50,000 
equivalent each, all  under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing the 
Program by providing assistance to Participating Local Governments for the preparation 
of local environmental agendas to reduce local environmental degradation in the 
Participating Local Governments through improved infrastructure services and the 
strengthening of the overall management skills of Participating Local Governments. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Overall Urban Environmental Management
1.
Development of provincial and local environmental strategies and medium- and 
long-term environmental action plans for Participating Local Governments.
2.
Development of a strategic plan and a detailed action plan for the collection, 
transportation and disposal of medical waste for Participating Local Governments.
3.
Strengthening of the Central Program Support Unit, the Provincial Program 
Support Units and the Local Program Support Units through the provision of staff 
training and management and technical advisory services, and provision of training to 
environmental groups.
4.
Development and implementation of an environmental awareness program for 
Participating Local Governments.
5.
Carrying out of a review of the curriculum for environmental education in the 
school system in the Participating Provinces, and implementation of improvements to 
such curriculum.
6.
Preparation of an emergency response plan for large scale industries for Kota 
Cilegon and Kabupaten Serang.
7.
Carrying out of a feasibility study and detailed engineering design for the 
Page  12
treatment of waste water discharges and improvement of the oxidation pool in Kesenden 
in Kota Cirebon.
8.
Carrying out of a study for the normalization and the development of the lakes 
in Kota Depok.
9.
Preparation of a sanitation and sewerage scheme to improve the quality of the 
Cikapundung river in Kota Bandung.
10.
Carrying out of a feasibility study and detailed engineering design for a 
wastewater treatment plant in Kota Tangerang.
Part B:
Solid Waste Management
1.
Development of the organizational structure and establishment of the proposed 
Jabotabek and the Greater Bandung Waste Management Corporations.
2.
Preparation of feasibility studies for landfills and preparation of waste 
management plans, including environmental impact assessments and remedial plans for 
Kota Cirebon and Kabupaten Serang.
3.
Development of a compost production and marketing system, including design and 
establishment of a program to foster good quality compost production under Part B.4 of 
the Project, and carrying out of a marketing plan and a consumer socialization plan 
for use of compost produced on a commercial scale.
4.
Carrying out of a program to support the production of good quality compost by 
compost producers in the Participating Provinces, through the provision of Sub-grants 
to producers.
5.
Design of guidelines for the commercial production of compost in DKI Jakarta.
6.
Preparation of an assistance program for waste-pickers at landfills and 
collectors in cities, and development of a community-based solid waste management 
program for waste reduction through waste reduction, waste reuse and waste recycling 
in the Participating Provinces.
Part C:
Community and Private Sector Participation
1.
Preparation of an industrial waste, wastewater and effluents minimization and 
disposal program, including design of an incentives program and design of a credit 
facility for small- and medium-scale industries to build waste treatment or improve 
production efficiency to reduce pollution in the Participating Provinces.
2.
Preparation of a program design and implementation plan for a Community 
Environment Facility to assist the community in developing activities and small 
businesses which help reduce pollution and improve environmental quality in the 
Participating Provinces.
3.
Preparation of a scheme to reduce waste from small- and medium-size soybean cake 
and tofu processing industries in DKI Jakarta.
4.
Revision of the development plan for a wastewater treatment plant in the Jakarta 
Industrial Estate Pulogadung to include wastewater from neighboring residential areas 
of Pulogadung, including preparation of an environmental impact assessment, detailed 
design, management plans and financial plans.
5.
Carrying out of feasibility studies for centralized industrial wastewater 
treatment plants in Kabupaten Serang and Kota Tangerang.
Part D:
Investment Sub-projects
Carrying out of public environmental improvement investment Sub-projects through 
Page  13
the provision of Subsidiary Loans to Participating Local Governments.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country"  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each..
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (excluding specialized trucks and other vehicles) estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Supplemental Letter on National Competitive Bidding Procedures of 
even date with this Agreement and appended to the Project Management Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
Page  14
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for technical assistance under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.6, A.8, A.9, B.2, 
B.6, C.1 and C.4 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
Page  15
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the first contract for the 
employment of consulting firms by each of the Participating Local Government’s 
agencies, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and the first 
contract for the employment of individual consultants by each of the Participating 
Local Government’s agencies, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Central Program Support Unit, headed by the representative from Ministry of 
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure, and including representatives from BAPEDAL 
and the Participating Provinces.
2.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Project Coordination and Review Committee, headed by the representative 
from BAPPENAS, and including representatives from the Ministry of Settlements and 
Regional Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance, BAPEDAL and the Participating 
Provinces.
3.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Provincial Program Support Unit in each Participating Province, with 
competent staff in adequate numbers, who shall report directly to the Governor.
4.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Local Program Support Unit in each Participating Kabupaten and Kota, with 
competent staff in adequate numbers, who shall report directly to the Bupati and 
Walikota, respectively.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
cause at least four Participating Local Governments, as coordinated by 
the respective Participating Province, to prepare an annual State of the Environment 
Report, and furnish such report to the Central Program Support Unit and the 
Association not later than March 31 in each year, commencing not later than March 31, 
2002, and cause the remaining Participating Local Governments, as coordinated by the 
respective Participating Province, to prepare an annual State of the Environment 
Report, and furnish such report to the Central Program Support Unit and the 
Association not later than March 31 in each year, commencing not later than March 31, 
2003, and
(b) cause each of such Reports to be evaluated by an independent team, 
acceptable to the Association, by not later than July 31 in each year, commencing not 
Page  16
later than July 31, 2002. 
6.
The Borrower shall cause each Participating Local Government which does not have 
an Environmental Forum that is part of an existing urban forum, to establish, not 
later than July 31, 2002, an Environmental Forum.
7.
The Borrower shall cause the Participating Local Governments which operate 
landfills to each select at least one landfill and establish for such landfill, by not 
later than December 31, 2003, a neighborhood advisory committee to advise the 
Participating Local Government on the performance of the agency responsible for such 
landfill.
8.
In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its approval, the program to foster good quality compost production 
under Part B.4 of the Project. 
9.
In carrying out Part B.4 of the Project the Borrower shall make Sub-grants in 
accordance with the program agreed with the Association under Part B.3 of the Project.
10.
In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
cause the relevant Participating Local Government to issue Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines, acceptable to the Association;
(b)
cause the relevant Participating Local Government to select and prepare 
Sub-projects to be financed under Part D of the Project using technical, financial, 
economic, environmental and social criteria acceptable to the Association. Such 
criteria shall include, without limitation, that: (i) each Sub-project shall be 
prepared by the respective Participating Local Government in accordance with general 
technical guidelines approved by the Association; (ii) for each Sub-project involving 
the involuntary resettlement of Project Affected Persons, a Resettlement Action Plan 
has been prepared in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines 
and in consultation with said Project Affected Persons, and such Resettlement Action 
Plan has been approved by the Association; (iii) for each Sub-project, operation and 
maintenance arrangements have been defined; and (iv) for each Sub-project, the AMDAL 
and UKL/UPL requirements have been completed; and
(c)
furnish to the Association for its approval the terms and conditions of 
the relevant Subsidiary Loan.
11.
The Borrower shall ensure that each Participating Local Government carrying out 
a Sub-project under Part D of the Project:
(a)
shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to this end shall carry out the Sub-project 
under Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and resettlement 
practices, and shall provide, or cause be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such Sub-project;
(b)
shall procure the goods, works and consultants' services required for the 
Sub-project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
shall use the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit exclusively for the purposes of the Sub-project;
(d)
shall allow the Borrower to inspect, from time to time, the goods, works 
and services under the Sub-project, including all records and documents relating 
thereto;
(e)
promptly informs the Borrower of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Sub-project and ensures that 
Page  17
appropriate corrective measures are taken;
(f)
from time to time, at the request of either the Borrower or the 
Association, exchanges views with the Borrower and the Association regarding progress 
achieved in carrying out the Sub-project; and
(g)
furnishes to the Association all such information and documents related 
to the Sub-project as may reasonably be requested.  The Participating Local Government 
shall further agree to obtain such information and documents as may be required by the 
Borrower to fulfill its supervision, monitoring, recording and reporting obligations 
to the Association.
12.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about July 31, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
1.
At least 50% of the Participating Local Governments have met the following 
indicators by Project completion:
(a)
the Participating Local Government which operates landfills has selected 
at least one landfill and established for such landfill a neighborhood advisory 
committee that meets on a regular basis; 
(b)
the Participating Local Government’s solid waste net revenues have 
increased by 20% over FY 2001 net revenues; and 
(c)
at least eight annual "State of the Environment" reports, acceptable to 
the Association, have been prepared by Participating Local Governments.
2.
By Project completion, the Jabotabek Waste Management Corporation has been 
established and its operations funded partially by the revenues generated from 
transactions.
3.
By Project completion, the Greater Bandung Waste Management Corporation has been 
established and its operations funded partially by the revenues generated from 
transactions.
4.
By Project completion, waste management master plans for the Jabotabek and 
Bandung regions have been updated, agreed and publicly vetted. Environmental impact 
assessments, consistent with the Association’s environmental assessment requirements, 
and operating plans exist for all operating and proposed landfills.
Page  18
5.
By Project completion, an aggregate of at least 60,000 tons of quality, 
certified compost has been produced. 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project (except Parts B.3, B.4 
and B.5 of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,750,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $875,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
Page  19
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Category minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished  to  the  Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
