                   PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                            APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                        <Date>
                                                                           Report No.: AB7000
                                            (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                   Solomon Islands Development Policy Operation 1
Region                           EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
Country                          Solomon Islands
Sector                           General public administration sector (100%)
Operation ID                     P126740
Lending Instrument               Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                      SOLOMON ISLANDS GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency              MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND TREASURY
                                 Ministry of Finance and Treasury
                                 PO Box 26
                                 Honiara
                                 Solomon Islands
                                 Tel: (677) 22-556
                                 sfanega@mof.gov.sb
Date PID Prepared                February 24, 2012
Estimated Date of Appraisal      February 1, 2012
Estimated Date of Board          April 26, 2012
Approval
Corporate Review Decision        Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                 proceed with the preparation of the operation.

I.    Country and Sector Background

      The proposed First Development Policy Grant is the first of two programmatic, one-
      tranche development policy operations. The programmatic series is designed to help the
      government implement its National Development Strategy (NDS) in the context of its’
      Economic and Financial Reform Program (EFRP) which underpins the donor budget
      support operations. Budget support as a form of assistance in Solomon Islands serves
      several over-arching strategic purposes. It has proven more effective than project aid or
      TA alone in supporting and consolidating structural reform, mitigates vulnerability to
      unanticipated shocks, promotes dialogue and coordination across donors and partners,
      and reduces aid fragmentation. The proposed grant of US$2 million equivalent is meant
      to be disbursed into the government’s 2012 budget in a single tranche.

II.   Operation Objectives

      The proposed operation would support the following three development objectives: (i)
      improve the quality of public financial management; (ii) improve the financial
      management of key state owned enterprises; and (iii) improve extractive revenue
      transparency.
III.   Rationale for Bank Involvement

       Solomon Islands is a fragile, post-conflict small island state. A former British
       protectorate, the country became independent in 1978 and enjoyed twenty years of
       moderate but sustained economic growth and improvement in social indicators. A low-
       level conflict between 1998 and 2003, known as “the Tensions,? brought the formal
       economy and many state functions to a halt. An Australian-led and financed regional
       peacekeeping mission, the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands (RAMSI),
       put a halt to the violence, and rapidly restored order and basic state functions, particularly
       in finance. The RAMSI presently retains a police and military presence, as well as a large
       corps of civilians in advisory or in line functions, concentrated in the Ministry of Finance
       and Treasury (MOFT). A transition for RAMSI is envisioned in 2013 but is not likely to
       lead to a reduction in the overall amount of aid, but rather many of the current RAMSI
       civilian-led development functions are likely to be incorporated into more conventional
       aid programs. An international security presence is likely for the foreseeable future.

       Until very recently, fiscal indiscipline and pro-cyclical spending prevailed while public
       service delivery from government and its state owned enterprises (SOEs) was inadequate
       and inequitably distributed. The RAMSI intervention, together with the Honiara Club
       Agreement of 2003, helped stabilize the fiscal situation until the Global Economic Crisis
       of 2008/09. The legacy of poor fiscal management made it difficult for the government
       to manage the crisis, with the result that strong internal and external imbalances emerged
       in 2009.

       In response, the government and donors formed the Core Economic Working Group
       (CEWG) in March 2009 in order to better meet the economic and fiscal challenges facing
       the country during the Global Economic Crisis. The CEWG represents a very close
       collaboration between government officials RAMSI, Australia, New Zealand, the Asian
       Development Bank, the European Commission, and the World Bank. This led to a
       successful request for an IMF Standby Credit Facility and start of general budget support
       from the ADB and EC, with the Australian Agency for International Development and
       the New Zealand Aid Programme providing sectoral budget support. The situation has
       significantly improved, following three years of a deepening reform dialogue and the
       introduction of a shared reform agenda, the EFRP.

       The challenge now is to deepen these reforms, focusing on more transparently translating
       government resources into wider and better provision of public services. Following the
       completion of new analytical work including a Public Expenditure Review, a
       procurement review, and background work for a proposed Mining Sector Technical
       Assistance project, the CEWG led by the government agreed on a number of
       opportunities for new policy reforms that are consistent with the EFRP and are
       complementary to existing programs of support from RAMSI and the donor community.
       These are summarized below.
IV.    Tentative financing

Source:                                                                             ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                     0
IDA Grant                                                                              2
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                     Total              2

V.     Tranches (if applicable)

                                                                                    ($m.)
First Tranche                                                                          2
Second Tranche
Etc.
Total                                                                                   2

VI.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

       The administration of this operation will be the responsibility of MOFT while monitoring
       and evaluation is done jointly with the donors under the CEWG. The MOFT Financial
       and Economic Development Unit (FEDU) is the main office responsible for monitoring
       the program and all outcome indicators. FEDU will provide quarterly reports to the
       World Bank and other CEWG budget support partners on implementation progress
       measured against established timetables and agreed performance indicators. This will be
       done as part of the reporting process established earlier for the CEWG. The overall
       reform effort will be reviewed by the government in close coordination with the World
       Bank’s in-country office and regular Bank missions to ensure continued implementation
       of the program within an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.

VII.   Risks and Risk Mitigation

       Program ownership is potentially subject to some political risk given frequent changes in
       governments in Solomon Islands. The risk is reduced in several ways. Many of the key
       political leaders and senior bureaucratic officials remain in government even if their
       portfolios are altered with successive changes in government. Within this group, there is
       a high level recognition of the need for reform and the degree of commitment has
       deepened significantly across a range of political actors. The establishment of the
       government-led multi-donor Core Economic Working Group (CEWG) mechanism has
       led to a coherent, coordinated, and consistent approach by donors that can also be a force
       for policy stability.

       The macroeconomic and fiscal framework is subject to considerable risks from volatile
       commodity prices, weather, and seismic events. These risks are reduced by successful
       government action to build up external and internal buffer stocks as part of the ongoing
      dialogue with the IMF and donors on macroeconomic policies and the reform program.
      The Bank will continue to monitor the impact of global economic shocks and assess the
      need for further support. Both the World Bank supported Rapid Employment Project and
      the Rural Development Program could be ramped up if need be as part of a response to
      an economic shock.

      There is some risk of a resurgence of social unrest. This is being addressed by the
      government on many fronts ranging from security to state building to public service
      provision, with assistance from RAMSI and other key donors. The World Bank Justice
      for the Poor program is aimed squarely at better understanding this risk. It focuses on
      improved public sector management at the local level where traditional and outside legal
      systems intersect. The proposed grant with its emphasis on public sector effectiveness
      and accountability will augment these efforts by helping to improve service delivery
      outcomes, in turn contributing to political stabilization.

      Weak institutional capacity could hamper the implementation of the reforms supported
      by the proposed operation and the broader NDS. These risks are mitigated by the choice
      and design of the supported measures which are calibrated to existing capacity, the
      provision of extensive technical assistance by RAMSI, the Pacific Financial Technical
      Assistance Centre, the World Bank, and other donors through ongoing or planned
      projects supporting the key ministries responsible for policing, justice, prisons, public
      finance, health, education, and infrastructure.

      RAMSI is being progressively scaled back with expectation that its advisory presence in
      2013 will be roughly one third of its size in 2009. At the same time, it is expected that
      more traditional development assistance from AusAID, NZAP and other donors will
      gradually be increased. Overall aid levels are not expected to go down. This change in
      modality creates some short-term coordination risks but it also creates an opportunity for
      the government to collaborate with the international community through the CEWG
      process on how a long-term aid program could best serve the population – including
      elements of assistance aimed at reducing fragility, encouraging growth and job creation,
      and building government capacity.

VIII. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

      The measures supported by the proposed First Development Policy Grant are expected to
      have a significant positive impact on poverty reduction. Strengthening the budget
      formation process is expected to lead to a better alignment between the NDS, budgetary
      requirements, and budgetary allocations. Improving the quality of budget execution
      should help ensure that the newly aligned budget is well implemented and leakages to
      unproductive uses are reduced. These changes should gradually facilitate the coverage
      and quality of public service delivery throughout the Solomon Islands. The new
      consultative role created for citizens groups and provincial leaders, combined with the
      new provisions for greater transparency are expected to be especially helpful in
      motivating better results. With regard to the state owned enterprises responsible for
      utility services, economic growth and poverty reduction should be promoted through
      better financial management. The actions proposed for extractive revenue transparency
       will facilitate poverty reduction indirectly through the promotion of a fiscal regime that
       clarifies revenue sharing obligations and creates more visibility in the receipt and
       distribution of mining sector revenues. These outcomes, in turn, are expected to increase
       the resources available to the government, and to local mining affected communities, for
       poverty reducing programs and activities. In addition, improved transparency reduces the
       vulnerability to conflict associated with mining.

       The specific actions supported by the proposed programmatic series of development
       policy operations are not likely to have significant positive or negative effects on the
       Solomon Islands environment, forests or other natural resources. Specifically, the
       measures supported by the proposed operation to improve the quality of budget formation
       and execution, improve the transparency and accountability of SOEs, and improve
       mining sector governance are not expected to have a negative effect on the country’s
       environment and natural resources.


IX.    Contact point

World Bank

Contact:   Douglas M. Addison
Title:     Senior Economist
Tel:       (202) 473-1188
Fax:       (202) 473-8136
Email:     Daddison@worldbank.org

Contact:   Timothy Bulman
Title:     Economist
Tel:       677-75-56-650
Email:     TBulman@worldbank.org

Borrower

Contact: Shadrach Fanega
Title:   Permanent Secretary
Tel:     677-22-556
Email: sfanega@mof.gov.sb

X.     For more information contact:

The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
