RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-694a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK POR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
JAMAICA
April 9, 1969
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -   Jamaican Pound (LJ)
sh                -   shillings (20 shillings - WJl)
d                 -   pence (12 pence - 1 shilling)
US$1              -   LJ 0.416
US$1 million      -   UJ 416,667
TaJ               -   US$ 2.40
UJ million        -   US$ 2.4 million
ABBREVIATIONS
Commission        -   The 1k'ter Commission
Kingston, Jamaica
NWA               -   National A*ter  uthority
Corporate Area    -   Kingston and St. Andrew
Parishes,
PAHO              -   Pan American Health Organization
UNDP (SF)        --   United Nations Development Program
(Special Fund)
Gallon            -   Imperial Gallon
(1 gallon = 4.5 liters or
1.2 US gallons)
IMgd              -   million Imperial gallons per day
(1 lMgd - h.544 Cubic Meters/Day)
gcd               -   gallons per capita per day
(1 gcd - 4.54 liters/day)
IMg               -   million Inperial gallons
ppm               -   parts per million
FISCAL YEAR
April 1           -   March 31
i.e. fiscal year 1969 - year ending March 31, 1969



APPRAISAL OF THE
KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
JAMAICA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Summary
1. Introduction                                          1
2.  The 14ater Supply and Sewerage Sector in Jamaica     2
A.  Relation to Jamaican Economy                 2
B.  Administrative Structure                     2
3. Existing 'Water and Sewerage Facilities in
Kingston and St. Andrew and Development Program      4
A.  1ater Supply                                 4
B.  11ater Quality and Reliability                4
C.  Sewerage and Sewage Disposal                 5
D. Development Program - Water Supply
and Sewerage                               5
E.  EMergency Program                            5
4. The Project                                           6
A.  Description                                  6
B.  Cost Estimates                               6
C. Design, Construction and Supervision
of Construction                           7
D.  Procurement and Disbursement                 8
5. Justification                                         9
6.  The Proposed Borrower                               11
A.  Organization and Management                 11
B.  Financial Position and Earnings             12
Accounting                              12
Audit                                   13
Balance Sheet                           13
Past Income                             13
C.  Water Rates                                 13
Billings and Collection                 15
Sewerage Rates                          15
7. Future Finances                                      16
A. Financing Plan                               16
B.  Financial Projections                       17
8.  Conclusions and Recommendations                     19
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission consisting of
Ivlessrs. V. Rajagopalan and F. Lamson-Scribner which visited Kingston
in February and July/August, 1968.



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX
1    EKisting Witer Supply Systems of the -ater Commission
2    Detailed Description of Proposed Project
3    Cost Estimates of Proposed Project
4    Construction Schedule
5    Wdater Consumption Statistics and Projections
6    Incremental Return on Proposed Project
7    Organization chart
8    Estimated Balance Sheet, March 31, 1968
9    Summary Income Statements 1964-1968
10    Schedule of Water Rates - Existing and Proposed
11    Estimated Income Statements 1969-1976
12    Estimated Sources and Application of Funds 1969-1976
13    Estimated Balance Sheets, 1969-1976
iAP
Existing Water Works and Proposed Project



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF THE KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY 1D`JECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Water Commission, Kingston, Jamaica has requested a Bank
loan to assist in financing a project to improve and expand the water
supply facilities in the Kingsten area. The loan would be guaranteed by
the Government of Jamaica. This report covers the appraisal of the
proposed project.
ii.       The project has the highest priority in the water supply and
sewerage sector in Jamaica. Demand for water in the Kingston area exceeds
the reliable capacities of the existing sources and new sources of supply
have to be brought into use. The project would provide additional capacity
sufficient to meet estimated demand until about 1976.
iii.      The Ilater Commission is a semi-autonomous agency, responsible
for water and sewerage services in the Kingston area. The Commission
has managed its water supply and sewerage systems reasonably well and is
aware of the need to strengthen middle management in general and financial
control and accounting in particular. Corrective measures are being under-
taken. The Commission should be capable of carrying out the project and
operating the system.
iv.       The project would consist of development of a spring and several
wells to provide the additional supply to the Kingston area. It would in-
clude construction of an intake at the spring, provision of pumps and a
pumping main from the spring to Kingston. En route, water from the wells
included in the project would be pumped into the same main. The water
wjould be chlorinated before distribution. The project also provides for
distribution system improvements and a service reservoir in Kingston.
The total cost is estimated at US$ 9.1 million equivalent, including in-
terest during construction. The proposed Bank loan of US$ 5 million would
cover all of the direct and some of the indirect foreign exchange costs of
the project.  The project is technically sound; estimated costs are reasonabL.e
v.        A public utility type of accounting system has recently been
initiated by the Commission, but for firmly establishing the new system
and the training of personnel, the Commission needs to employ competent
chartered accountants. The Commission also is to establish a new post of
Chief Financial Officer to strengthen its financial management.
vi.       Although almost all service connections are metered, in the past
the water rate schedule did not encourage economic usage. The Commission
has recently adjusted the rates and simplified the structure in order to
earn a return of at least 8%, and to encourage economic usage. Based on
the new rates, the rate of return on the incremental investment would be
about 22%.
vii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 5.0 million equiv-
alent for a period of 20 years, including a four-year grace period.



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF THE KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Water Commission, Kingston, Jamaica (Commission) has applied
for a loan from the Bank to help finance a project to improve and expand
the water supply facilities in the Kingston metropolitan area where there
has been a critical water shortage. The loan would be guaranteed by the
Government of Jamaica.
1.02      The project is estimated to cost about US$ 9.1 million equivalent,
and a loan of Us$ 5.0 million is proposed to cover the foreign exchange
costs including cost of consulting services and interest during construction.
Remaining local currency costs of the project would be financed by funds
generated from internal operations.
1.03      The Bank's first contact with the Commission was in June/July 1966.
At that time the proposal,based on studies by the Commission's consultants,
was to obtain additional water from a new reservoir to be built by damming
the Rio Pedro River at Harkers Hall. The total cost was estimated at about
US$ hO million. A Bank mission examined this proposal and recommended that
further exploitation of ground water and the use of surface water in the
area be considered. To assist the Government of Jamaica, the Bank retained
the services of Leggette, Brashears & Graham, consulting ground water
geologists, New York. A consultant geologist made a field investigation
of the geological and hydrological conditions in the Kingston area during
September 1966 and advised that additional supplies of ground water could
be developed.
1.0h      The Commission's consultants reviewed these recommendations and
proposed two alternative schemes for using both underground and surface
sources in stages. These alternatives were again examined by a Bank mission
in February 1968 and the proposed project to meet the water demand up to
about 1976 was agreed upon.
1.05      The main items of work under the proposed project would include
construction of additional wells and tapping of Tulloch Spring to yield
about 12.5 IMgd, transmission lines to Kingston, and the strengthening of
the existing distribution system. The Commission has already undertaken
an emergency program to utilize 3-5 IMgd from the Ferry River to alleviate
the water shortage during the recent drought. This program was an inherent
part of the proposals reviewed but the pressing need for water demanded
quick implementation; procurement was not in accordance with Bank require-
mnents and it is, therefore, excluded from proposed Bank financing.
1.06      The appraisal of this project is based on information submitted to
the Bank by the Commission, consultants' reports, and on field investigations
by Bank appraisal missions composed of Messrs. Rajagopalan and Lamson-
Scribner in February and July-August 1968.



- 2   -
2. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEERAGSE SECTOR IN JAMAICA
A. Relation to Jamaican Economy
2.01      The island of Jamaica covers an area of about 4,411 square miles
(20% larger than Puerto Rico or Cyprus) and has a population of about 1.9
million. In recent years the natural increase in population has been
about 3. per year wYhich was reduced to an actua1 rato of abVout_ 2% due to
emigration. The density of population per square mile is about 420 which
is high; more significant is the density per square mile of agricultural
land which is estimated at 1,050 persons. Population pressure in the rural
area, together with inadequate opportunities for employment, has intensi-
fied migration to the urban areas.
2.02      Some 30% of Jamaica's population lives in the parishes of Kingstorn
and St. Andrew (Metropolitan Kingston), where population growth has
averaged about 1l% per annum during the past decade. In Kingston parish,
which covers only ten square miles, the population density is 13,650 per
square mile, and the growth in density over the past two decades has been
about 25%, whereas in the adjacent parish of St. Andrew the density is
2,271 per square mile corresponding to a threefold increase in the same
period.
2.03      During the period 1963-67, the average annual growth for the over-
all economy was about 5%. Significant growth in manufacturing has taken
place and employment in manufacturing has been rising. About 55% of all
factories in Jamaica are located in M4etropolitan Kingston.
2.04      The tourist sector in Jamaica has been expanding rapidly and
emerging as the second most important earner of foreign exchange after
mineral products. Wlith Government encouragement, the outlook for con-
tinued growth of tourism appears bright. The growth of tourism on the
island as a whole directly affects the Kingston area both in terms of
increased tourist population and need for services in Kingston and in-
directly in increasing related business and commercial activities as a
result of tourism elsewhere.
2.05      The continuing growth of Metropolitan Kingston demands the pro-
vision of adequate water supply as an essential infrastructure. Populatior
of this area is expected to continue to increase at about 4% per annum
during the next decade. The situation in the Kingston area presents the
single largest problem in the water supply sector in Jamaica at present.
B. Administrative Structure
2 .06     The provision of water supply and sewerage services in Jamaica
has been regarded as a responsibility of the 14 local parish councils on
the island with the exception of two adjacent parishes - Kingston and St.
Alndrew, known together as the Corporate Area, where the responsibility has
been assigned to the Water Commission (paragraph 2.08).



2.07      Outside Kingston there are only a few towns with most of the
population residing in semi-urban and rural communities. Most of these
communities have access either to a public water supply system or to
natural water courses or wells. In 1963, the Government established the
National Water Authority (NWA) to promote the development of economic
water supply systems outside the Corporate Area. It is responsible for
providing, improving, operating and maintaining water supply and sewerage
services. To date, Government's policy decisions have restricted the NWA
to the producticn and sale in bulk of water to the parish councils and
retained in the parish councils the responsibility for maintenance and
operation of the distribution systems, for dealing with individual con-
sumers and for prescribing and collecting water rates. The NWA has carrie(d
out a number of small water supply projects and the first phase of the
Montego Bay sewerage scheme. With US AID financial assistance, feasibility
studies have been made for water supply schemes in Montego Bay, Grange
Hill/Little London, Spanish Town, Dornoch and Morant Bay. Bilateral
financing for these projects is being explored.
2.08      The Corporate Area covers the Kingston metropolitan area, the
capital and commercial center of Jamaica. The provision of piped water
supplies has been more vigorously pursued in the urban portion of this
area than elsewhere. The first Kingston water works wqas inaugurated in
1809. Since then, seven different authorities have guided the affairs of
the Water 1%krks.  The present organization, the Wgater Commission, was es-
tablished in 1936, and is responsible for providing both water supply and
sewerage services in the Corporate Area. During its existence over the
past 30 years, the Commission has steadily expanded its water supply
facilities with the growth in demand due to population increases and ex-
pansions of area of supply. The sewerage services, however, have not
growm simultaneously, and organized public sewerage systems exist only in
certain sections. A feasibility study for sewerage in Kingston is to be
started shortly.
2.09      The future sources of water for the Corporate Area are located
outside its legal boundaries. In order to ensure proper development and
utilization of the water resources in the region, the NWA and the Commis-
sion have set up a joint committee. Assurances have been obtained from
Government that the Commission has the right to abstract wrater from the
proposed sources and that further abstraction from the same areas that
might prejudice the yield from the project sources would not be permitted.
2.10      There are no sewerage schemes outside Kingston and Montego Bay.
As most of the communities are small in size, septic tanks and seepage pits
are used.



-14-
3.  EXISTING WATER AND SEVRAGE FACILITIES IN KINGSTON
AND ST. ANDREW AND DEVELOFvIENT PROGRAM
A. IWJater Supply
3.01      The Commission's water supply system covers an area of about
55 square miles.  Supply is derived from both ground and surface water
sources.  The !,tg Water and Hope River catchments provide the main surface
sources and have been developed in stages. WT;ater from these sources under-
goes filtration arid chlorination before distribution; supply is mainly
by gravity. The surface sources have a long-term maintainable yield of
about 21 INgd.  Water from wells located in different parts of the supply
area is pumped into the distribution system after chlorination. The
existing wells have a maintainable yield of about 12 IMgd during normal
years. Details of existing facilities are given in Annex 1 and illustrated
on the YNap.
3.02      There are no private surface water supply systems in the area.
The Commission has authority to control the development and use of wells.
There are some private wells which are used almost exclusively for in-
dustrial, commercial and institutional purposes. Water for domestic
purposes is drawin entirely from the Commission's piped water system.
3.03      The Commission serves an estimated 500,000 people, over 90%
of the population in the Corporate Area, through some 700 miles of water
mains of various sizes. There are about 50,000 service connections and
60 public standpipes. It is estimated that about 66% of the consumption
is by domestic users, 20% by commercial and industrial users, and l% by
Government agencies and others. There are pronounced seasonal and annual
variations in usage. The maximum daily usage is about 25% higher than the
daily average.  Per capita consumption has averaged 60 gallons per day
except during years of drought or natural calamities.
B. 1ater Quality and Reliability
3-04      The Cormission maintains a well equipped laboratory supervised
by a competent sanitary engineer. The results of regular tests indicate
that the water supplied is bacteriologically safe.   A close watch is
maintained over chloride content in well waters, and wells showing ex-
cessive chlorides are shut down until the quality improves. In 1968,
however, because of the acute shortage of water, well waters with high
chloride content had to be used.
3.05     1Water pressures are quite high and because of the large differ-
ences in elevation of the city, pressure reducing valves are utilized in
many parts of the distribution system. Service has been continuous except
for one recent period when supplies were restricted due to drought.



- 5-
C. Sewerage and Sewage Disposal
3.06      The Commission operates sanitary sewerage systems serving approxi-
mately 90,000 people in some of the older sections of Kingston and in new
housing developments. The remaining area is served by seepage pits and
septic tanks. Two primary sewage treatment plants treat sewage from the
Kingston area and two extended aeration plants serve certain new housing
developments. The Kingston and St, Andrew Corporation and some private
contractors operate septictank emptying services. The Commission accepts
the delivery of the septic tank contents at its sewage pumping station
and collects a fee for this service.
D. Development Program - Water Supply and Sewerage
3.07      Over the next 3 years the Commission proposes to spend about
'J 6 million (about US$ 14 million equivalent) to expand and improve its
water supply system. Beyond that no firm plans have been made but feasi-
bility studies for the Harkers Hall and Mahagony Vale projects have been
carried out and other possible sources are under investigation. The main
component in the present program is the project for Bank finance (hJ 3.8
million). The major part of the balance is for the stabilization of the
existing Hermitage Dam; this work has not yet been started. Distribution
system extensions, minor source development and the emergency program men-
tioned in paragraph 1.05 and discussed further in paragraph 3.10 account for
the remainder. These are all under construction. The present program would
be sufficient to meet the Corporate Area's water needs until about 1976.
3.08      In the absence of a sewerage plan for the Corporate Area, the
Commission has been undertaking mainly ad hoc sewerage schemes for some
communities and some extension and improvement works in the industrial area
of Western Kingston. Over the period 1969-72, the Commission proposes to
spend about MJ 2 million on sewerage schemes under construction and minor
sewer extensions. Finance for these works is provided by Government and
bilateral sources.
3.09      Proposals for making a study of the sewerage and drainage problencl
in Kingston have been under consideration for some years. A feasibility
study financed by a Canadian loan is to be undertaken shortly for preparing
a comprehensive sewerage scheme.
E. Emergency Program
3.10      The emergency program (paragraph 1.05) has been undertaken in view
of the prolonged drought in the area which resulted in the average daily
production decreasing from 30.2 IMgd during 1966/67 to 27.9 IMgd during
1967/68. This program, estimated to cost about LJ 300,000 is being financed
by a Government loan. It involves activation of some existing wells, more
intensive exploitation of ground water, and the use of 3-5 IMgd of somewhat
sgaline water from springs feeding the Ferry River. The activation of exist-
ing wells has been done, and new wells have been drilled. Construction of
the Ferry River scheme is underway. This scheme has been designed to fit
in with the proposed project.  Water from this source must be diluted witl
water from the proposed project sources before distribltico ex:.31t i}
emergency.



- 6 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.ol      The proposed project, which constitutes about 60% of the Commis-
sion's water supply program for 1969-1972, would derive water from two unde;-
ground sources (i) Tulloch Spring, about 20 miles from Kingston, and (ii)
wells in the Spanish Town area, about 12 miles from Kingston, which will be
called "Headvnrks wells". Tulloch Spring yields at least 7.5 IMgd during
years of normal rainfall and an average supply of 5 IMgd is proposed from
the Headworks wells. A detailed project description is given in Annex 2,
and the locations of the proposed works are shown on the Map.
4.02      The project would include intake works, pumps, and chlorinating
equipment at Tulloch Spring, and a pumping main from Tulloch to Kingston.
En route, a balancing reservoir would be provided. Suitable existing wells
in the Spanish Town area would be purchased and a few new wells would be
drilled and equipped with pumps. The well waters would be chlorinated and
pumped into the Tulloch-Kingston main. Somewhat saline water from the Ferry
River scheme (emergency program) would also be pumped into the Tulloch-
Kingston main and diluted with water from the project sources to acceptable
salinity levels before distribution.
4.03      Water from the project would be distributed through existing and
proposed mains into the lower zones of the Kingston distribution system and
also sold in bulk to NWA for distribution in Spanish Town and adjacent areaw.
Service storage would be increased by constructing a one-million gallon
reservoir at Harbour View. Two booster pumping stations would be estab-
lished and additional distribution mains would be laid to strengthen the
system. In order that water can be taken from Tulloch Spring without re-
ducing the flow available in the Rio Cobre for irrigation, the project also
includes provision for the development of additional wells which would pump
water into the river during low water periods offsetting the diverted flow
of Tulloch Spring.
B.  Cost Estimates
4.04      The total cost of the project is estimated to be about UJ 3.8
million (equivalent to about US$ 9.1 million). The proposed Bank loan of
US$ 5.0 million equivalent of 55% of total project cost would cover the
foreign exchange costs of material and equipment procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, part of the foreign ex'change component
of locally produced goods and of civil works contracts, foreign exchange
costs of consulting services and interest during construction. The cost
estimate follows and is given in detail in Annex 3, which also gives the
estimated expenditures year by year, during the construction and disburse-
ment period 1969-1972.



Project Cost Estimate
InE J                  In US$
Local   Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign   Tct&
-              -    Thousands -    -  - -  -
Tulloch Springs Intake & Pumps     39      67     106       94     161     2
Headworks Wells & Booster Pumps   102     107     209     245      257      '
River Flow Augmentation *l1s       58      50     108     139      120
Tulloch-Kingston Transmission     634     927   13561   1,521   2,225    3,7L.&
Service Reservoir & Balancing
Reservoir                      129      23     152      310      55      6
Distribution Mains                182     262      444     437     628   1,1 06
Housing                            25       -       25      60       -
Land                                8                8      19       -      L
Sub-total                    1,177   1,436   2,613    2,825   3,446   63,;
Contingencies                     2h3     148     391      583     355
Price Escalation                  120      74     194     288     178
Consulting Services               167     133      300     401     319
Sub-total                    1,707   1,791   3,498   4,097    4,298   8,2r
I-nterest during Construction       -      277     277       _     665     6C.
Total                        1,707   2,068   3,775   4,097    4,963    ,(-
=20==                   =01 x-m 1J1"=    V- S_-.
Construction costs are derived from estimates made by the consultants anid
are based on preliminary designs for the project, results of recent bids fur
similar works in Jamaica and the West Indies, and on current quotations fol-
equipment and materials. Indirect foreign exchange expenditures of about
US$ 40G,000 on locally procured goods and services are included under
local costs. The estimate includes a provision for price increases of ahou<
10% on local costs and 5% on foreign costs and a contingency provision of
about 20% on local costs and 10% on foreign costs. A higher contingency
has been allowed on local costs which consist of pipe laying and civil workl'
expenditures mainly because of the difficult terrain in which the Tulloch-
Kingston main has to be laid and the site conditions at Tulloch Spring hfP.
works. The estimated cost of consulting services include detailed engineei'-
ing, preparation of contract documents and supervision of construction. '.^X
cost estimates and the underlying assumptions are reasonable.   The propos,xi
oroject is expected to be completed in about three years. A constructiorn
s;chedule is shown in Annex 4.
'.. Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction
t .05     Howard Humphreys & Sons, a British firm of engineering consul.ail.
,ho made the feasibility studies for this project has been retained by t'.v
oimmission to prepare detailed designs and tender documents, to eval'a     :



- 8 -
and to supervise construction. It is essential that the Commission closely
review the work of the consultant and provide the necessary coordination
with other authorities, in order to accomplish the project on schedule.
h.06      Substantial changes were made in the project during appraisal,
and it was agreed that the consultants would submit to the Commission and
the Bank for review and approval, the detailed designs for the various com-
ponents before preparing tender documents. This arrangement is satisfactcry.
To avoid delay, the Commission started detailed engineering at the time of
project appraisal. It is proposed that the Bank should reimburse the foreign
exchange costs of consulting services incurred by the Commission on the
project after July 1, 1968.
t.07      The Commission would be responsible for the proposed project. Con-
struction is expected to be done entirely by contractors, except for drilling
and testing of wells. The Commission is utilizing an existing well drilling
rig provided to the Government under a UNDP (SF) project for a ground water
survey for the drilling and testing of Headworks wells.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
h.08      The procurement of goods from abroad is regulated by the Ministry
of Trade under the Trade Law. A system of import control by licensing is
operated in respect of imports from certain countries or of certain items
listed by the Ministry. The borrowier will have to obtain special permission
from Governnent to adopt the Bank's procurement procedures. However, no
special problems are envisaged in this regard and the items to be financed
by the Bank loan would be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under Bank loans. Dis-
bursements would be against the actual foreign exchange costs or against
the foreign exchange component of locally manufactured goods and services.
4.09      Local manufacturers are expected to compete for the supply of cer-
tain goods. It was agreed during negotiations that a margin of preference
to local manufacturers of 15% or the amount of customs duty whichever is
lower would be provided. Construction contracts will also be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. It is expecWed, however, that
local firms would be successful in obtaining these contracts. Only the
foreign exchange component of such contracts would be eligible for Bank
reimbursement.
h.1O      In the event of there being any savings in the foreign exchange
costs, it is proposed to use the balance of the loan for further distributio-
system extensions and improvements, the need for which might develop in the
next three years. These would be subject to approval by the Bank. Other-
wise the unused balance of the loan would be cancelled.



- 9 -
5. JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The Government of Jamaica accords a high priority to the provisict
of adequate water supply to Kingston, the capital and largest city in Jamaica.
During the past few years, Government has been supporting feasibility studie',
for possible projects to bring additional amounts of water to Kingston.
5.02      The existing water supply facilities in the area are being fully
utilized. During a drought in 1967-68, the Commission had to place restric-
tions on the use of water. While the production needed to meet demand was
over 30 IMgd, actual production during the drought was less than 28 DMgd.
The emergency program undertaken by the Commission will help to tide over
this situation, but is not adequate to fully meet the future needs. The
proposed project, which would utilize new fresh water sources, is therefore
an urgent and essential measure. Upon completion of the proposed project,the
supply to the metropolitan area would be increased on the average by about
12.5 IMgd. This additional capacity is expected to be fully utilized by
1976-77 according to the following assumptions.
5.03      The past consumption and forecasts of demand are shown in Annex 5.
From 1961 to 1968, the population in Kingston has increased at an average
rate of about 4% per annum. This growth has been due to intensive migraticn
from other parts of Jamaica as well as the natural increase in population.
It is expected that growth would continue at about this rate during the
next few years at least. With the expansion of Kingston harbor, and the
proposals for redevelopment of the Twater front areas of old Kingston and
construction of a causeway across Hunts Bay linking downtown Kingston with
communities to be developed to the west, further rapid urbanization of the
area is anticipated. Already a number of new housing developments have
been built and others are under planning and construction, and water supply
will have to be extended to these areas. In addition, Government's efforts
and policies in the development of tourism have been very successful and arny
water supply development should take into consideration the tourist sector
requirements.
5.04      While wiater consumption forecasts based on these estimates of pOpli--
lation to be served seem reasonable, the higher water rates recently intro-
duced may reduce water usage up to 10%. This is based on indications that
demand was reduced about 10% when the Commission raised rates temporarily
in 1968 because of drought. In most cases reduction in water consumption
after a water rate increase is temporary and demand returns to original
levels rapidly. If the reduction is not temporary, demand projections
could be set back by a period of up to two years. This would result in the
postponement of the next construction phase by a similar period.
5.05      A number of alternative sources of water for the Kingston area were
considered by the consultants including impoundment dams at Harkers Hall or
l1ahagony Vale, desalination of sea water or brackish river water and use of
ground water and surface sources. Different systems for treating and de-
livering water to the populated area were also examined. The proposed
project wias selected as the most economic of the alternatives after a cz-
parison using a discount rate of 10%.



- 10 -
5.o6      If demand grows in accordance with the forecast, the incremental
rate of return for the proposed project is estimated to be about 22%, (see
Annex 6, page 1) on the basis of the new w*ater rates (paragraph 6.17). Or.
the other hand, if demand projections are set back two years due to higher
water rates, the incremental rate of return would be reduced to about i6%4,
(see Annex 6, page 2). These rates of return are calculated valuing the
water sold at the new rates from 1969 onwards. This method of calculation
results in an understatement of the project's benefits. Consumers' al-
ternative methods of obtaining water would be costlier than the supply of
water through the proposed water system.



- 11 -
6. THE PROPOSED BORROWER
A. Organization and Management
6.01      The Commission is a semi-autonomous agency which operates under
the Kingston and St. Andrew (Water Commission) Law of January 1937 as
amended. It must submit its annual budget for approval to the Ministry of
Local Government, the governmental agency responsible for its affairs.
6.02      The Commission is administered by a board of nine members inclu-
ding the Chairman; all are appointed by the Minister of Local Government.
The Chairman, who is also the Chief Executive Officer, exercises most
powers on a day-to-day basis with the assistance of an engineering depart-
ment under a chief engineer and an administrative office under a secretary,"
manager. Government has agreed to ensure that the Chief Executive Officer
of the Borrower would at all times be appropriately qualified and competenlt.
An organization chart, with a summary of functions of the various sections,
is given in Annex 7. The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) has
furnished advisory services to the Commission on organization and proceduras..
6.03      The Commission has powers to appoint and dismiss its own staff.
Vacancies in sanctioned staff positions are filled by recruitment made by
the Commission. Approval of Government is required for creating additional
posts.
6.o0      The Commission's top management is dedicated and experienced. Mosil
of the senior staff, however, are near the retirement age and there is a
shortage of second-line management, as the entry of new staff into the or-
ganization has been slow. This deficiency is recognized by the Commission
and efforts are underway to recruit and train second-line personnel. Salary
levels constitute a major problem and the Commission is negotiating with
Government to obtain approval of higher salaries. The Commission proposes
to utilize fellowships made available by PAHO for necessary training of
personnel abroad. The training of operators will be undertaken locally.
6.05      The Commission utilizes the services of consultants for engineerirng,
design and supervision of construction of major water supply improvements
and sewerage works. Howard Humphreys & Sons, engineering consultants, has
been closely associated with the Commission since 1935 and has carried out
all the major studies, project preparation and supervision of construction
of the Commission's water supply improvements. All major works are execute-i
through contractors.
6.06      The financial affairs of the Commission are currently the re-
sponsibility of the secretary/manager who is assisted by a chief accountant.
The Commission is to establish within one year from the date of the loan
agreement, a new post of chief financial officer to strengthen this aspect
of operations.



- 12 -
6.07      The Commission has a permanent staff of about 913 (152 in the
engineering department, 122 in the secretary's office and 669 miscellaneou_1
technical and non-technical staff classified as weekly paid staff) and
approximately 700 laborers are engaged every year on a part-time basis. TIi-
Commission performs plumbing services for its customers, a service usually
provided by private plumbers, which is partly responsible for the large
number of personnel employed.  Nevertheless, the number of personnel is
higher than needed. The Commission has agreed to limit hiring new staff
in the future until this situation is remedied.
6.08      The staff of the Commission does not form part of the Civil
Service, but the Commission provides comparable pension and other benefits.
Non-supervisory personnel are labor union members and there have been
frequent disputes over pay increases. The substantial increase in labor
costs between 1967 and 1968 was due to a tribunal award and another increasec
was granted in September 1968.
6.09      The water supply systems in the "Corporate Area" lhave been
reasonably well operated and satisfactorily maintained, and the Commissioni,
assisted by its consultants, should be able to carry out the proposed pro-
ject satisfactorily.
B. Financial Position and Earnings
Accounting
6.10      In the past, the Commission has maintained its accounts on a cash
basis and separately for water supply and sewerage services. There were no
property accounts and depreciation was not recorded. As the loans which
financed assets were repaid the value of such assets was eliminated from
the balance sheet.  In view of this procedure, the published balance sheets
of the Commission do not indicate fixed assets, depreciation, accounts re-
ceivable or bad debts.
6.11      The past system of accounting has not provided adequate financial
data for efficient management or information for the financial evaluation
of the undertaking. The Commission recognized this deficiency and engaged
Price Waterhouse & Company as accounting consultants to formulate financial
statements from available records, for purposes of the IBRD appraisal of
the proposed project. To effect a permanent changeover from the existing
system to a public utility accrual type of accounting system, the Commissiae-
sought and obtained assistance from PAH0. The advisory services provided
by PAIIO included an accounting advisor who helped to develop and introducs
an accrual type of accounting system during mid-1968. Although the initial
changeover to the new system has been made, full implementation and trainirio
of personnel will take some time and the Commission will be in need of
further assistance in this respect. The Commission agreed during negotia-
tions to employ qualified accountants acceptable to the Bank to assist in
establishing sound accrual accounting practices applicable to public
utilities.



- 13 -
Auclit
6.12      The accounts of the Commission are audited by the Auditor General
of the Government of Jamaica.  The audit primarily consists of verificaticn
of actual expenditures incurred and comparison with the budget which had
previously been submitted to Government. The Auditor General does not have
sufficient staff to carry out the full commercial type of audit normally
required by the Bank. The Commission will, therefore need the services of
an independent auditor. This audit could be done solely by chartered
accountants, or could be basically done by chartered accountants with the
Auditor General having the overall responsibility. Both arrangements have
functioned successfully with other public authorities in Jamaica. The
Commission has agreed to have its accounts audited annually by independent
qualified accountants.
Balance Sheet
6.13      The estimated balance sheet as at March 31, 1968, is provided in
Annex 8. This balance sheet has been constructed from available financial
data; fixed asset accounts have not been audited (such accounts were not
maintained), but it is not expected that audit would change the accounts
adversely. The balance sheet should be revised in accordance with the
position developed by the chartered accountant, (see paragraph 6.11), which
will take time;  holding up the loan for such an audit is not justified.
Despite the exclusion of some assets, the 1968 balance sheet shows a satis-
factory position. The ratios of current assets to current liabilities at
3.8 and debt at about 34% of total capitalization are satisfactory.
Past Income
6.14      Income statements for the five years ending iqarch 31, 1968 are
summarized in Annex 9. Over the last four years there has been a steady
decline in earnings as revenues stayed reasonably constant, but operating
costs and financial charges increased substantially. Despite a modest
Government subsidy every year, the sewerage side of the Commission's
business has operated at a loss during the entire five years necessitating
transfer of funds from water operations.  Sewerage rates wiere increased sub-
stantially in 1967-68, but water rates remained constant from 1962 to 1968.
6.15      The current earnings position of the Commission is quite adverse.
For the year ending March 31, 1969, a loss of 4.J 350,000 is estimated, after
charging depreciation of about UJ 500,000.
C. Water Rates
o.16      Almost all water service connections are metered, except public
standpipes and fire hydrants. Until April, 1969, the rate schedule estab-
lished a minimum monthly charge and a specific volume of water based on
the taxable appraised value of a property and a rate per thousand gallons
for wiater in excess of the specified volume.  Exemption from payment of



- 14 -
rates is made to a few consumers, principally schools. There are a small
number of public taps for which a base charge per month per person is levied.
One perscn in each community served by a public tap is responsible for col-
lecting the revenue and paying it to the Commission.
6.17      Consultants provided under the PAHO advisory services team to the
Commission made a detailed study of the existing rate structure and rates
and their recommendations were discussed with the Bank, the Commission and
the representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Local Government. A
simlpler rate structure and new water rates were put into effect from April 1,
1969.  It includes a monthly service charge and a charge of 2sh/l,000 gallonr
for the first 3,000, 3sh 6d/1,000 gallons for the second 3,000 gallons and
6sh/l,000 gallons for consumption in excess of 6,000 gallons for domestic
consumers. Commercial and industrial consumers are charged 7sh/l,000 gallori-
For the domestic consumers, the lower rate would provide a reasonable
quantity of water to maintain sariitary standards and the higher rates are
expected to reduce uneconomic consumption. These rates are higher than
the existing rates in other parts of the island and reflect the concept of
obtaining a return on assets rather than just covering operating costs and
debt service.
6.18      Revenues obtained from the revised rates will be sufficient to
yield a return on net fixed assets in service of over 10% until the project
is completed; a small rate increase then will be necessary to provide a
return of 8% or more. Cash generated is expected to be sufficient to cover
the costs of minor annual expansions and contribute a portion of the cost of
the proposed project and the next major program in the future.
6.19      The Government and Commission have agreed to maintain water rates
at a level sufficient to yield a minimum rate of return of 8% on reasonably
valued iwater supply system assets in service, and to make an annual review.
6.20      Changes in water rates are initiated by the Commission and sub-
mitted to the Minister of Local Government for approval.   One to three
months are required to effect a rate change.
6.21      In addition to the water rates, the customers pay the cost of
connecting to the water main excluding the cost of the meter which is pro-
vided by the Commission. The average connection charge is UJ 12.
6.22      In the case of housing developments, the developers provide at
their cost the distribution system in accordance with the Comrission's
specifications. After completion, however, the system becomes the property
of the Commission and is maintained by it at its own cost. Costs incurred
in the installation of public fire hydrants are billed by the Commission to
either subdivision developers or the Kingston and St. Andrew Corporation.
Maintenance of hydrants is carried out by the Commission and charged to the
Kingston and St. Andrew Corporation or to private property owners, as
appropriate.



A15 -
Billings and Collection
6.23      Service meters are read monthly.  Bills are sent out monthly,
mostly by mail, and payments are made either through the mail or in person
at the Commission's office.
6.24      Bills are usually dispatched within one week of the meter reading,
and payments normally take place during the month following the month to
which they relate. Customers are given 30 days grace for payment of bills
and there are no penalties or rebates for delayed or prompt payments.   How--
ever, as -water supplies are only cut off for accounts in arrears at the end
of each quarter, consumers have from one to four months to pay bills.
Approximately 12,000 connections are locked off annually. Of these, some
1,500 connections are physically cut off and the meter removed. In most
cases, services locked off or cut off for non-payment are eventually re-
connected or reopened. Uncollected accounts or bad debts are negligible.
Sewerage Rates
6.25      The costs of providing sewage and waste disposal services by the
Commission are primarily met by a tax levy on all properties connected to
the sewierage system. The sewierage taxes are collected by the Government
Collector of Taxes and passed to the Commission together with certain grarts
from Government. Revenue obtained from sewerage taxes is now sufficient to
meet the costs of operating the system. During negotiations, Government
agreed that the rates and other changes levied for sewerage and waste dis-
posal services together with funds provided by Government if necessary,
will be sufficient to cover costs in the future.



- 16 -
7. FUTURE FINANCES
A. Financing Plan
7.01      A forecast of sources and application of funds for the years
1969-1976 is attached as Annex 12. The financing plan for the years of
project implementation 1969-1972 is summarized below:
Total Total
1969- 1969-
1969   1970   1971   1972   1972   1972
mL   7 TT         (l J )   (7J  (TJT   TS f,s Bu IJ
- -  -  - -   -   000 s-
Application of Funds
Construction - Wlater
Proposed Project I!               -  1,836  1,096    166   3,498  8,395
Prior Programs                  736    616     600    400  2,352  5,o65
Future Programs                   -      -       -    500    500  1,200
Construction - Sewerage           744    980    105    205  2,031   4,882
Increase in Accounts Receivable    9S    200      -    100    399    958
Decrease in Accounts Payable      184      -      -       -    181   4L1
Total                         1,763  3,632  2,201  1,371  8,967 21,521
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation          424 1,579   1,774 1,777   5,554 13,330
Les3:  D6+t Service                393    715 1,00b  1,098   3,240  7,776
Net Cash Generation                31    834    770    679  2,314  5,554
Proposed IBRD Loan                  - 1,277     649    142  2,068   4,963
Government Loans:
Prior Programs                1,186  1,555     705   605   4,051  9,722
Cash Resources -                  546      34)    77    55)    534  1,282
Reduction (Increase)
Total                         1,763  3,632  2,201   1,371  8,967 21,521
1/  excludes interest during construction which is deducted under debt
service.
7.02      Total program costs for both water and sewerage for the period
1969-1972 are estimated at UJ 9 million. The proposed Bank loan of about
UJ 2 million would cover 23% of the program, self-generated funds would
amount to about UJ 2.3 million or 26%, and loans from Government would total
about UJ 4 million or 45%; cash resources would be drawn down about UJ C-5
million to cover the other 6% of the program.   The loans from Government }'57e



- 17   -
either been approved or will be approved before undertaking specific pro-
jects. The Commission's contribution to the program is limited because
water rates in the past were not sufficient to provide a reserve toward
major programs. In addition, the total program includes substantial ex-
penditures for sewerage works which, to date, Government has elected to
cover through loans rather than by increasing sewerage rates to cover part
of project costs.
7.03      The proposed Bank loan of US$ 5.0 million is assumed to carry
interest at 613j. Based on the nature of the project, a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of four years is proposed.
7.04      This financing plan is satisfactory.  During negotiations,
Government agreed to make available or cause to be made available, all
funds needed to complete the project as well as funds needed for other
programs approved. Terms on such loans would be satisfactory to the Bank.
B. Financial Projections
7.05      Estimated income statements for the period 1969-1976 are shown
in Annex 11. These forecasts are based on water rates in effect on April 1,
1969, with an increase of about 6% after project completion in order to
ensure an 8% return on net plant in service, and that sewerage operations
wTill break even, either through charging higher rates or through Government
subsidy. Depreciation charges are included. These statements assume water
sales projections based on extrapolation of past trends. If demand and
sales are reduced due to recently introduced higher water rates, these pro-
Jections would be optimistic and rates would have to be adjusted.
7.06      Based on these projections, debt service coverage is at least
1.6 for the 1970-1976 period, which is adequate (see Annex 12).
7.07      It should be noted that this project is expected to take care of
wTater demands up to about the year 1976, the end of the financial projections.
To meet demand in 1977 and beyond, a large new program will have to be urnei-
taken, and construction on this may have to start in 1972 or shortly there-
after. There are a number of possible ways of bringing more water to the
Kingston area; studies are not sufficiently advanced to indicate the
economically most desirable alternative and its cost (paragraph 3.07). Over
the 1972-1976 five-year span, it is expected that at the rates assumed, the
enterprise would generate about EJ 2.4 million (US$ 5.8 million equivalent)
to meet all or part of the cost of the new program which will then be
necessary. A sewerage program in that period may also be needed.
7.08      Estimated balance sheet positions for 1969-1976 are shown in
Annex 13. These carry forward the estimated 1968 balance sheet which did
not include most sewerage assets or balancing equity. The Commission is
expected to be in satisfactory financial position with debt never more than
half of total capital, and current assets to current liabilities ratios in
excess of 2.5.



7.09      The Borrower has agreed that additional long-term debt would
not be incurred by it or on its behalf, unless net revenues for the
previous year provided debt service coverage on existing and proposed
debt of at least 1.5 times.



- 19 -
8. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The proposed project offers the most practical and economic
solution for solving the immediate water shortage problems in the Kingston
area and provides water to meet the requirements up to about 1976. The
proposed project would yield an additional supply of 12.5 IMgd on the
average, strengthen the distribution system in the Corporate Area and pro-,
vide the time needed for a thorough study and determination of the most
economic project for implementation as the next stage of development.
8.02      The project cost estimates are reasonable, the financing plan is
satisfactory, and the construction schedule is realistic. The Commission
has operated and maintained its water supply systems satisfactorily, is
familiar with the type of facilities proposed under the project and,
assisted by its consultants, should be able to carry out the project satis-
factorily. The Commission has a sound asset base. Its current earnings
position is weak, but will improve through the substantial increases in
wiater rates recently adopted.
8.03      During negotiation of the proposed Bank loan, agreement satis-
factory to the Bank was obtained on the following:
a)   The Commission would have the right to abstract water
from the proposed sources and that any further abstrac-
tion of water from the same areas which might have a
detrimental effect on the project sources would not be
permitted (paragraph 2.09);
b)   The Commission would strengthen its financial management
with the appointment of a chief financial officer within
a year (paragraph 6.06);
c)   The Commission would engage the services of competent
qualified accountants acceptable to the Bank for assisting
in establishing accrual accounting practices applicable
to public utilities (paragraph 6.11);
d)   The Commission would engage independent qualified accountants
acceptable to the Bank, to carry out an annual audit of its
accounts (paragraph 6.12);
e)   The Commission would maintain water rates sufficient to
provide revenues representing a return of not less than
8% on the average net fixed assets in operation in its
water supply system (paragraph 6.19);
f)   Rates and other charges levied for sewerage and waste dis-
posal services together with funds provided by Government
if necessary, would be sufficient to provide revenues to
cover the costs of operating the sewerage system
(paragraph 6.25);



- 20 -
g)   Government wqould provide to the Commission necessary
funds to complete the project and to undertake other
approved construction programs on terms satisfactory
to the Bank (paragraph 7.04);
h)   Additional long-term debt would not be incurred by or
on behalf of the Commission unless the net revenues
were at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service re-
quirement to be incurred (paragraph 7.09).
8.04      With the above agreements the proposed project provides a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$ 5.0 million equivalent for a period
of 20 years including a four-year grace period.
April 9, 1969



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3 pages
JAMAICA - KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Water Supply Systems of the WAater Commission
General
The water supply to the "Corporate Area,, is derived from under-
ground and surface water sources. Small streams to the north and north-
east of Kingston in the Wag Water and Hope catchments provide the exist-
ing surface supply. The underground water sources consist of wells
located in the limestone formations and alluvial soils in the area.
Surface Sources
(i) Wag Water Catchment
This catchment has been developed in stages to serve as the
principal source of water for Kingston. Originally, there was direct ab-
straction from the TWkag liater River but subsequently the Hermitage Dam was
constructed to impound the flow of the river and one of its tributaries,
the Moresham River. Under later stages of development intakes were con-
structed on other tributaries (viz) Mt. Cressy, Tweedside, Pulper, Water-
fall Andover, Ivlullet Hall, Boar and Ginger Rivers. These intakes have
been located with a view to enable supply by gravity either to the
Hermitage Dam or to the treatment works located at Constant Springs. Raw
water from the Ginger River intakes also feeds the treatment works at
'Sea View'. A further stage of development envisages the pumping of water
from the Wag !W,Tater River into one of the gravity mains whenever required.
The long-term maintainable yield available from these sources is about 16
IMgd. During the recent drought period, however, the Commission was
able to derive only 14 lMgd. The reservoir formed by the Hermitage Dam
impounds some 300 1Mg.   It is badly silted and due to a variety of causes
the desilting operations started a few years ago have not progressed satis-
factorily. The Commission's engineering consultants have raised quiestions
on the stability of the dam. The question of strengthening and increasing
the height of the dam to impound more water was considered by the Commis-
sion; heightening the dam has been abandoned as being too costly. However,
the dam is proposed to be strengthened in order to ensure its stability.
(ii) Hope River Catchment
Water is taken directly from the river to the Hope treatment
works. When river flow is in excess of demand, the excess water is di-
verted to the Mona reservoir, an open storage reservoir with a total
capacity of 825 D1g constructed in 19h7. This reservoir developed severe
leaks soon after completion of construction and remedial works carried out
since then have reduced the leaks considerably, and the present loss is
thought to be between 1.0 and 1.5 IMgd when the reservoir is half full.
A continuing program for reducing leakage is underway. The maintainable
yield from the reservoir and the river is about 5 IMgd. Water from the
Mona reservoir is either pumped to the Hope treatment works or delivere-'
by gravity to the slow sand filters at 'Cavaliers'.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
(iii) Raw ttater Mains
Some 27 miles of steel mains of different sizes (16"1 to 3311
diameter) convey the raw water from the various intakes to the treatment
plants. These mains are stated to be in good condition.
Treatment Plants
(iv) Sea View
A rapid sand filter plant with a rated capacity of 1. IMgd at
this location treats water from Ginger River, and supplies the high level
areas north of Kingston.
(v) Constant Springs.
Work is in progress to increase the capacity of the existing
rapid sand filter plant with a rated capacity of 12 IMgd to 18 DIgd. An
additional clariflocculator unit has been added and the existing 12 filter
beds are to be used for dealing wqith the increased flow by changing the
filter media, if necessary. Arrangements are underway for testing the use
of anthracite filter media in one of the filters.
(vi) Hope Filters
Six slow sand filters with a total filtering area of 1.12 acres
are used to treat the Hope River water.  These filters have a rated capa-
city of 3.6 to 4.8 Ifgd and are able to treat up to 6.5 fl4gd when needed.
(vii) Cavaliers
A 2.6 Thlg raw wqater settling basin, four slow sand filters with
a total area of 0.92 acres and a 3.2 ETIg capacity open filtered w-rater
reservoir are in existence. These works substantially in their present
form were completed in 1876. The rated capacity of this treatment plant
is 2.9 LMlgd but its output is usually much less due to insufficient water
from the Hope catchment area.
Adequate facilities exist at all the treatment works for the
necessary pre-treatment of wqater and chlorination. In general, these works
are in good physical condition and are producing water of uniformly good
quality.
Underground Sources
(viii) Wtiells in Limestone Formations
Wells tapping the limestone formations of Long Mountain and the
Red Hills areas have been utilized for several years. The yield from sevan
wells in these areas has averaged 7 2Igd. These wells are capable of
yielding more and are utilized to draw additional quantities for short
periods.  Continuous pumping at the higher rates tends to increase the
chloride content of the water.



ANl,17, 1
?age 3 of ' page,
In 1962, three new well sites were located in the St. Catharine
Plains (White Marl Wells).  The total yield available is 5 IMgd but only twu
wells are normally utilized so far to produce 3 IMgd. There has been an
increase in chloride content of the water.
(ix) Liganuea Plain Gravel Wells
There are four wells in the alluvial gravel deposits of the
Liganuea Plain; these are located in the built-up urban area which is
only partially sewered. The present abstraction from these wells is about
3 IMgd and further exploitation of this source is not anticipated.
lWater from the wells is pumped into the distribution system after
chlorination only, the normal dose ranging between 0.4 to 1 ppm depending
on the well. Chlorine gas is injected into the pumping main under pressure.
Distribution System
Some 700 miles of water mains (3" diameter and above) have been
laid over the years in the supply area. A minimum residual pressure of 60
feet is maintained in the distribution system and supply is normally con-
tinuous. There are a number of service reservoirs with a total capacity of
about 28 IMg. A large section of the distribution area is supplied by
gravity from the reservoirs.
Investment in Plant and Equipment
The investment made in plant and equipment by the Commission
since 1955 are summarized below:
Year   later Sources & Treatment    Distribution     Othersl/        Total
- -   - - -    -  -  - - (T'J - OCOos) -     - - -   -   - - -    -   -
1955                 10.0              30.0             50             90
1956                 13.0             108.0             17            138
1957                 42.5              32.5              -             75
1958                 20.0             155.0              -            175
1959-60              44.5              99.5             21            165
1960-61             145.5             118.5              -            264
1961-62             135.0             132.0              -            267
1962-63             754.0             126.0              -            88C
1963-64             830.0                 -              -            830
1965-68             275.0 2/          200.0              -
Total             2,269.5           1,001.5             88          3,359
1/ This item includes equipment for laboratory and office, machines, tools
and vehicles;
2/  The 1965-68 program is under implementation.  It also provided an arrort'r
of 4,J 1,150,000 for stabilizing the Hermitage Dam but since no work haW
been started, it is not shown.
April 9, 1969



rfi    i 3'k! Y 
Pag_ i of 1 pagea
JAXAICA - KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY FRCJiG!2
Detailed Description of Proposed Project
Sources
The proposed project would utilize the flow from Tulloch Springs,
wells in the Spanish Town area and a limited quantity from Ferry River.
Tulloch Springs
The consultant's guaging of the spring flow over the past two yea:c.,
which included an extended dry period, indicates that the yearly average fIrnc.
could be taken as 7.5 IMgd, and the minimum as 5.0 IMgd.  A statistical
analysis of the data also indicates that the average flow of 7.5 IMgd will
be exceeded during 50' of a normal year and a flow of 8.5 IMgd would be
exceeded 30% of the time.  The number and design of pumps would be such as
to permit pumping in the range of 5 to 8.5 IMgd.
The intake works would be designed to divert a maximum of 8.5 ligd
from the spring flow into a sump from which it will be pumped into the
Tulloch-Kingston transmission main. Protective measures against flooding
would be taken by raising the working area above flood level and providing
suitable access. The spring water has very low turbidity and the chloride
content is less than 10 ppm. It is therefore proposed only to chlorina-te
the water, and the intake works would include necessary arrangements for
this purpose.
This source would also be utilized to pump a small supply to Sligo-
ville, a small village upstream of the intake works. Necessary pumps and
pumping main for the purpose would be provided by IVA, which would be chaer;c
by the Commission for the supply.
Head Works Wells
For preliminary design purposes it has been assumed that a total
of ten wells in the Spanish Town area would be utilized.  Based upon hydro-
geological investigation of the area,possible well sites to the north and
north west of Spanish Town on either side of the Rio Cobre have been located.
Some of the existing wells in the area would be purchased and others would b-;
drilled 50' below static water level and have 16" diameter casings. The
preliminary design assumes a minimum yield of 5 flIgd from these sources.
The actual location of the wells and the yield would depend upon the results
of the test drilling in the areas selected, and the number of wells to be
utilized can also be decided only then.
It is proposed to pump water from the western group of wells into
a 150,000 gallon ground level reservoir and pump from there into the Tullocli-
Kingston main after chlorination. The bulk supply to Spanish Town area wc' 1.
be drawn from this reservoir. The NWTA would arrange to take the supply fra;,-
this point.  The use of the reservoir would permit the operation of the
pumps at fairly uniform heads and only the relift pump has to operate under
varying heads depending on the pressure in the main. Water from t!L4  other
wells would have to be pumped directly into the Tullocch-nJ-zs1ton mn.r. t.s :r.
would be uneconomical to link them together. "eparete ohlorinatcrs t,rccl'o
be provided for eacAl of these weli!>



Awl INX 2
-'age 2 of 3 pages
Ferry River Intake
The works described below are being constructed by the Corrmissior
immediately to relieve the critical water shortage now prevailing and
these works are not therefore to be financed by the Bank loan.
The Ferry River is the nearest surface source to Kingston. It
is a perennial river, but the chloride content in the water is very high
(over 1,000 ppm). Some of the springs feeding into the river are however
less saline (500-700 ppm chloride content) and a complex of such springs,
from an area referred to as the blue hole, is proposed to be tapped. Water
from the springs would be pumped to a nearby 180,000 gallon capacity
balancing tank and chlorinated. An 18" diameter pipeline would convey the
supply from the balancing tank to the foot of the existing Ferry Hill
reservoir where a booster pump would lift the water to the reservoir. The
same pumps would be utilized when the Tulloch-Kingston main is laid to boos.
the Ferry supply into the main.
Pumping 1Mains
The final design of the main from Tulloch springs intake to the
Montgomery service reservoir, together with the branch mains from the wells
can be done only after drilling and testing of the Head Works wells.  For
purposes of estimation, the preliminary designs assume a 2410 diameter main
from Tulloch to Head Works increasing to 30" from Head Works to Ferry Hill.
From Ferry Hill junction point an existing 33" main would be utilized and
a new 21'!/241 main would be laid to connect up to the Montgomery corner
service reservoir. From Ferry Hill junction point, a new 18" main would
be laid up to Constant Spring road. The total length of pumping mains to
be laid, including branch mains from Head Works wells would be approxima-cely
30 miles of which the Tulloch-Kingston main would be approximately 20 miles.
These are provisional estimates and the actual lengths of pipes would be
based on detailed survey of the route, and the number and location of the
Head Works wells.
Reservoirs
Balancing Reservoir
In order to reduce the fluctuation in pumping head at Tulloch
Spring and the Spanish Town wells, a balancing reservoir would be provided
on the Tulloch-Kingston main between Spanish town and Ferry Hill.
Harbour View Service Reservoir
A service reservoir of one million gallon capacity would be buiLt
at Harbour view. This reservoir would be of steel or prestressed concrete
and it would be connected to an existing feeder main.



Page 3 of 3 pages
Distribution System
Some 9 miles of pipes ranging in diameter from 91t to 24' are in-
cluded in the project on the basis of a preliminary arnalysis of distributior
system made on a computer. The pipes to be actually used would be based
on a more detailed analysis which is underway. Two booster pumping statiorn
are also to be built in downtown Kingston to improve distribution in some
areas and to enable transfer of water from one distribution zone to anothGr.
Project Capacity and Utilization
The project components are designed to utilize the various sources
to maximum advantage but the actual yield from the project would vary
depending on the seasonal rainfall. The use of the Ferry river source
depends on the dilution water available from the other sources to keep down
the chloride content in the mixed water to reasonable limits (approximately
300 ppm). It is expected that the yield from the project including the
Ferry source would vary from 17.5 I4gd in an average year to a minimum of
14.5 INgd during dry years.  About 1 to 2 figd would be sold in bulk to N1A
to meet the requirements of Spanish Town and new suburban developments and
the balance would be utilized by the Commission to meet water demands in
its area. On the basis of present forecasts of demand, the full capacity
of the project should be utilized by 1976.
Base Flow Wells
As the abstraction of water from Tulloch Spring would reduce the
base flow in the Rio Cobre upon which the irrigation system on
St. Catherine plains is dependent, it is proposed to maintain the base flow
of the river by seasonal operation of wells in St. Thomas- in ye-Vale
north of Bog Walk. This concept was verified by a study performed by the
Water Research Association, England which indicated that the base flcw wells
will compensate irrigation interests and that abstraction from Tulloch Sprirng
would not impair present interests in the Rio Cobre and ground water in thie
area.
April 9, 1969



JvI-1r,A - KINGSTON WATER- SUPPLY PROJECT
,c5F ,.stimates of Prooosel Project
Local Costs(a) . . .       -         -   -  -  - - Foreign Exchange -   -  -  -  -  -  -   - -
( J J-000 's )                                        ( E,J - S )
Sub-                                                 Sua-
Year ending March 31                          196)-1970      1971         1972         Total        1969-1)70     1971          1J72        Total         Total
Drilling & testing of wells                       62            -             -           62                         -             -                        71
Tulloch Intase, pumping station
and construction at well
installations                                   54           76            7           137            -            -             -            -          137
Pumps and accessories                              -            -             -            -            -           202           13          215          215
Tulloch-Kingston main aid
oranch pumping mains                           224          350           60           634          727          200             -          927        1,561
Distrioution mains                                30          137            15          182          217           45             -          262          444
Service Reservoirs                                15          70             6          129           10           13             -           23          152
Housing                                            _           25             -           25            -             _     -                   -            25
Land                                               8            -             -            b            -             -            -            -             o
Consulting services                               69           72            26          167          108            15           10          133           300
Contingencies and provision
for price increases                            1214         212           27           363          149            71            2          222          505
Suo-total                                   616          950           111       1,707        1,220           546           25        1,791         3,498
Interest during construction( c)                   -            -             -            -           57           103          117          277           277
Total                                       616          350           i4l        1,707        1,277          649           142        2,06b         3,775
(a)  Includes indirect foreign exchange expenditures of about $ 400,000 which will oe incurred oy local contractors.
(o) Includes commitment fees to I3RD
April 9, 19t 



JAMAICA: KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1969                            1970                            1971
JF MA M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S ON                   D J F IMIA I MJ IJ JAI    OTN ND
SUPPLY CONTRACTS
PUMPS*f*                                                                                                ffff      ll
MAINS AND VALVES                         r  _i*T.
REINFORCING STEEL
CHLORINATORS AND FLOW
MEASUREMENT INSTRUMENTS
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
TULLOCH - HEADWORKS
TRANSMISSION MAIN 
MAINS FROM HEADWORKS,                                                      *    *    *    *    *    *        *    *
PUMPING STATIONS AND RESERVOIRS
WELLS: DRILL AND TEST PUMP
KINGSTON DISTRIBUTION MAINS                                                    r               M     i         I
STAFF HOUSING                                                                                  I T
;3 DESIGN AND PREPARATORY WORK  INVITATION TO TENDER  PLACING OF CONTRACT   SUPPLY AND ERECTiON OR CONSTRUCTION                mx
DESIGN AND PREPARATORY WORK                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD-4328



ANNEX 5
Page I of 2 poge-
JAMAICA  - KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATR CONSUPTMDN STATISTICS
Water Pro-                       Water
Eatimated          %         duction per                     Prod-ution
Water Production                               Population      Pcpulation   Capita day        No. of        per Connec-
Year             Annual            Daily         Population          Served          Served         Served      Connections       tion day
Mill. Gallons
1955            5,?20.0            16.2           337,760            272,000           80           60            25,547           63J
1956            6,08h.2            16.6           3bS,570            278,000           80           60            26,559           625
1957            6,285.9            17.2           354,730            293,000           83            59           28,177           610
1958            6,673.2            18.3           509,550            305,000           7b           60            29,318           62J
1959            7,368.3            20.2           420,490            325,000           77           62            31,798           635
1960            7,387.1            20.2           428,330            345,000           81           59            33,828           597
1961            7,197.7            19.7           434,750            368,ooo           85           54            36,187           5L,
1962            8,389.1            23.0           4bO,630           395,000            90           58            37,685           610
1963            8,892.5            2b.b           b60,220           420,000            91           58            39,425           619
1965            9,105.0            24.9           L76,0b0           550,000            92           57            40,939           608
1965            10,278.6           28.2           493,620            452,000           92           62            b3,383            650
1966            9,847.2            27.0           511,480           470,000            92           57            46,386           582
1967           11,025.5            30.2           525,290           489,000            93           62            48,720           620
1968           10,208.3            27.9                             509,000                         55            50,2b5           555
For January 1968, water usage for the city of Kingston and its surrcnding area as a *wole wva as follows:
No. of
Connections
Anolyrsd
Domestic                                42,084          1s.5         55%          66%
Commercial                                3,739          2.3          9%          11%
Induetrial                                 168           2.0          7%           9%
Gmemment & Miscellaneous                  1.259          1.0          11%         LS
Total Connectims Sampled               57,250         21.8          82%        100%
Estimated Total Connectiona             50,139
Estimated Total Ccnsumption (increased
proportionately to Connections)                       23.1          82%
Unaccunted-for Water                                     5.2          18%
Water Delivered to System                               28.3         100%



JAMAICA: KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER CONSUMPTION STATISTICS AND PROJECTIONS
18                               I _  GI
16                                                                   - -'  -
14       P
z
i12
C,
z 0
-WATER PRODUCTION
Z                           LEFT SCALE)) 
Q800     2 8                                                                               80
z     I
o     0
cn    D           I                      I   II         II 
'5 '5     5  5   5   6   6   6  '3'4'5'-'7'8'9 7               7   7   7   7  7   7
w     0(RGTSAEr
j600~   6                                                                                  60 0
w  TOTAL POPULATION
z             (*LEFT SCALE)
(n 400   4                                                                                 40I c
-u
0  -
0 200    2                                                                                 2
0~
a.0    0                                       1                                          0
'55  '56  '57  '58  '59  '60  '61  '62  '63  '64  '65  '66  '67  '68  '69  '70  '71  '72  '73  '74  '75  '76
ACTUAL                   31     *PROJECTED               m>
YEAR ENDING MARCH 31 
IBRD-4094  Nl)
(-'



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3 pages
JAMAICA - KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Incremental Return on Proposed Project
Demand not affected by Rate Increase
1970       1971        1972       1973        1974       1975       1976
DMg - Millions                    & Thereafter
Incremental Water Production       1,624       2,337      3,048       3,778      1,563       5,275     6,023
Incremental Water Sales
- Wholesale                     237         402        639         931      1,278       1,588     1,935
- Retail                      1,110       1,548      1,927       2,278      2,628      2,950      3,270
Incremental Revenue                                          bJ - 000's
- Wholesale                      16          26         43          62         85         106       129
- Retail                        333         464        578         724        836         938     1,014
Total                         349         490        621         786        921       1,044     1,169
Incremental Operating Costs           22          36         89          92         98         110       121
Incremental Operating Cash Flow       327       156         532         691        823         934     1,0148
Operating      Net
Fixed Asset               Cash         Cash
Investment               Flow        Flow          Present Worth - 22%
Emergency                                              Discount     Present
Year      Propram       Project                                   Factor      Worth
1969        ( 300)                         -       ( 300)        1.000       ( 300)
1970                    (1,836)          327      (1,509)         .820       (1,237)
1971                    (1,496)          456      (1,040)         .672       ( 699)
1972                    ( 166)           532         366          .551          202
Extensions a)
1973                    ( 200)          69           1914         .451          223
1974                    ( 200)           823         623          .370          231
1975                    ( 200)           934         734          .303          222
1976                    ( 200)        1,048          848          .249          211
1977                                  1,048        1,0h8          .2014
1978                                  1,048        1,oh8          .167
1979                                   1,o48       1,048          .137
1980                                  1,048        1,048          .112
1981                                  1,048        1,048          .092
1982                                  1,048        1,048          .075
1983                                  1,048        1,048          .062        1,136
1981                                  1,048        1,048          .051
1985                                  1,048        1,048          .042
1986                                  1,048        1,048          .034
1987                                  1,048        1,048          .028
1988                                   1,048       1,048          .023
1989                                  1,048        1,048          .019
1990                                  1,048        1,048         .015
1991                                  1,048        1,048         .013
1992                                  1,048        1,048          .010
( 11)
Incremental Return is therefore about 22%
a) Extensions are necessary to serve new areas and allow new connections and sales.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3 pages
JAMAICA - KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Incremental Return on Proposed Project
Demand set back two years due to Rate Increase
1972      z197        1974      1297       1976       1977       1978
]Mg - Millions                   & Thereafter
Incremental Water Production    1,62h      2,337      3,018      3,778     L,563      5,275      6,023
Incremental Water Sales
- Wholesale                  237        402        639        931      1,278     1,588      1,935
- Retail                   1,110      1,548      1,927      2,278      2,628     2,950      3,270
Incremental Revenues                                     LJ - 000's
- Wholesale                   16         26         43         62         85       106        129
- Retail                     333        492        613        724        836       938      1,010
Total                      349        518        656        786        921     1,0h4      1,169
Incremental Operating Costs        22         31         89         92         98       110        121
Incremental Operating Cash Flow   327        O8h        567        691       823        934      1,048
Operating     Net
Fixed Asset           Cash       Cash
Investment           Flow       Flow       Present Worth - 16%       Present Worth - 15%
Emergency                                      Discount     Present     Discount    Present
Year       Program     Project                            Factor       Wbrth      Factor       Worth
1969       ( 300)                     -      ( 300)       1.000       ( 300)      1.000       ( 300)
1970                  (1,836)         _      (1,836)       .862       (1,583)       .870      (1,597)
1971                  (1,496)         -      (1,h96)       .713       (1,112)      .756       (1,131)
1972                  ( 166)        327         161        .641          103        .658         106
Extensions a)
1973                  ( 200)        181         281        .552          157        .572         162
1971                  ( 200)        567         367        .476         175         .197         182
1975                  ( 200)        694         h91        .410          203        .132         213
1976                  ( 200)        823         623        .354         221         .376         23k,
1977                                934         934        .305         285         .327         305
1978                              1,0o8       1,048        .263                     .281
1979                              1,0o48      1,048        .227                     .2L7
1980                              1,048       1,048        .195                     .215
1981                              1,048       1,048        .168                     .187
1982                              1,008       1,048        .145                     .163
1983                              1,048       1,048        .125                     .1h1
1984                              1,048       1,048        .108        1,781        .123       2,003
1985                              1,Oh8       1,048        .093                     .107
1986                              1,048       1,0o8        .080                     .093
1987                              1,018       1,048        .069                     .081
1988                              1,048       1,048        .060                     .070
1989                              1,0h8       1,0o8        .051                     061
1990                              1,048       1,048        .044                    .053
1991                              1,0o8       1,0o8        .038                    o0h6
1992                              1,0o8       1,0o8        .033                    .00
70)                      177
Incremental Return is therefore almost 16'-
a)  Extensions are necessary to serve new areas and allow new connections and sales.



a%rdEx 6
Page 3 of 3 pages
liotes on Incremental Return on Proposed Project
1.      The project costs include the cost of the "emergency program't'
for developing a 3 to 5 DMgd supply from Ferry River, which must be
mixed with water from the project sources before distribution, except
in emergency.
2.      Existing mains will be utilized to distribute the additional
amounts of water brought under the project. The cost of these mains
has not been included.
3.      The retail water sales assumes 20% unaccounted for water which
is the estimated loss at present.
4.      Incremental revenues have been calculated assuming a rate of
1.33 sh/l,000 gallons for TTholesale supply.  This rate would provide
a return of at least 8%. Higher rates may be adopted in practice, in
which case the incremental return will be higher.
5.      Incremental revenue from retail sales has been calculated
assuming a rate of 6 sh/l,000 gallons during 1970-1972 and 6.36 sh/
1,000 gallons during 1973-1976. These rates will apply for consump-
tion in excess of the minimum allowed per connection which will be
charged at 2 sh/l,000 gallons and 3.5 sh/l,000 gallons.
April 9, 1969



JAMAICA: KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE WATER COMMISSION
COMMISSIONERS
CHAIRMAN
(CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER)
|ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT     |                                                  DMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT|
CHIEF ENGINEeR                                                              SECRETR=Y-MANAGER 
|DEPUTY CHIEF ENGINEER ||                                                       DEPUTY SECRETARY
SANITARY                                 ASSISTANT                               MECHANICAL                           ASSITAN                      CHIEF
ENGINEER                               CHIEF ENGINEER                             ENGINEER                           SECRETARIES                 ACCOUNTANT
SE.IOR  COECAT    PLAE              SENIOR                              AS1-  -IT.E]  N   SIS-TANT.  ~                    E    PRS..E
TI  E.Gl E          D~PLNT  ISTRI:PUTIO.  ETCUIV  SPEISETEN  SU-P.E NDSTSO T  INTERNAAT   EEC-TIVE  SUERTE.DE.T  STSAATC E.ECARTC  PERSONNEL
ENGINEERfS 2  EECUTIE  ENAI_   E   ~  N.NEERSETC- SVE                             MCHA,CA
ENGINE   ORER      NIERENEEEERMA-NE.CE  T    SUEEGR    -POPRTES  SEER    ENGINEE  AUITR     OFFICER  FOF STORES  STF    FFICER  OFFCER
Loborolory  COTsrUAc- Ipn  PLm-  Repp-rs ond  Waler  poy roll  Prop.,y  W.le,  Street se S.r S .eer PITTI  -I --rdo WAVI?  RIIIIR  ond  SloreS  Registry  EVd  Pe-soTTRl  | AcEOTI-Rq
SeWage   OIowiTg 0111CR  MRchoTICA-I1  Repa-rs -nd     MoppOCi                    Mamnl-To-Ce
S    aptmber 96I                                                                                                                                         IBRD-4092 xC
P10015~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



ANKEX 8
Page 1 of 2 pages
JAMAICA - KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
The Wiater Commission
Estimated Balance Sheet - March 31, 1968
ASSETS                                           LJ - 000's
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                            16,779
Less: Depreciation                            8,571
Net Plant in Service
Land                                          3,850
lork-in-Progress                             1,011
Total Fixed Assets                          13,069
Current Assets
Cash & Equivalent                              667
Accounts Receivable - Billings                 301
- Other                     77
Inventories                                    253
Total Current Assets                          1,298
Other Assets                                     190
Total Assets                                 1,557
LIABILITIES
Equity                                         9, 10
Long-Term Debt
Government                                   4,715
Private Banks                                  208
Less:  Current Maturities                      (120)
Total Long-Term Debt                          4,803
Other Liabilities                                  3
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                               221
Current Maturities                             120
Total Current Liabilities                       341
Total Liabilities                           14,557



I-i\NIEX 8
Page 2 of 2 pages
Comments on Balance Sheet - March 31, 1968
lWith regard to the balance sheet as at March 31, 1968, the
Whter Commission in the past did not follow normal commercial public
utility accounting practices. The balance sheet was constructed by
Price W,7aterhouse as a consultant to the Water Commission from data avail-
able, but has not been audited. A future audit will be necessary to es-
tablish more accurate data, but such data are not expected to be less
favorable in total than those presented.
The Water Commission has no property accounts at present. The
gross value noted for plant in service is the replacement value of the
assets as estimated by Howard Humphreys, consulting engineers, as at
March 31, 1966 for water activities alone; sewerage facilities have not
been inventoried or valued. Both fixed assets and equity are therefore
understated to the amount of sewerage assets not included. Both water
and sewerage facilities added to the system since 1967 are included.
Depreciation has been taken considering the age of the assets
and a reasonable expected life. Overall, the depreciation rate is about
3%.
Service connections which have been paid for by customers but
which are the property of the Water Commission with a gross replacement
value of approximately EJ 557,000 and a net value after depreciation of
LJ 192,000 are not included. These should be excluded from the rate base
since it is not appropriate to include in water rates charged to customers
a return on assets they themselves contributed.
April 9, 1969



ANINEX 9
JAMAICA  - KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
THE WATER COMMISSION
ESTIMATED INCOME STATENTS - 1964 - 19681/
Year Ending March 31
1964                1965                1966                1967                 1968
Water    Sewerage   water    Seerge     Water     Seerage    Water    Sewerage   Water    Sewerage
Water Production   IMg                      9,105              10,279               9,847              11,025              10,208
Water Sales        IMg                     7,534                7,934               7,991
Unaccounted-For 1Water %                      17%                  23%                 19%
_- _ -     -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -  ;6J's   -   ts  -    -   -   -   -   -   - -  - s-   ---
Revenues - Collections                     1,040        59      1,117       117     1,107       127     1,234       117     1,219       160
- Other                              17                  264        27       21         27        25        27        38        27
Total                           1,057        86     1,141        144     1,128       154     1,259       144     1,257       187
Operating Costs
- Power & Fuel                      38          5        44         6        43         6         41         7        55         7
- Chemicals                         16          1        18         1        20          1        20         1        17         1
- Labor & Maintenance              369         44       374        48       362        56        364        59       542        77
- Salaries & Administration        314         77       348        82       460        114       430       103       455       115
Total                              737        127        784      137        885       177       855       170     1,069       200
Operating Income before Interest            320         (41)     357          7       243       (23)      404       (26)      188       (13)
Interest                                    123          5       133          7       152         8       3521/      45z/     268        27
Operating Income                            197        (66)      224         0         91       (31)       52       (71)      (80)      (40)
Non-Operating Income                          69        16        43        ( 4)       57         6        69         7        75        12
Net Income (without Depreciatimn)           266         (30)     267        ( 4)      148       (25)      121       (64)      ( 5)      (28)
Total Net Inoome (withaut Depreciatinn)           236                   263                 123                  57                 (33)
1/ The Water Commission has followed a Cash System of Accounting shich excludes Accounting for Capital Assets sand Depreciation.
2/ Includes Payment of Interest Due in 1965-66 of LJ 78,000 for Water and bJ 6,000 for Sewerage
October 25, 1968



AlNEX 10
Page 1 of 2 pages
JAMAICA - KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF WATER RATES - EXISTING AND PROPOSED
!,tter Rates in effect from 1958 to May 1968 and November 1968 through
March 1969.
A minimum monthly water rate was established for different
property valuations and areas which entitled a consumer to a specific
quantity of water. If more water was consumed, it was charged for.
Domestic and Government
I4onthly        Mter Rate for   Water Rate for
Property Valuation   Minimum Quantity      Minimum           Excess
sh/l,000 Gal.    sh/l,00O Gal.
EJ 60 or less       3-6,000 Gal.         1.5                1.5
More than k,J 60   t8-72,000 Gal.        2.0               2.0
depending on assessed
value of property
Commercial and Industrial
3-6,000 Gal.         3.0               3.0
Both domestic and commercial charges are increased by 0.5 - 1.0 shillings/
1,000 gal. for certain areas at higher elevations served by booster pumps.
Wiater Rates in effect from May-November 1968 - under drought conditions
Water rates were increased substantially to most domestic consumers to
curtail usage during the recent drought.    Consumers in properties of
low valuation and commercial and industrial consumers were not affected
by the increase.
Domestic and Government
Monthly        %ter Rate for    Water Rate for
Property Valuation   Minimum Quantity      Minimum            Excess
sh/l,O00 Gal.    sh/l,000 Gal.
EJ 60 or less       3-6,000 Gal.         1.5                1.5
Over UJ 60          3-24,000 Gal.     2.67-6.0              6.0
Commercial and Industrial
3-6,000 Gal.         3.0               3.0
The drought rates were withdrawn on November 30, 1968 and the previous rates
were restored.



P'age 2 of 2 pacges
Iater Rates from April 1969
The following rate structure was instituted for April 1969
forward. The charges for wrater service would be in two parts; a service
charge and a charge for water consumed. The charge for water consumed
would be lower for an initial quantity estimated to be necessary for
reasonable sanitary standards and higher for water in excess of this
amount. No differentiation in rates would be made for property valuations.
The lower rate for a modest initial quantity allows low income families to
keep total expenditures for water at reasonable levels by judicial use.
Service Charge
A service charge of 6 sh. per month will be levied on all con-
sumers except those with a property value assessed at less than LJ 100.
Water Charge                            Water Rate-sh/1000 Gal.
Domestic:
For first 3,000 Gal/Mo.            2 sh.
For 3,000 to 6,000 Gal/Mo.         3 sh. 6d.
For all over 6,000 Gal/Mo.         6 sh.
Non-Domestic                         7 sh.
April 9, 1969



JAMAICA- KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PRDJECT
The Water Commission
Estimated Income Statements 1969 - 1976
Year ending March 31                                                 1969                1970                 1971                1972                  1973                1974                 1975                 1976
Water    Sewerage    Water  Sewerage     Water   Sewerage     Water    Sewerage    Water    Sewerage    Water    Severage    Water   Sewerage     Water   Sewerage
Water Production IMg                                           9,855              12,647               13,360               I4,On                L4,bO1              15,586               16,298               17,046
Water Sales - Direct IMg                                       7,880               9,928               10,366               10,746               11,o96              11,446               11,768               12,089
- Wholesale DMg                                       -                 237                  402                 I 63y                 931                1.278                1 586               1,935
Total IMg                                       7,880              10,165               10,768               11,385               12,027               12,724               13,356              14,024
Unaccounted-for Water - % 1/                                      20%                 20%                  20%                  20%                  20%                 20%                  20%                  20%
Total Connections                                                            53,500               56,500              59,500               62,500               65,800               69,200               72,600
_ -          -      -   - -      - -     -    -       -   -    -   -   i,J-000's-                                          -   -   -   --- - - - - - - -  -   -
Revenues - Billings - Retail                                  1,470       258      2,660      321A      2,773      465?'     2,o6 490k8          3,132       2U       3,220       506-/    3,29k       517-/    3,37k         2,'
1,470  2,660  321        66                                                                                  374     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~532-
- Wholesale                                   -        -         16         -         26         -         43         -         62        -          85        -         10         -        1.9-
- Other                                                 30        27         31       27         33        27         34        27         36        27         37       27          39       27          40       27
- ., rct
Total                                              1,500      285       2,707      34k       2,832      492      2,946       507      3,230      513       3,342      533       3,439      544       3,5b3      559
Operating Coate - Power & Fuel                                    55        8         67         9         74         9         88       10          90       10          93       U           98       11        109        12
- Cbmlcala                                       22        1         23         1         24         1         24         1         25        1          26        1          27        1          28        1
- Labor & Maintenance                           623      105        687       113        723       118        793      123         833      129         874      136         918      143         964      150
- Salaries & Adminstration                      487      12k        515       130        542       136        580       143        609      150         639      158         671      165         705      174
Total                                              1,187       238      1,292      253      1,363       264      1,485       277      1,557       290      1,632       306      1,714      320       1,806      337
Incom before Dnpreciation and Interest                           313       47      1,415        95      1,469      228       1,461      230       1,673      223      1,710       227      1,725       224      1,737       222
Depreciation                                                     500        3        527         5        538        64        538       65         690       65         690       76         696       82        702        88
Incom  oefore Interest                                        ( 187)       44        888        90        931       164        923      165         983      158      1,020       151      1,029       142      1,035       134
Interest                                                         247       26        40k        95        496      170         552      172         562      166         551      159        514       151        k89       144
Operating Income                                              ( 434)       18        480      (5)         435      (6)         371      (7)         421     (8)          469     (8)          515     (9)          546     (10)
Non-Operating Incom                                               61        3         64         5         71         6         79         7         88        8          95        8          89        9          97       10
Total Incoome                                                 (373)        21        544         0         506        0        450         0        509        0         564        0         604        0         643        0
Return on Net Plant3/                                              -        -       10.5%        -       11.2%        -       11.8%        -        8.0%       -         8.8%       -         9.2%       -         9.7%       -
1/  Excludes Wholesale Water Production and Sales.
2/  Assumes Sewer Rates to make Sewerage Break even.
3/  Income before Interest divided by net water plant in service at start of year.



AsN7IEX 11
Palge 2 of 2 pages
JAXAICA - KINGSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL FORECASTS
1.        Water production, sales and connections as shown on Estimated
Income Statement.  iater rates in effect April 1, 1969 are maintained
until April 1972 when a 6% increase will be necessary to obtain an 8%
return on assets in use.
2.        In addition to increases due to higher volumes, operating
costs are assumed to increase due to higher price levels as follows:
Power and Fuel                - 5% in 1975 - 1976
Chemicals                     - 2% per year 1969 forward
Labor and M4aintenance        - 5% per year 1969 forward
Salaries and Administration   - 5% per year 1969 forward
3.        Depreciation has been estimated at about 3% of gross plant.
For sewerage, only plant added to system in 1967 and forward is included;
no reliable estimate is available for sewerage assets existent at that time.
4~.       Interest and repayment periods on past loans are as contracted.
Future loan interest has been assumed at 609 for IBRD and 8% for all other
borrowing. Amortization has been assumed in 33 installments for IBRD (equaL
repayment of interest and principal) and over 20 years for other borrowings
(equal repayments of principal). Interest has not been capitalized but
charged to operations in the years incurred.
5.        Prior programs are assumed to be financed by loans from Government
and from cash reserves from past loans made for capital expenditure purposos.
6.        Accounts Receivable for wqater and sewerage billings has been
assumed at approximately 3 months sales. No significant variations are ex-
pected for other accounts receivable. Inventories are assumed to remain
constant with reductions in the current high levels of some items counter-
balancing necessary increases in others. Accounts payable for 1968 include
LJ 184,000 of interest not yet paid to Government but which is due;   in the
future, it is assumed that interest payments will be kept current.
7.        Amortization payments include payments to sinking funds for pas9t
Government loans which are also included as current maturities due on the
halance sheet.
8.        Funds available for major programs in 1972 and thereafter, have
been assumed, keeping cash and equivalent in the enterprise at about LJ
100,000.
The Water Commission is exempt from all taxes as at present.
April 9, 1969



ANNFX 12
JAKAICA - KINOSTON WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
The Water Coesmission
Estimated Sources and Applications of Funds 1969 - 1976
Year ending March 31                                           1969            1970           1971            1972           1973            1974            1775           197t
Li - 000's
Sources of Funds
Income oefore Depreciation and Interest                      360          1,510           1,697           1,691          1,896           1,937           i ,,0          1 A   )
Non-Operating Incore                                          64              69             77              86              J6            103              23             107
Loans - Prior Progrsos                                     1,186           1,555            705             605              -               -               -
- Proposed Project - IBRD                                           1.277             649            112
Total Sources                                      1,610          4,411           3,128          2,521           1,992           2,0o0          2,017           2,100
Application of Funds
Investment in Fixed Assets
Proposed Project - Foreign Exchange                                     1,220             546              25              -               -               -
- Local Currency                                         616            950             141
Total V                                              1,836          1,496             166                              -
Prior Programs & Normal Extensions
- Water                                  736             616            600             400            200             200             2u0            201
- Sever                                  744             980            105             205             200            200             2JC             2W
Acailasie for Nev Major Programs                             -               _              _             500            300             400            600             "Z"
Total Fixed Assets                                 1,480          3,432           2,201          1,271             700             o00          1     000       l uOs
Interest
Prior Lo-s  - Oovernment                                   260            340             339             338            337             336            311             3G2
- Private                                       13             11              10              9               7              5               3               1
Nev Loans fr Prior Programs                                  -              95            214             260            250             236            222             2C7
ProJect Loans - IBRD                                         -              57            103             117            134             133             12)            123
Total Interest                                       273            503             666            724             728             710            cJ5             613
AmrtizatiOn
Prior Loans - Goversm-st                                    94            157             175             176            176             168            157             15t
- Private                                       26             26              26             26              26             21              26              2
New Loans for Prior Programs                                 -              59            137             172            172             172            172             172
Project Loans - I3RD                                         -               -              -               -              -              73             77              33
Total Amorti-atiOn                                   120            242             338            374             371            435             bj32            L3,
Increase in Current ASsts.                                    99            200               -             100            200             100              -
Decrease in Current Liasilities                              184               -              -               --                             -               -
Total Applications                                 2,156          4,377           3,205          2,469           2,002          2,045           2,097           2,072
Zash Surplus (Deficit) for Year                               ( 546)             34          ( 77)              55          ( 10)           (   5)          ( 50)          (   o)
,ash ai Beginning of fear                                       667             121            155              78            133             123             .0J
Casn at End of Year                                             121             155             78             133            123            11              t00             o2
3ect Service -overage                                           1.1             2.1            1.8             1.6            1.8             1.2            i.9             1.9
P Total local contracts - these include the identifiable foreign exchange component of such contracts.
Apzril1 9, 1969



ANNEX 13
JAMAICA - Kingston Water Supply Project
The Water Commiaaion
Estimated Balnce Sheets 1969 - 1976
Year Ending March 31                                 1968          1969          1970          1971          1972          1973           1974          1975          1976
WJ - 000's
Cu.rrent Assets
Cash & Equivalent                                 667           121           155            78           133           123            118            68            62
Accounts Receivable - Billings                    301           400           600           600           700           900          1,000         1,000         1,000
-Other                        77            77             77            77            77            77            77             77            77
Inventories                                      253           253            253           253           253           253           253            253           253
Total Current Assets                         1,298           851          1,085         1,008         1,163         1,353         1,448          1,390         1,392
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                              16,779        17,735         20,093        20,098        25,138        25,501        25,901         26,301        26,701
Less: Depreciation                             8,571          9.074         9 606        10 208        10 811        11 566        12 332        13 110         13 900
Net Plant in Service              8792                  2866              It'b7         D           1       3     9       1       , tI-3-   12if, bOl
(Of which wster)                              (8,105)        (8,489)       (8,346)       (7,808)      (12,305)      (11,615)      (11,125)       (10,629)      (10,127)
Land                                           3,850          3,858         3,858         3,858         3,855         3,858         3,858          3,858         3,858
Work-in-Progress                                1,011         1,487         2,561         4,757           488           525            525           525           525
Available for Major Programs                                      -             _                         500           800         100 0          1,8           2,400
Total Fixed Assets                          13,069         14,006        16,906        18,505        19,173        19,118        19,152         19,374        19,504
Other Assets                                      190           230           230           230           230           230            230           230           230
Total Assets                                11,557         15,087        18,221        19,743        20,566        20,701        20,830         21,002        21,206
LIABILITIES
Current Liaoilities
Accounts Payable                                 221             37            37            37            37            37            37             37            37
Current Maturities                               120            242           338           374           374           435           432            439           406
Total Current Liaoilities                      341            279           375           411           411           472           469            476           443
Long-Term Debt
Government                                     4,715          5,807         7,146         7,539         7,796         7,446          7,112         6,7b3         6,653
Privats Banks                                    208           182            156           130           104            78            52             26             -
IbRD                                                -             -         1,277         1,926         2,068         2,068         1,995          1,918         1,635
Less:  Current Maturities                      ( 120)        ( 242)        C 338)        ( 374)           374)          435)          432)           4 139)        4 1C6)
Total Long-Ters Dlet                         4,803          5,747         8,241         9,221         9,594         9,159         8,727          3,2b0         7,db2
Other Liaoilities                                     3             3             3             3             3              3             3             3              3
Equity                                            9.410         9,058         9,602        10,108        10,558        11,067        11,631         12,235        12,o78
Total Liaoilities                           14,557        15,087         18,221        19,743        20,566        20,701        20,830         21,002        21,206
Deot as % of Total Capital                          34%           39%            46%           48%          48%            45%           43%            40%           3b%
Current Assets to Current Liabilities               3.8           3.1           2.9           2.5           2.8            2.9           3.1           2.9           3.1
April 9, 1969



0D 00  00 F      )  X I1                                       
2TTHOMet   X j E t)  f  \  @ }  JAMAICA: KINGSTON  WATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT
 To b. d } CI_H - TO W N ,
NG   KIGSTNOSPPL
L E  ' E N DAM SITL  - =<  >   t  <                i  N
J  M A IC A,
*I  N o soTAR |
IM~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
O   OHSRRACL IES |   -   \9                     2             \ 
A R5a MCEM0 I                             if    A    A
_ OVE;CCT<NI MCeCILSSJI ,,s,, .0  mi.  .
- a = G W ~VA             C             s,5wt.,g* .        JAMAICA SfIGTeRLTV IIND RACVROB A 
_  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _-  - -
CC                                                     C



