LOAN NUMBER 598 JM
Loan Agreement
(Kingston Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE WATER COMMISSION, KINGSTON, JAMAICA
DATED MAY 14, 1969


﻿LOAN NUMBER 598 JM
Loan Agreement
(Kingston Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE WATER COMMISSION, KINGSTON, JAMAICA
DATED MAY 14, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated May 14, 1969, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRTJCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and THE WATER COMMISSION,
KINGSTON, JAMAICA (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
Loan Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Loan Agreement ac-
cept all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the
Bank dated February 15, 1961 as amended February 9,
1967, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modi-
fication thereof (said Loan Regulations No. 4, as so modi-
fied, being hereinafter called the Loan Regulations) : the
second sentence of Section 4.01 is deleted.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Loan Agreement set
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Bank shall open a Loan Account
on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit
to such Account the amount of the Loan.
(b) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Loan Regulations and in accordance with the allo-
cation of the proceeds of the Loan set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified


﻿4                      4
from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank.
(c) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower, no withdrawals shall be made on
account of :
(i) expenditures in respect of consulting services under
Category D of Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement
made prior to July 1, 1968;
(ii) expenditures other than those referred to in para-
graph (i) hereof, made prior to the date of this
Loan Agreement; or
(iii) expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or
for goods produced in (including services supplied
from) the territories of the Guarantor or expendi-
tures made in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzer-
land) or for goods produced in (including services
supplied from) such territories.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/ of 1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of six and one-half per cent (61/%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the charge payable for special com-
mitments entered into by the Bank at the request of the
Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Loan Regulations
shall be at the rate of one-half of one per cent ('/ of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of any such special
commitment outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
SECTICN 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Loan
Agreement to expenditures required to carry out the
Project described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the goods, other than services of consultants and
items costing less than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500) equivalent required to carry out the Project de-
scribed in Schedule 3 hereof shall be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in February 1968, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Loan Agree-
ment.
(b) When evaluating bids for the procurement of sup-
plies and equipment, prices of locally produced goods shall
be compared with prices of imported goods on the following
basis: (i) the price of goods produced in the territories
of the Borrower shall consist of the ex-factory cost of such
goods; and (ii) the price of imported goods shall consist
of the c.i.f. landed cost of such imported goods plus a mar-
gin, to be agreed with the Bank from time to time but not
to exceed the lesser of (i) the customs duties and any other
similar charges levied on the import of goods into the
territories of the Guarantor, or (ii) (15%) of such cost.


﻿6
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to be used in the territories of the
Borrower exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTION 4.01. If and as the Bank shall from time to time
request, the Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds
representing the principal amount of the Loan as provided
in Article VI o' the Loan Regulations.
SECTION 4.02. The Chairman of the Borrower is desig-
nated as authorized representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 6.12(a) of the Loan Regulations.
The Chairman of the Borrower may designate additional
or other authorized representatives by appointment in
writing notified to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
SECTION 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound engineering, financial and public utility prac-
tices, and shall make available, promptly as needed, all
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall em-
ploy competent and experienced engineering consultants
and contractors acceptable to the Bank upon such terms
and conditions as shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall, within one year after the date of this Agree-
ment, appoint a chief financial officer who shall be respon-


﻿7
sible for the management of the Borrower's financial affairs
and the proper maintenance of the Borrower's accounts.
(d) The Borrower shall promptly employ qualified ac-
countants acceptable to the Bank to assist the Borrower
in establishing, on the basis of sound accrual accounting
principles applicable to public utilities, the accounts and
accounting system of the Borrower; such accountants shall
be employed for such period, and upon such terms and con-
ditions as shall have been approved by the Bank.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the reports,
plans, specifications, contract documents and work or pro-
curement schedules for the Project and any material modi-
fications subsequently made therein, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times man-
age its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations, in accordance
with sound business, financial and public utility practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management, and all material modifications in the organiza-
tion and administrative structure of the Borrower, shall
be made only with the approval of the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall have its accounts audited and
its financial statements (balance sheet and related state-
ments of earnings and expenses) certified annually by inde-
pendent qualified accountants acceptable to the Bank and
shall promptly after their preparation and not later than
four months after the close of the Borrower's fiscal year
transmit to the Bank certified copies of such statements
and a signed copy of the accountants' report.
SECTION 5.03. (a) The Bank and the Borrower shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and the Borrower


﻿8
shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under
the Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and any other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan and the maintenance
of the service thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Proj-
ect, the goods, and the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agree-
ment.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to identify the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use thereof
in the Project, to record the progress of the Project (in-
cluding the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the op-
erations and financial condition of the Borrower; and (ii)
shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect the Proj-
ect, the goods, all other plants, sites, works, properties and
equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
SECTION 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall at all times take all steps which
are necessary to maintain its existence and right to carry
on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business.


﻿9
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, equipment, machinery and other property, and
promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
in accordance with sound engineering and public utility
practices.
(c) The Borrower shall not, without the prior approval
of the Bank, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which shall be required for the effi-
cient operation of its business and undertaking.
SECTION 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
public utility practices.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower undertakes to insure the imported goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
SECTION 5.06. The Borrower undertakes that, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created
on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt,
such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the pay-
ment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any
such lien express provision will be made to that effect;
provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this
Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property,
at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the
payment of the purchase price of such property; (ii) any
lien on commercial goods to secure a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally


﻿10
incurred and to be paid out of the proceeds of sale of such
commercial goods; or (iii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt matur-
ing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
SECTION 5.07. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary
steps to ensure the establishment, and thereafter, the main-
tenance, of charges for water supplied by the Borrower,
which will provide revenues sufficient:
(i) to cover the operating expenses incurred for its
water supply systems;
(ii) to produce out of the revenue from the supply of
water an annual return on the value of the net fixed
water supply assets operated by the Borrower of
not less than 8o per annum except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree. This return is to cover inter-
est payments on borrowings, to meet periodic re-
payments on long-term indebtedness to the extent
that any such repayments exceed the provisions for
depreciation, and to produce reserves sufficient to
finance the normal year-to-year extensions of the
water supply system and to provide a reasonable
part of the cost of future major expansions.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The required annual return will be calculated by
using as the denominator the value of net fixed
water supply assets operated by the Borrower at
the beginning of the year in question and, as the
numerator, the operating income of the Borrower
from water supply for that year.
(ii) The term "value of net fixed water supply assets"
means the gross value of fixed assets determined
by valuation procedures as at 31st March, 1966, with
additions of plant and equipment at original cost


﻿11
less accumulated depreciation, based on deprecia-
tion methods acceptable to the Bank. The fixed as-
sets may be revalued from time to time by mutual
agreement between the Borrower, Guarantor and
the Bank on appropriate valuation methods accept-
able to all parties.
(iii) The term "operating income" means the difference
between operating revenues and operating expenses.
(iv) The term "operating revenues" means all revenues
from the sale of water, including monthly service
charges.
(v) The term "operating expenses" means all costs of
operation by the Borrower of the water supply facil-
ities, including a reasonable portion as agreed with
the Bank of overhead costs, maintenance expenses
and an adequate provision for depreciation, but
excluding interest and other charges on debt.
SECMON 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, other than for money
borrowed for financing the Project, unless its net revenues
for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a
later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times
the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt including the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of the
Borrower, in respect of water operations including debt
for the service of which the Borrower is responsible, matur-
ing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or
other instrument providing for such debt.


﻿12
(c) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from water operations, adjusted to take account of the
Borrower's rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of
debt even though they were not in effect during the fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate,
less all operating and administrative expenses and provi-
sion for taxes in respect of water operations, if any, but
before provision covering depreciation and debt service
requirements.
(d) The term "debt service requirement" shall mean
the aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges on debt.
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guar-
antor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate
of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at
the rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined by
the Bank.
SECTION 5.09. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the Guar-
antor or laws in effect in the territories of the Guarantor
on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or
registration of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agree-
ment or the Bonds, or the payment of principal, interest
or other charges thereunder; provided, however, that the
provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxation of
payments under any Bond to a holder thereof other than
the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned by an indi-
vidual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
Forrow, 5.10. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the coun-
try or countries in whose currency the Loan and the Bonds


﻿13
are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such
country or countries on or in connection with the execution,
issue, delivery or registration of the Loan Agreement, the
Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
SECTION 6.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a), paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of Section 5.02 of
the Loan Regulations shall occur and shall continue for a
period of thirty days, or (ii) if a default shall occur in the
payment of principal or interest or any other payment re-
quired under any other loan agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower or under any bond delivered pursuant
thereto or under any development credit agreement between
the Association and the Borrower and such default shall
continue for a period of thirty days, or (iii) if a default
shall occur in the payment of principal or interest or any
other payment required under any loan agreement or under
any guarantee agreement between the Guarantor and the
Bank or under any bond delivered pursuant to any such
agreement or under any development credit agreement be-
tween the Association and the Guarantor under circum-
stances which, in the judgment of the Bank, would make it
unlikely that the Guarantor would meet its obligations
under the Guarantee Agreement and such default shall
continue for a period of thirty days, or (iv) if any event
specified in Section 6.02 of this Agreement or in paragraph
(c) of Section 5.02 of the Loan Regulations shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower, then
at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the
Bank, at its option, may declare the principal of the Loan
and of all the bonds then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately, and upon any such declaration such principal
shall become due and payable immediately, anything in


﻿14
this Loan Agreement or in the Bonds to the contrary not-
withstanding.
SECTION 6.02. Pursuant to paragraph (1) of Section 5.02
of the Loan Regulations, the following is specified as an
additional event for the purposes of said Section, namely,
that any legislation or regulation of the Guarantor govern-
ing the establishment, organization, powers and operations
of the Borrower, shall have been materially amended, sus-
pended or abrogated without the agreement of the Bank,
so as to affect adversely the operations or financial condi-
tion of the Borrower or the performance by the Borrower
of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1972,
or such later date as may be agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower.
SECTION 7.02. The date of July 1, 1969 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 9.04 of the Loan Regula-
tions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.


﻿15
For the Borrower:
The Water Commission
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:
Water Commission
Kingston, Jamaica
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
THE WATER COMMISSION,
KINGSTON, JAMAICA
By /s/ MILTON RODRIGUES
Authorized Representative


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                Dollar Equivalent
A. Equipment and supplies for the construc-
tion of spring intake, pumping station,
ancillary structures and works, and instal-
lation of pumps and equipment             160,000
B. Equipment and supplies for the drilling
of wells, and for the installation of pumps
and equipment for wells and booster pump-
ing stations                              380,000
C. Equipment and supplies for the installa-
tion of transmission and distribution mains
and accessories, and for the construction of
reservoirs                               2,900,000
D. Engineering consulting services           320,000
E. Interest and other charges on the Loan
during construction but prior to October
16, 1971                                  660,000
F. Foreign  exchange component of locally
produced goods and of civil works contracts  120,000
G. Unallocated                               460,000
Total        5,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories A through F shall decrease, the amount
of the Loan then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Bank to Category
G.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories A through F shall increase, an amount


﻿17
equal to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan will be allocated by the
Bank, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category
from Category G, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Bank, in respect of
the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                 (expressed in dollars) *
April 15,1973                         85,000
October 15, 1973                      90,000
April 15, 1974                        90,000
October 15, 1974                      95,000
April 15, 1975                       100,000
October 15, 1975                     100,000
April 15, 1976                       105,000
October 15, 1976                     110,000
April 15, 1977                       110,000
October 15, 1977                     115,000
April 15, 1978                       120,000
October 15, 1978                     125,000
April 15, 1979                       125,000
October 15, 1979                     130,000
April 15,1980                        135,000
October 15, 1980                     140,000
April 15, 1981                       145,000
October 15, 1981                     150,000
April 15, 1982                       155,000
October 15, 1982                     160,000
April 15, 1983                       165,000
October 15, 1983                     170,000
April 15, 1984                       175,000
October 15, 1984                     180,000
April 15, 1985                       185,000
October 15, 1985                     195,000
April 15, 1986                       200,000
October 15, 1986                     205,000
April 15, 1987                       210,000
October 15, 1987                     220,000
April 15, 1988                       225,000
October 15, 1988                    235,000
April 15,1989                        250,000
* To the extent that any part of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see Loan Regulations, Section 3.03), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿19
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any part
of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section
2.05(b) of the Loan Regulations or on the redemption of
any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 6.16
of the Loan Regulations:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption      Premium
Not more than three years before maturity  %%
More than three years but not more than
six years before maturity ............. 13/4%
More than six years but not more than
eleven years before maturity .......... 2
More than eleven years but not more than
sixteen years before maturity .........  .  4%
More than sixteen years but not more than
eighteen years before maturity .........  . .5%
More than eighteen years before maturity 61/.%


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Description of Project
The Project consists of improvements and expansion of
the water supply facilities to the Kingston area, including:
(a) the construction of an intake, pumping station and
ancillary works to enable abstraction of up to 8.5
million Imperial gallons per day from Tulloch
Spring;
(b) The provision and installation of pumps, power fa-
cilities, measuring equipment, chlorinators, trans-
mission main from Tulloch to Kingston, and acces-
sory electrical and mechanical equipment;
(c) The acquisition of existing wells and the drilling of
new wells in the Spanish Town area to enable an
average abstraction of 5 million Imperial gallons per
day and associated construction works; the provision
and installation of pumps, power facilities, pumping
mains to connect with the Tulloch-Kingston main,
and accessory electrical and mechanical equipment,
measuring equipment and chlorinators;
(d) The construction or modification of pumping sta-
tions, reservoirs, and the provision of new water
mains in the supply area; and
(e) The drilling and equipping of wells in selected areas.
The Project is expected to be completed by mid-October
1971.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Goods
1. In respect of goods in Categories A, B, C and F as
set out in Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement, required to
be procured on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding under Section 3.02 of this Loan Agreement, identical
or similar items to be procured shall be grouped together
wherever practicable for the purposes of bidding and pro-
curement, and such grouping of items shall be subject to
the approval of the Bank.
2. In respect of (i) civil works contracts of US$100,000
equivalent and above and (ii) contracts for the purchase of
machincry, equipment and materials of US$25,000 equiva-
lent and above:
(a) the Borrower shall submit to the Bank, for review
and approval prior to the issuance of invitations to bid, a
description of the advertising procedures to be used and
copies of specifications, invitations to bid and draft con-
tract documents;
(b) prior to the award of any such contract, the Bor-
rower shall submit to the Bank for its approval evidence
of advertising, the analyses of bids received, the consult-
ants' recommendations and the Borrower's proposals for
awards, as well as copies of the proposed contracts;
(c) if the proposed final contract is to differ substantially
from the terms and conditions contained in the documents
previously approved by the Bank under sub-paragraphs
2(a) and 2(b) above, the text of the proposed changes shall
be submitted to the Bank for review and approval prior to
the execution of such contract; and
(d) one signed copy of any such contract shall be fur-
nished to the Bank promptly after its execution.


﻿22
3. In respect of (i) civil works contracts expected to cost
less than the equivalent of US$100,000, and (ii) contracts
for the purchase of machinery, equipment and materials
expected to cost less than the equivalent of US$25,000,
invitations to bid, specifications, bid evaluation reports, as
well as one signed copy of each such contract, and such
other relevant material as the Bank shall request, shall be
sent to the Bank promptly after the execution of any such
contract and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of any such contracts.


