Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6542-KH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 25.4 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
MAY 26, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(May 1995, official rate)
Riel 2,300 = I US dollar
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       Asian Development Bank
BCM       Bureau of the Council of Ministers
CDC       Cambodian Development Council
CG        Consultative Group
CIB       Cambodian Investment Board
CMEA    Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
ERC       Economic Rehabilitation Credit
ERP       Emergency Rehabilitation Project
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICORC    International Committee for the Reconstruction of Cambodia
IDA       International Development Association
IDF       Institutional Development Fund
IMF       International Monetary Fund
ITC       Interministerial Technical Committee on Administrative Reform
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
PMU       Project Management Unit
PSD       Private Sector Development
SDR       Special Drawing Right
SSCS      Secretariat of State for Civil Service
STF       Systemic Transformation Facility
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ................................
I. THE ECONOMY .
A. Recent Events .
B. Financing Requirements.                                                     4
II.  THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM                                               6
A. Macroeconomic Policy.                                                       6
B. Private Sector Development.                                                 9
C. Administrative Reform .12
III. THE ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT   .                              .15
A. Bank Assistance Strategy          ..15
B. Project Objectives .15
C. Social Cost of the Reform Program .16
D. Credit Disbursement    ..16
E. Procurement .17
F. Implementation Arrangements .17
G. Cofinancing    ..17
H. Benefits and Risks    ..18
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .19
A. Agreements .19
B. Recommendation .19
ANNEXES   ...........................................                                      21
1.  Government Statement of Development Policy .21
II. Government Program: Selected Reform Measures                              32
II[. List of Goods Eligible Under the Credit .33
APPENDIX TABLES
Table l: Key Economic Indicators .34
Table 2: Summary of Budget Operations .35
Table 3: Summary of Balance of Payments .36
Table 4: Financing Requirements .36
ATTACHMENTS  .......................................                                       37
1.  Timetable of Key Events .........................                         37
II. Status of Bank Group Operations ....................                      38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Kingdom of Cambodia.
Beneficiary:           Not applicable.
Poverty:               Not applicable.
Amount:                SDR 25.4 million (US$40 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms with a 40-year maturity, including 10 years of grace.
Commitment Fee:        0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:        IDA US$40 million equivalent.
Net Present Value:     Not applicable.
Project Identification
Number:                KH-PA-4035
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
FOR AN ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROGRAM
1.         I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Cambodia for SDR 25.4 million, the equivalent of US$40
million, on standard IDA terms, with maturity of 40 years, to help finance an Economic Rehabilitation
Program.
I. THE ECONOMY
A. Recent Events
Overview
2.         After nearly 20 years of war, internal strife, social upheaval, and command economy,
Cambodia has embarked on a rehabilitation and reconstruction program in its transition to a market
economy. Until 1992, Cambodia carried out its reforms largely on its own. International support to
the country resumed only after the October 1991 Paris Peace Accords and in response to the UN
Secretary-General's appeal, that same year, to support Cambodia's urgent rehabilitation efforts.
Immediately preceding and during the elections of May 1993 organized by the United Nations
Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC), Cambodia's situation was dire. Since then, the political
situation has stabilized and improved, although it remains fragile as a result of the delicate government
coalition that has emerged from the elections, and the armed conflict in the northwestern part of the
country between the Khmer Rouge dissidents and the Government Armed Forces. Seasoned observers
believe that the political situation will continue to improve, provided strong diplomatic, security, and
financial assistance from the international community continues. For some time to come, some of this
support will continue to be of an emergency nature, with all the risks associated with that type of
assistance.
3.         Cambodia is receiving strong international support. Under the mandate carried out by
UNTAC, US$1.72 billion was spent in an effort to bring basic security, stability, and democratic rule
to the country. On security, Australia, France, and the United States are continuing to assist with the
reform and rebuilding of the military. Regarding economic assistance, official donor pledges for
Cambodia's rehabilitation cumulatively amount to more than US$2 billion to date.
4.         The political and security situation notwithstanding, the Government has been able to
make good progress in addressing the most pressing economic issues. In the early 1990s the economy
was experiencing high inflation in the 150 percent range. The root source of this inflation was weak
public finances, in particular a large fiscal deficit for which there was not adequate financing. The
Government brought inflation down to moderate levels (31 percent in 1993 and 26 percent in 1994) and
has an inflation target of 10 percent for 1995. The Cambodian economy has grown fairly well
throughout this stabilization period. Real annual GDP growth was about 4 percent in 1993 and 1994.
As shown in the table below, the Government's medium-term program aims for 7 percent growth in
1995 and 7.5 percent growth in 1996-97. To finance Cambodia's development, both public and private
savings need to rise from the current low levels; gradual improvement in savings is reflected in the



- 2 -
medium-term projections. In addition, Cambodia requires strong external support. In the immediate
future the country needs quick-disbursing balance of payments and budget support. The need for this
emergency support will diminish and eventually disappear as the current budget deficit is gradually
eliminated. It is further anticipated that disbursements from project loans will gradually build up so
that the mix of ODA will shift from quick-disbursing to project support (see paras. 13 - 16).
Major Macroeconomnic Indicators
1993     1994     1995      1996     1997
GDP Growth (%)                                 4.1       4.0      7.0      7.5       7.5
Current Revenue/GDP (%)                         5.2      9.2      8.1       8.5      9.2
Current Expenditure/GDP (%)                    6.7      10.5      9.8      9.4       9.4
Current Budget Deficit/GDP (%) a/              -1.5     -0.7     -1.5     -0.7       0.0
Overall Budget Deficit/GDP (%) a/              -5.9     -6.0     -7.8     -7.1      -6.6
Investment/GDP (%)                             14.5     19.5     22.0     22.5      23.0
Gross National Savings/GDP (%)                 8.2       5.5      7.2      7.6       9.4
Current Account Deficit/GDP (%)                -6.3    -14.0    -14.8    -14.9    -13.5
a/ Cash basis.
Recent Policy Changes
5.         In 1979, after the defeat of the Democratic Kampuchea (Khmer Rouge) regime and a
change of government, reforms began, albeit still within an overall context of central planning. It was
not until 1985 that a process of market-oriented liberalization was initiated, with some private sector
activities sanctioned, joint ventures allowed, and most price controls lifted. The reform process was
broadened and accelerated from 1989. The key reform measure was the restoration of private property
ownership in 1989, which resulted in the abandonment of collective production in non-plantation
agriculture. In addition, the role of prices in the economic allocation system changed and all prices
were brought closer to international prices. In 1989 the Government launched a reform program that
gave state enterprises greater autonomy and strict budget constraints; allowed for the privatization of
state enterprises and other state assets; and encouraged foreign and local private investment. While
part of the state enterprise sector was being leased or sold, the remaining part was reduced in
importance by the much more rapid growth of the emerging private sector. Foreign investors have
bought or leased most of the privatized enterprises, most of which are medium-scale industrial
ventures. Until recently, licenses were required for all imports and exports. In September 1993, the
general licensing requirement was eliminated for most goods in which trade is undertaken by registered
companies. Owing to low customs duties and weak enforcement, Cambodia became a hub of sorts for
transit trade in the region. As a result of the above measures, the economic environment began to
improve at the beginning of the 1990s. In both 1991 and 1992, there was a moderate strengthening of



the balance of payments reflecting some increase in exports together with, in 1992, higher private
remittances, foreign direct investment, and service receipts.
6.          Although the initial results of the market-oriented reforms had been globally positive,
these reforms had yet to yield their full benefits on the internal and external balance when the Royal
Government was established. The main reasons for this were military strife, political and financial
instability, and numerous bottlenecks. Also, the transition from a command economy to an open
market system had not been well coordinated. A clear government policy had been missing, as well as
a trained civil service with a recognized tradition of public service and an established code of conduct.
Equally essential to the transition, but clearly missing, was a fully functioning and effective legal
framework attuned to the needs of a private enterprise system. Cambodia's macroeconomic situation
was still characterized by major imbalances (fiscal deficit, high inflation, trade and current account
deficits) as the aggregate demand for resources exceeded the resources available internally or obtainable
from abroad. In the various production and infrastructure sectors, most of the difficulties were a
combination of structural deficiencies and the effects of budgetary difficulties. Following 20 years of
war and dislocation, Cambodia's human resources had been severely depleted; in all sectors, the limited
number of qualified and trained personnel was a critical constraint to rehabilitation. Security concerns
and the widespread presence of mines also hampered the recovery process considerably in key sectors,
especially in agriculture.
7.         In September 1993, following the free elections of May 1993 and three months of an
interim government, the Royal Government of Cambodia was established. The Government called on
the Bank and the IMF to help strengthen and develop the reform program. With respect to capacity
building and emergency assistance, the Bank responded by providing technical assistance through an
IDF grant and by extending a US$62.7 million credit to finance an Emergency Rehabilitation Project
(ERP). The ERP's main objectives have been to: (i) allow for essential repairs and rehabilitation in
infrastructure, agriculture, and social sectors; and (ii) provide budget support through the counterpart
funds generated by the Credit. The IMF provided assistance through a Systemic Transformation
Facility (STF). In this context, together with the IMF, the Bank negotiated a Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) with the Government on the basis of which the IMF approved a three-year Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement of SDR 84 million in May 1994 in support of the
Government's stabilization program for the period 1994-96.'
Recent Performance
8.         Overall macroeconomic performance during 1994 was good despite adverse events,
including severe flooding followed by drought when the monsoon rains ended prematurely (see Table 1
in the Appendix). As a result, output growth in 1994 is estimated at 4 percent because of slower
increases in agricultural production (rice in particular: as much as 300,000 tons may have been lost due
to the combined effect of flooding and drought).
9.         With regard to budgetary policy, the Government is implementing all of the key measures
discussed during PFP negotiations, albeit some partially (the summary of the budget is presented in
Appendix Table 2). During the first part of 1994, budget revenue performance exceeded the initial
target as a result of strong customs performance and unexpected receipts from the export of forestry
products. While total expenditure was kept at a manageable level during the first part of the year, the
situation changed significantly in the second part of the year. Expenditure picked up sharply,
especially in defense and security. As regards external financing, the inflow of budget support was
The ESAF arrangement replaced the STF arrangement.



lower than expected: during the first three quarters, only half of the US$63 million envisaged in the
budget had been received at the Treasury; this reflected slower than anticipated disbursements by
bilateral donors together with difficulties in realizing the cash equivalent of commodity aid. However,
as a result of the adjustments taken in response to these budgetary developments, the Government was
able to meet its targets under the ESAF program. The current deficit was limited to 0.7 percent of
GDP (compared with 1.9 percent envisaged in the original budget). Similarly, the overall deficit was
limited to 6.0 percent of GDP (compared with the original target of 6.7 percent).
10.         With regard to monetary policy, the Government is maintaining tight limits on bank
financing of the budget and the public enterprise sector, a key objective agreed during PFP
negotiations. Minimum reserve requirements for commercial bank deposits were introduced in
December 1993, along with a system of penalties to ensure compliance with the obligatory bank
reserves. As a result, the Government was able to contain inflationary pressures while ensuring
sufficient availability of credit for the private sector.2 In addition, efforts to transform Cambodia's
banking system into a modern two-tier banking system have continued. At the same time, the National
Bank moved closer to the use of indirect policy instruments. As a step in this direction, interest rates
were freed, except for deposit rates which cannot be set below a rate specified by the National Bank.
HI.         With regard to trade and exchange rate policy, the Government continued to follow a
market-oriented exchange rate policy with a view to unifying the official and parallel exchange rates.
To help carry out this policy, the Government instituted a foreign exchange auction system managed by
the National Bank. The first auction took place in September 1993. Since early 1994, the spread
between the official and free market exchange rates has been kept to no more than 2 percent (less than
1 percent since July 1994). With regard to trade policy, as a result of measures taken before or in the
course of 1994, the following situation applies: (i) the import license system has been abolished, with
the exception of fire arms and pharmaceutical products; (ii) quantitative import restrictions have now all
been eliminated; (iii) export licenses are no longer required, except for rice, logs, sawn timber,
precious metals and stones, and antiquities3; and (iv) the following items are exempt from import
duties: school materials and equipment, pharmaceutical products, sporting goods, and agricultural
equipment and inputs.
12.         As part of its foreign investment policy, the Government passed a new, liberal investment
law in 1994. The main goal of this law is to streamline the foreign investment regime and provide
fiscal incentives to potential investors. However, the Government has yet to prepare the law's
implementing regulations.
B. Financing Requirements
13.         Cambodia requires donor financing for two main activities: to support the investment
program and to meet the budgetary deficit. Table 4 shows external financing requirements for 1995
and 1996 based on balance of payments projections (Table 3). The balance of payments outlook
assumes a reasonably stable political environment and continued implementation of a strategy aimed at
macroeconomic stability, rehabilitation, and reintegration into the world economy. Export growth is
projected to reach 11 percent in 1997 (after a likely decline in 1995-96 associated with a re-imposition
2 Inflation was being contained until the second part of the year when it rose as a result of higher food
prices caused by the floods.
3 The Government has announced that it will end the ban on rice exports in November 1995.



of the ban on log exports). This growth would reflect increases in non-traditional exports, spurred by
foreign investment. Export growth would be complemented by increases in receipts from tourism and
private transfers. After their sharp rise in 1994, partly because of improved statistical coverage,
imports would increase in dollar terms by about 6 percent annually to accommodate the requirements of
the public investment program. The external current account deficit is expected to widen to 15 percent
in 1995 and 1996 (from 14 percent in 1994) and then to narrow thereafter.
14.        Prospects for foreign assistance are broadly favorable. A significant pipeline of
multilateral and bilateral project assistance already exists. As a result of the mid-year floods and the
subsequent rice crop losses, the Government is receiving additional food aid to compensate for the
losses. Over time, private capital inflows are expected to make up an increasing share of Cambodia's
external financing, as foreign direct investment grows in response to the maintenance of stability and
implementation of reforms. Gross foreign reserves of the National Bank would increase to 2.9 months
of imports by 1996 (2.4 months in 1995) from 1.7 months of imports in 1994, which would provide an
adequate cushion against external shocks. In 1995, as reflected in Table 4, Cambodia is expected to
benefit from a major rescheduling of its outstanding external debt from the pre-1991 period.
Thereafter, external debt relative to GDP is projected to stabilize at just below 25 percent. Since
virtually all of this debt would be contracted on concessional terms, the debt service ratio (on accrual
basis) would be within a manageable level of about 18 percent. Current payments falling due on
pre-1975 debt are assumed to be covered by debt relief or additional financing flows.
15.        With regard to commoditv/budget aid, it is estimated that about US$75 million will be
required for 1995. Of this, a prospective US$20 million will come from past commitments of Japan,
the United Kingdom, France, the ADB, Germany, and the World Bank. The rest, about US$55
million, is expected to be financed by additional commitments made by donors at the March 1995
International Committee for the Reconstruction of Cambodia (ICORC) meeting. The proposed IDA
credit would be part of this financing. For 1996, the requirements are expected to be lower (about
US$64 million); they are to be financed, in part, by past commitments to which new commitments will
have to be added (see para. 17).
16.        With regard to public investments the Bank has examined the Government's 1994-96
Priority Investment Program and determined the amount of project aid flow necessary to support public
investment in each of the three years (see Table 4). These estimates show that disbursements from
pledges made at past donor conferences (including the Bank's own indications) would be sufficient to
cover public investment requirements provided donors were willing to make some shifts in allocations
toward higher priority projects and emerging needs.
17.        For these reallocations to take place the coordination of aid must be improved. The three
ICORC meetings have been successful at bringing Cambodia's problems and needs to the attention of
the international community. The meetings, however, have not substituted for normal aid coordination
sessions that would focus primarily on economic and technical, rather than political, aspects of
development. The participants of the March 1995 ICORC meeting recognized this shortcoming and
have agreed that a Consultative Group for Cambodia should be organized and should meet on a regular
basis. The first CG meeting is likely to be held in 1996, in time to review the financing of Cambodia's
budget and investment requirements for the second half of 1996 and beyond.



- 6 -
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
18.        The Government's reform program is described in its Policy Framework Paper. During
the preparation of this operation, the Government has provided additional details of its intentions during
1995 and 1996. These are indicated in the Government's Statement of Development Policy, which lays
out the broad policy direction (see Annex I, and Annex II for a summary matrix of key measures).
The TA Project under implementation is aimed at strengthening capacity to carry out these structural
measures. The Government's intended reforms fall into three broad areas of macroeconomic policy,
private sector development, and administrative reform.
A. Macroeconomic Policy
19.        The Government's strategy for 1995-97 is to maintain macroeconomic stability, to push
forward the process of reconstruction, and to continue putting in place the building blocks for a liberal
market economy. The key elements are (i) continued fiscal restraint, backed by transparent budget
procedures; (ii) an expanding public investment program aimed at reconstruction, supported by aid
financing; (iii) a conservative monetary policy; (iv) structural reforms in the financial sector, trade and
exchange systems, and civil service and public enterprises; and (v) normalization of relations with the
international financial community.
20.        In line with the PFP objectives, the Government's macroeconomic objectives for 1995 are
to achieve output growth of 7 percent, inflation of 10 percent, and an increase in the gross reserves of
the National Bank to 2.4 months of imports of goods and services by the end of 1995. As a result of
fiscal restraint, national saving would amount to a projected 7.2 percent of GDP in 1995. With
investment projected to increase to 22 percent of GDP, the external current account deficit would rise
to 14.8 percent of GDP. The bulk of the current account deficit would be financed on concessional
terms.
Budgetary Policy
21.         In 1995, the budget situation will remain very tight. The Government has adopted a
budget fraVlework that rests on a considerable revenue effort and continuing restraint on spending,
while it strictly limits bank financing of the budget. The maintenance of budgetary balance will depend
on: (i) a subs antial increase in customs duties on petrol by adjusting both the dutiable value and the
custoI<s duty to a more realistic level; (ii) the maintenance of tariff customs rates at the same 1994
levels; (iii) the strengthening of the domestic and customs collection administrations; (iv) no net
increase in the number of civil servants and no increase in civil service salaries; and (v) the
containment of defense spending.
22;   Q    For 1995 a current deficit of 1.5 percent of GDP is forecast (as compared withW0.7
percent in 1994). The overall deficit is projected to be 7.8 percent of GDP (compared with 6 percent
in 1994). Net domestic bank financing is to be limited to 0.2 percent of GDP. To realize this
objective, the Government requires US$75 million of external budget support and commodity aid, and
US$242 million of project aid (see paras. 15 - 17 and Appendix Table 4).
23.        While achieving the targets envisaged in the 1995 budget is feasible, it will require, above
all, strong political will and discipline in addition to the continued firm implementation of fiscal
reform. As regards resource mobilization, domestic taxation administration will be further



- 7 -
strengthened, especially in facilitating collection procedures, customs administration, and anti-
smuggling efforts. The new revenue measures to be implemented with the 1995 budget would raise the
equivalent of 0.4 percent of GDP, mostly from customs revenue. The main new revenue measure will
be an increase in the tariff rate on gasoline from 45 percent to 50 percent and an increase in the official
dutiable value (from US$200 per metric ton to US$275). On the non tax revenue side, no revenue
from log exports is assumed as a result of the reimposition of the ban. Also, strong efforts in the area
of tax reform are urgently needed: without tax reform the shift from external budget support to
domestic public savings in meeting budgetary requirements would not be possible. Hence, in 1995, the
Government intends to adopt a revised agenda and timetable for tax reform.
24.        While current expenditure in 1994 was kept under control, defense expenditure could not
be contained at the level envisaged in the revised budget. The Government realizes that strong,
concrete measures will be required to control defense expenditure in the future. In this regard, the
Government has started implementing the military reform announced in August 1994. The plan is
intended to reduce the size of the armed forces from the current 132,000 to 80,000 during 1995-97. In
line with measures adopted in the context of the 1995 Budget Law, the MEF will assign financial
controllers to the Ministry of Defense. The MEF will help the Ministry of Defense prepare
procurement expenses and will pay expenses directly to the suppliers. The Ministry of Defense is one
of four pilot ministries' in which such procedures will be enforced in 1995. These procedures are
expected to be extended to all ministries in 1996. Once this operation has been tested, and once it is
shown that the expenditure control measures can be enforced, the Government could commit itself to
specific expenditure reduction targets. The Government also intends to reduce the size of the civil
service by 20 percent by 1997 (see para. 53).
25.        Although the Government has made considerable headway in establishing a more modern
and appropriate budget and accounting system under the Budget Law, there is much to be done with
respect to consolidating system changes, especially in the line ministries and in provinces, since the
reforms to date have been largely limited to the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), namely: (i)
strengthening the budget preparation capacity of the MEF, the technical ministries, and the provinces;
(ii) strengthening public investment budgeting and management, including budget monitoring and
control mechanisms; (iii) strengthening Treasury cash management functions; and (iv) training
administrators of the technical ministries and provinces to understand and apply the new procedures and
training treasurers to understand the new expenditure and accounting system. The Government intends
to carry out this program during 1995-96 with substantial donor-financed technical assistance.
26.        Achieving the targets envisaged in the 1995 budget will require technical assistance from
the World Bank, the IMF, and other donors. The Bank TA Project will provide support aiming at: (i)
strengthening the budget preparation capacity of MEF, technical ministries, and provinces; (ii)
strengthening budget monitoring and control mechanisms; (iii) strengthening procurement procedures,
including at the Ministry of Defense; (iv) strengthening Treasury cash management functions; and (v)
training administrators of the technical ministries and provinces to understand and apply the budget
procedures adopted for the first time in the context of the 1994 budget.
Priorities for Public Investment
27.        The degree of success of the Government's reconstruction program and the rate at which
it is implemented depend heavily on improving investment programming at the national level. To
4 The Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are the other
three.



- 8 -
properly mobilize the resources needed to sustain the recovery process, it is necessary that the various
government agencies work together to establish investment priorities for the relevant sectors and
identify investment and budget requirements. In this context, the Government is taking the necessary
steps to build up its capacity for policy formulation, macroeconomic analysis, and aid coordination.
Through the Technical Assistance Project, the Bank is assisting the Government in these areas. Also,
the Government has proposed a Priority Investment Program (1994-96) which the Bank has reviewed in
connection with donor aid coordination meetings in 1994 and 1995. The six priority areas of the
Investment Program are: agriculture and rural development; transport; energy; water supply; health;
and education.5
Monetary Policy and Financial Sector Reform
28.         Over the period 1995-96, the Government envisages the development of financial
programming, a more active use of interest rate policy, the development of new instruments of
monetary policy, and the introduction of broader financial sector reforms. Monetary policy in 1995
will aim at curbing the acceleration of inflation that occurred during the second half of 1994. A
significant decline in liquidity growth to 20 percent will be targeted during 1995 from the 33 percent
estimated during 1994. The growth of the net domestic assets of the banking system would be
consistent with this rate of monetary growth and projected balance of payments developments. The
increase in net credit to the Government from the banking system during 1995 will be limited to 0.2
percent of GDP, while, on an aggregate basis, bank lending to nonfinancial public enterprises will also
be limited. This tight fiscal position should permit a significant increase to take place in commercial
bank credit to the private sector.
29.         The key element of monetary control remains the maintenance of a tight fiscal position to
check bank financing of the budget. However, the transition toward a more market-oriented monetary
policy -- through the use of reserve requirements, purchases and sales of foreign currency, and interest
rate flexibility -- is under way. Efforts to develop other instruments of monetary policy will continue.
Banks will be allowed to set interest rates freely.
30.        The central bank also intends to put in place a system of bank supervision that would
address the recent proliferation of commercial banks in Cambodia. As a step toward this goal, a Bank
Supervision Commission was created in October 1993. The National Bank has already revamped the
licensing procedures for commercial banks in order to ensure that the new licenses will be issued only
to banks with an adequate capital base and a sound managerial record. Licenses granted to banks that
have not yet commenced operations have been withdrawn. The National Bank's banking supervision
function will be strengthened with the introduction of prudential ratios, loan classification and
provisioning guidelines, and adequate procedures for the review and examination of banks' returns and
for on-site inspection of their operations. In this context - and to complement the central banking law
which is expected to take effect from July 1995 -- a new financial institutions law has been prepared.
It includes provisions for bank licensing, supervision and liquidation of financial institutions, conduct of
5 The 1994-96 Priority Investment Program, together with appropriate sectoral policy measures and the
macroeconomic framework adopted by the government in the course of negotiating the PFP and preparing
the ESAF arrangement, are described in the World Bank 1994 economic report to the International
Committee on the Reconstruction of Cambodia, ICORC (Report No. 12667, February 1994). In its 1995
Report to ICORC (Report No. 13965, February 1995), the Bank focussed on the main issues and
bottlenecks that affected the implementation of Cambodia's rehabilitation program in 1994 and considered
the prospects for 1995 and 1996.



- 9 -
securities activities, and documentation of credit activities. This second law will be presented to the
National Assembly by September 1995.
31.        The Government is planning to carry out a currency reform in 1995-96. The reform,
launched in March 1995, consists of issuing new banknotes in larger denominations than currently
available and minting coins in the same denominations as the banknotes currently in circulation. This
currency reform is expected to encourage a shift from the use of foreign currency to riels, thereby
enhancing the effectiveness of monetary policy.
32.        As in other macroeconomic sub-sectors, these reforms are being undertaken in the context
of a substantial technical assistance effort. For example, in the area of banking, technical assistance
provided under a UNDP/IMF project focuses on further consolidating the financial sector by: (i)
completing the division of responsibilities between the central and commercial banking layers; (ii)
promoting competition among commercial banks to improve efficiency in financial intermediation; (iii)
developing the National Bank into an independent central bank with strong policy and supervisory
capabilities; and (iv) developing the tools for a more market-oriented approach to monetary policy.
International Trade Policy
33.        Today virtually all quantitative import restrictions have been eliminated and very few
export restrictions remain; some are to be lifted in 1995 (namely, rice). This has paved the way for
the Government to develop a policy for industrial development and to mobilize resources for it. The
development of Cambodia's industrial policy will have to be carried out in line with the liberal trade
policy that has apparently now been firmly established. Issues such as export promotion will have to
be considered in this context. The Government will require specialized technical assistance to help in
developing these policies.
Foreign Debt Policy
34.        As part of the normalization of its relations with the international financial community, the
Government has been seeking a regularization of its outstanding external debt from the pre-1991
period. The Government has requested the Paris Club to proceed with the rescheduling of the pre-1975
external debt to OECD countries. In January 1995, Cambodia was offered new, improved debt relief
terms which would allow up to a two-thirds writeoff of the debt stock. This accord is expected to be
confirmed during 1995; the Government is expecting US$239 million to be rescheduled in 1995 (see
Table 4). Regarding ruble claims by former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA)
countries, the Government has initiated discussions with those countries in order to resolve these
claims. The Bank TA Project will assist in: (i) developing the institutional and legal framework for the
management of Cambodia's public external debt, and (ii) establishing the new debt office in the MEF.
This program will include assisting the Government in preparing for debt rescheduling negotiations and
building capacity for debt reporting to the World Bank.
B. Private Sector Development
35.        The Cambodian Govermnent fully realizes that the complex task of reconstruction and
development cannot be achieved through an exclusive reliance on public enterprises or other public
entities and that the potential of the private sector should be harnessed more fully to meet the
development needs of Cambodian society and to reduce poverty. New investments are required in all
productive sectors of the economy. Reliable data on the private sector are not available, owing to the
lack of systematic enterprise registration, reporting, and surveys. Yet in Phnom Penh and other urban



- 10 -
centers, the mushrooming of dynamic private businesses is evident, in particular in construction,
commerce, cottage industries, and miscellaneous services.
Privatization
36.        In 1989 the administration launched a broad reform program which gave state owned
enterprises (SOEs) greater autonomy and strict budget constraints; allowed for the privatization of
SOEs and other state assets; and encouraged foreign and local private investment. Privatization made
gains in speed and scope that were unprecedented in the region, but this was largely "spontaneous,"
with limited transparency; and private business began to develop speculatively in commerce,
construction, and tourism. To date, leasing accounts for more than half of the privatization operations
under the main ministries.
37.        The Government realizes that privatization (that is, the sale of state assets to the private
sector) is potentially one of the ways of augmenting the role of the private sector. However, the
limited capacity and resources of the private sector in Cambodia, the weakness of the banking sector,
the absence of capital markets, political sensitivity to the sale of public enterprises to foreign private
interests, opposition to divestiture by the bureaucracy, and the limited governmental capacity to
negotiate privatization deals effectively are among the major factors accounting for the limited results
of the first privatization program.
38.         To remedy this situation, the Government has recently adopted a position paper on
privatization providing broad guidelines on the basis of which the divestiture program will be carried
out. - This paper, and the policy documents and the accompanying legal dispositions that will follow,
will provide the policy and legal frameworks that were missing in the first privatization program. In
addition, the Government will conduct a diagnosis of enterprises slated to remain in the public sector,
with a view to implementing individual rehabilitation programs in line with the following guidelines: (i)
the elimination of budgetary transfers; (ii) no credit by the National Bank; and (iii) quantitative limits
on the availability of credit from the commercial banks. Other measures to rehabilitate the public
enterprise sector include the establishment of a new legal framework for SOEs. Such a framework
would clarify relations between SOEs and the state with a view to identifying the responsibilities and
obligations of both sides. Under this framework, ministries would no longer undertake commercial
activities, either directly or indirectly, and the autonomy of SOEs would be ensured.
39.        The first piece of legislation of this framework is now being prepared with a view to
having it adopted by the Council of Ministers by July 1995 and passed by the National Assembly
before the end of the year. Also, in 1995 the Government will offer KAMPEXIM (trading company)
and CKC (petroleum company) for sale. The list of companies to be privatized will be prepared in
1995. The Bank TA Project is financing the services of an international expert to help the Government
carry out its PE reform and privatization program and will provide resources to finance audits of major
PEs as a guide for further action.
The Legal Environment
40.         Given the recent history of Cambodia, the country's existing legal and regulatory
framework in general, and its capacity to enforce existing laws and regulations in particular, is
exceedingly weak. Although today there does exist a body of law, however imprecise, and much
on-going preparation of new laws and regulations aimed at completing and improving the existing legal
framework, the evolution of the State to one in which the rule of law prevails is severely hampered by
at least three significant obstacles. Firstly, the crises which Cambodia has experienced since 1970 have
resulted in the destruction of much of what was the prevailing legal system, including underlying



- 11 -
institutions. The Khmer Rouge regime of the late 1970s simply abolished all recourse to law.
Secondly, there exists a very significant lack of resources, whether in financial, physical, or human
terms. For example, the salaries of magistrates are below basic subsistence levels and courtrooms,
especially those in provincial centers, typically lack basic security, filing cabinets and desks, telephones
and typewriters, and even writing paper. In addition, there is a gross shortage of qualified personnel
with the capacity to make any legal system operate properly. Thirdly, the present imperfections in the
political system often impact adversely on the program of legislative reforms. The sharing of executive
power by opposing political parties, which is reflected in each Ministry, naturally generates obstacles
and a politicized senior bureaucracy and thus results in a lack of coordinated legislative programs.
41.         The legal environment specifically for business and investments is deficient. Only a few
relevant laws have been passed, including the investment law passed by the National Assembly in
August 1994. Many other critical areas of commercial and business laws (for example, property,
companies, associations, contracts, dispute settlement, bankruptcy, mortgages, insurance, labor,
accounting, and mining) are absent. These gaps in the legal framework have adverse motivational
effects on entrepreneurs and potential investors; they also affect the implementation of donor-financed
programs. For existing laws, transparent implementation regulations are scarce and are not easily
accessible. Most regulations (including those on taxes, land, and foreign investment) are thus
negotiable on the enterprise level, and private business is not, on the whole, governed by the rule of
law. The secure establishment of private companies, which would require the provision of limited
liability, the recognition of the private ownership of property, the transfer of assets and other forms of
collateral, and a reasonably free access to land, is not adequately provided for. This state of affairs
fosters non-transparency and insecurity.
42.         The Government's medium-term program to develop a suitable enabling environment for
the development of private sector activities includes, among others: enactment of economic and
financial laws, including provisions for bankruptcy; enactment of implementing regulations to the
investment law which was enacted in August 1994; streamlining the foreign investment regime and
ensuring that the twin objectives of fiscal revenue and external competitiveness are served; adoption of
legislation to implement the provisions of the MIGA and ICSID conventions, with a view to providing
security for foreign investors; organization of the CDC's Cambodian Investment Board (CIB) as a
"one-stop" service agency to provide information, assistance and administrative services to prospective
investors, whether domestic or foreign.
The Institutional Environment
43.         Public Sector Organizations. An important component of a supportive institutional
framework is the capacity of the country's public agencies, both economic and financial, to plan and
implement the policies, laws, and regulations affecting the private sector. An exclusive focus on policy
reforms as a means of achieving private sector development (PSD) is an inadequate approach, given the
Cambodian realities. For example, where market power is a problem, the Government may need to
play a regulatory role. Public agencies will be required in some cases to monitor and assist the process
of PSD. Regulatory agencies (monopoly commissions, departments of company law, industrial
licensing agencies, etc.) and developmental and promotional agencies (CDC as a one-stop investment
promotion center, commercial banks, trade development agencies, industrial extension bureaus, etc.)
are examples of such public organizations.
44.         There is considerable risk that, although policies may be well conceived, there will be
poor implementation by public agencies. The concern is that the weakness of the public sector will
make required compliance burdensome and will render the many services to be provided to businesses
by the Government inadequate. Although the new investment law frees Cambodia of most of the



- 12 -
unnecessary bureaucratic requirements that usually hamper the private sector, government agencies will
need to be strengthened, particularly the CDC which has primary responsibility for implementing the
new law. In the absence of the investment law's implementing regulations, the CDC is being entrusted
with considerable discretionary powers. Furthermore, the information and advice required by private
entrepreneurs to respond to opportunities and constraints in the economy are not yet readily available.
45.         These are reasons why the Government intends to pay attention to the adequacy of the
policy and regulatory framework and the capacity and incentives of the public institutions relevant to
PSD. With regard to strengthening the CDC, UNDP, the World Bank, and the ADB will provide
some of the support needed by the Government.
46.         Private Sector Organizations. In Cambodia, apart from NGOs, the private sector is not
organized, which makes it difficult for its members to have any positive influence on government
policies and the institutional environment relevant to them. The Cambodian Government welcomes a
well-organized private sector and encourages collective endeavors that may take several forms,
including: (i) representative organizations such as chambers of commerce and small industry
associations; (ii) professional associations that uphold standards and educate their members (for
example, associations of accountants, auditors, lawyers, engineers, and managers); and (iii) resource
mobilizing and allocating bodies, such as stock exchanges and private financial institutions.
TA Support
47.         The TA Project will focus on assisting Cambodia to develop certain fundamental elements
of a suitable enabling legal environment for the development of private sector activities. The principal
objectives will be to: (i) assist in the re-establishment and strengthening of certain key legal institutional
capacities and procedures which are required for developing the economic and financial legal
framework necessary for private sector development in Cambodia; and (ii) provide the Government
with the assistance of qualified legal advisers. The PSD component of the Project will provide legal
advisory services, training and related equipment for implementing the following principal activities: (i)
preparing a diagnostic study to determine the progress and status of development to date of Cambodia's
economic and financial laws, and Cambodia's medium-term economic and financial legal reform
priority agenda; (ii) carrying out a comprehensive legal training needs assessment; (iii) formulating, on
the basis of the findings and recommendations of the legal diagnostic study and the training needs
assessment, a time-based master plan which clearly sets out the specific economic and financial legal
priority drafting and training measures to be implemented under the Project; and (iv) re-enforcing the
Government's official procedures for publishing, on a regular basis, Cambodia's Official Journal in the
Khmer, French and English languages.
C. Administrative Reform
Background
48.         Cambodia's public administration suffers from a severe shortage of skills owing to the
elimination and emigration of the educated during the 1970s and the subsequent isolation from external
aid, as well as the inadequacy of middle management skills resulting from a total lack of formal
education during the 1970s. In addition, the administration retains a number of organizational features
inherited from a command economy's concept of the state role. These features are not consistent with
the country's current requirements, which are aimed at producing the maximum results possible with
the limited means available. The size of the administration (close to 150,000 civil servants, or about
1.7 percent of the population -- or 3.5 percent when security forces are added) is much larger than
public management norms recommend, which leads to duplication and conflict of assignments within



- 13 -
the administration and is the root cause of current overstaffing. If the actual required number of civil
servants is kept at 1 percent of the population (a ratio more in line with world standards), the civil
service would need to be downsized by about 50,000 employees.
49.         The burden of government service on the country's budget is high. The combined civilian
and military wage bill accounts for close to 50 percent of the recurrent budget and crowds out other
operational expenditures. However, the average pay received by the civil servants (US$20 to US$30
per month) is quite low compared with the wage levels in the private sector labor market and the
monthly income (US$150) needed for decent living. This situation is at the root of the extremely low
professional commitment and motivation today.
50.         At present, the organization of the civil service subsumes all categories of state personnel
within a single system: the various branches of the administration, the state-owned enterprises, the
political parties, the mass organizations, and the trade unions. In addition, the civil service suffers
from a number of organizational deficiencies which account for its inefficiency. There is no real
personnel management system nor is there a coherent body of rules or statutory regulations establishing
the rights and responsibilities of civil servants or laying down guidelines in areas such as recruitment,
training, career development, performance appraisal and promotion, and service discipline. The
existing systems of classification and career development, as well as the salary structure, do not provide
motivation for better performance among civil servants; neither do the latter help maintain the high
levels of professionalism, morale, and integrity needed for efficiency, and effectiveness. The
recruitment system is not based on merit but is highly politicized. There is no system of establishment
control for the creation of government posts, nor is there a procedure under which recruitment could
take place only for budgeted positions. The result is that appointments can be made at any time and on
considerations not related to merit or requirements of the job. The size of the administration also
increases coordination requirements, slows decision-making, and dilutes the authority of the state when
it is confronted with endemic implementation problems.
Government Program
51.         The Government is committed to reform the public service and to take the drastic
measures that will accompany this reform in order to increase its capacity and thereby improve its
effectiveness and efficiency. Publicly, and at the highest levels, the Government has announced its
determination to reduce the number of civil servants. Since 1993, the Government has been preparing
a wide-ranging administrative reform program with the technical support of UNDP. In 1994, the
Government officially approved the program in a policy document. To give it the required political
support, the program has been placed under the authority of the Council of Ministers. It has been
organized around the following five general thrusts.
Restructuring the Public Sector. Rationalization of the organization of the Government;
redefinition of the mandates and responsibilities of the various ministries and agencies;
legal reforms to provide an appropriate legal framework for public sector activities;
codification of texts and re-establishment of the Official Journal; judicial reforms.
Strengthening the Management of Line Ministries. Administrative simplification,
rationalization and standardization of procedures; creation of information systems;
intensive training of senior managers; improvement of responsiveness to public needs and
enhanced service delivery. The program will be started in pilot ministries and then will
be adapted as needed for the rest of the Government.



- 14 -
Reforming Civil Service Management. Establishment of control over the civil service by
controlling recruitment and other personnel movements, carrying out a census, eliminating
irregularities, establishing a reliable data base and a payroll system; development of a
strategy for reducing the size of the civil service through departure programs and the
provision of packages; preparation of detailed ministerial staffing plans and matching of
posts and individuals; provision of a functioning personnel management system for the
Government; reforming of key systems and functions: career management, remuneration,
evaluation, training, and the pension plan.
Developing Human Resources for the Public Sector. Identification of training needs and
development of a training policy; setting up of an administrative training center;
implementation of the program.
Strengthening Provincial Administration. Establishment of the legal framework, including
the definition of the rights and responsibilities of the different jurisdictions and the legal
status of provincial personnel; capacity building in the Ministry of the Interior and in three
pilot provinces.                                        1
52.        The Government administrative reform is ambitious, broad in scope, and is scheduled to
last several years. The Government is preparing to implement the program. It is identifying priority
requirements with the help of the skills and resources currently available. The following agencies will
play a leading role in preparing and implementing the administrative reform: the Council of Ministers,
the Bureau of the Council of Ministers (BCM), and the Council's Interministerial Technical
Commission for Administrative Reform (ITC); and the State Secretariat for the Civil Service (SSCS).
The BCM is the key body for administrative monitoring and coordination. The SSCS has only a staff
of 68 and currently shares personnel management responsibilities with the Ministry of Planning and the
operational ministries. The ITC's day-today operations are run by its Executive Secretariat, which is
composed of 8 high-level staff; the Secretariat has overall responsibility for the design, implementation,
and evaluation of the public administration reform program.
53.        As part of the program, the Government intends to reduce the size of the civil service by
20 percent by 1997 (down from the present number of 144,000). As a first step, there will be no net
increase in the number of civil servants during 1995. In order to ensure control over hiring, the
Government will establish a system requiring that the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the
Secretariat of State for Civil Service countersign documents (called visas) before ministries or agencies
hire new staff. Furthermore, no increase in civil service salaries will take place. As a second step, the
Government conducted a head count of all civil servants on February 7, 1995, which enabled the
Government to identify some of the so-called "ghosts" and other anomalies in the payroll files. This
step will be followed later in 1995 by an actual census of the civil service.
54.        The Government is enlisting the support of donors for the detailed preparation and
subsequent urgent implementation of administrative reform program components. UNDP, the Bank,
the European Union, France, Australia, and New Zealand have indicated their intention of support.
Under the TA Project, the Bank's contribution will be to help the Government prepare a strategy to
reduce the number of staff in the civil service. The preparation of personnel departure schemes will be
carried out in parallel with the strengthening of the government capacity to implement the civil service
reform program once the study phase is over. Following the study phase under the TA Project, the
Government would implement the departure schemes, possibly to be supported under a follow-up
adjustment operation.



- 15 -
III. THE ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
A. Bank Assistance Strategy
55.        The Bank's assistance strategy has been fully articulated in the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Cambodia (Report No. 14465-KH, May 10, 1995). The strategy is directed at
restoring growth, reducing poverty, and supporting the country's transition to a market economy. Key
elements in the Bank's program to implement this strategy are support for: (a) augmenting government
capacity for policy formulation, public investment programming, and institutional reforms; (b) restoring
economic and social infrastructure; and (c) strengthening aid coordination to help guide the
international aid effort to the most effective areas.
56.        The Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) is a key component of the Bank's strategy for
Cambodia. In addition to this operation, the Bank will address: capacity building through the Technical
Assistance Project (FY95); social services needs through a Social Fund Project (FY95); needs in
infrastructure through the Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project (FY96) and the Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project (FY97); and needs in agriculture through the Agriculture Productivity and Rural
Development Project (FY97).
57.        During the preparation of this operation, the Government has issued a Statement of
Development Policy (see Annex I) which outlines the reform program ("the Program") that the
Government intends to implement during 1995 and 1996. This Statement is in line with the PFP; it
focusses on macroeconomic policy, private sector development, and administrative reform, as detailed
in the previous section.
58.        Given (i) the important reform measures already taken or being pursued under the
Government's program, (ii) the continuing need for balance of payments support, (iii) the steps taken
by the Government and donors to facilitate faster disbursements; and (iv) the fact that funds from the
ERP are expected to be fully disbursed or committed by June 30, 1995, continued Bank involvement in
supporting Cambodia's rehabilitation efforts is needed, hence the ERC. The ERC will provide
continued balance of payments support as a follow-up to the ERP and help the Government through
1995 and the first part of 1996. This will allow time for the efforts of other donors to improve
disbursements to bear fruit and assure a balanced contribution among donors over the 1994-96 period.
The Bank's financing will help avoid an economic relapse and prevent the financial effort made so far
by the international community from going to waste. The ERC is a single tranche operation with the
release of funds not tied to specific tranche release conditions. However, the Bank will monitor the
Program set forth in the Statement of Development Policy during 1995-96. This rehabilitation credit is
an intermediate step between the emergency credit and structural adjustment lending.
B. Project Objectives
59.        The overall objective of this operation is to assist Cambodia's recovery and its continued
transition to a market economy. The Credit of SDR 25.4 million (US$40 million equivalent) will
finance general imports of goods to meet part of Cambodia's short-term external financing
requirements. Both private and public sector imports will be eligible for financing, subject to a positive



- 16 -
list. Eligible goods are listed in Annex 111; they include raw materials, manufactured goods,
equipments, spare parts, and building materials. Counterpart funds generated by the Credit will be
utilized in budgets agreed with the Government in the context of the PFP negotiations and directed
toward priority investments that have been evaluated by the Bank in preparation for donor coordination
meetings in 1994 and 1995. These funds will make it possible for the Government to: (i) increase
public expenditures on health, education, and other social programs; (ii) fully finance the Government's
counterpart contribution to development projects; and (iii) finance priority investments carried out by
the Government, without donor assistance, in the provinces.
C. Social Cost of the Reform Program
60.         The ERC will make it possible for the Governrment to increase public expenditure on
health, education, and other social programs. A viable poverty reduction strategy in Cambodia should
first focus on promoting wide-ranging economic development by providing greater employment and
income generating opportunities. This strategy should aim at stimulating informal socio-economic
networks, including small enterprise development, and not replacing them with expensive and
ultimately unsustainable transfer programs that place a heavy burden on the official budget.
Nonetheless, identifying appropriate actions to protect and support essential expenditures during the
interim transitional phase of fiscal stabilization and economic transformation is critical. It can go some
way to containing social and political tensions. This is the objective that the Social Fund Project
(Report No. P-6620-KH, May 11, 1995) will help accomplish; the project will provide poor rural
families with short-term employment opportunities in local construction activities (health and education
facilities, water supply, small bridges, etc.) and restore local services and economic activities dependent
on such infrastructure. Also, a Poverty Assessment will commence in FY96; it will provide important
insights for the health and education sectors, as well as for rural development strategies.
D. Credit Disbursement
61.         Credit disbursement will be made on the basis of 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
imported goods to be provided under the project. Retroactive financing up to SDR 5.1 million (US$8
million equivalent) will be provided to reimburse expenditures for eligible imports incurred after
March 1, 1995. Disbursements will be administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. For
goods valued at less than US$3 million equivalent, the simplified document procedures for adjustment
operations will be followed. For such contracts, each valued at less than US$3 million, IDA will
reimburse the Borrower on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) prepared from the customs
certificates showing that eligible goods at least equal in value to the amount requested from IDA had
been imported into the country during the period under consideration. The customs certificates will be
retained by the MEF for review by supervision missions and for subsequent audit by the external
auditors. For contracts each valued at US$3 million equivalent or more, IDA will reimburse the
Borrower against full documentation: contracts, supplier invoices, date of importation. Withdrawal
applications will be consolidated in amounts of at least US$1 million. Goods already financed by
another IDA Credit or grant, or by other development assistance funds will not be eligible for financing
under the Credit. The Credit is expected to be disbursed over a period of one year. The closing date
will be June 30, 1997.



- 17 -
E. Procurement
62.        All procurement of goods under the project will be in conformity with the new World
Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995). The basic principles for procurement of goods under the
Credit are outlined below.
(a) The imported goods will have to be in one of the categories in the positive list (Annex
111).
(b) For large contracts valued at US$3 million equivalent or more each, ICB procedures will
be followed; such contracts will be subject to prior review.
(c) For contracts valued at less than US$3 million equivalent: (i) public sector entities will be
required to follow the Borrower's public procurement procedures, provided that such
procedures shall have been found acceptable to IDA; and (ii) private sector firms will be
required to follow shopping procedures in accordance with the Guidelines, and for
procurement for proprietary items, direct contracting may be used. Such contracts will be
subject to post review.
(d) No financing will be available under the Credit for contracts valued at less than
US$50,000 equivalent.
F. Implementation Arrangements
63.        To ensure an efficient and timely implementation of the project, the Project Management
Unit (PMU) established under the TA Project will serve as the implementation unit for the ERC.
Accordingly, its mandate has been extended by ministerial decision. The experience gained by the
local staff under the TA and Emergency Rehabilitation projects will benefit the management of the
ERC. The main responsibilities of the PMU will be as follows:
(a)  to collect the documents necessary for Credit disbursement and ensure that the
invoices are eligible for financing under the Credit;
(b)  to ensure that procurement is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement and IDA's Procurement Guidelines;
(c)  to maintain project records and accounts; and
(d)  to prepare and submit quarterly progress reports to IDA.
G. Cofinancing
64.        Sweden (SIDA) has expressed an interest in providing grant financing in parallel with this
Credit. The grant would also be disbursed against a positive list and would not be tied to exports of a
specific country.



- 18 -
H. Beneflts and Risks
65.        Benefits. The ERC will help the Government maintain its rehabilitation and reform efforts
in these difficult times of nation rebuilding. Specifically, the operation will help maintain the
momentum gained with the ERP and contribute to an international aid effort directed at restoring
essential economic and social services to speed economic recovery and increase social welfare. The
Bank's evaluation of the Government's Priority Investment Program has found that program to be a
well-focussed effort directed at key areas in agriculture/rural development, transportation, energy,
water, health, and education. In addition, this operation, together with the TA Credit, provides support
to the Government's efforts to strengthen capacity and to improve performance in macroeconomic
management, private sector development, and administrative reform.
66.        Risks. The main risk involves the fragile political and security situation in Cambodia.
All Cambodian political factions participated in the May 1993 elections except the PDK (Khmer
Rouge). Following the elections and three months of an interim government, a national government
was established in September 1993 within a framework of parliamentary democracy, under a new
constitution, with a constitutional monarch as head of state. The government comprises a coalition
between the royalist party (FUNCINPEC), the former communist governing party (CPP), and a smaller
religious party (BLDP). The Government has two Prime Ministers -- First Prime Minister Prince
Norodom Ranariddh from FUNCINPEC and Second Prime Minister Hun Sen from CPP -- and each
ministry is led by a minister from one major party with a vice minister from the other. This
arrangement is undoubtedly a source of tension, but even the most critical observers admit that, in spite
of the periodic complications, cooperation between the coalition partners remains workable, owing
partly to the apparently good relationship between the two prime ministers and partly to the unifying
influence of King Sihanouk.
67.        The Khmer Rouge insurgents are expected to continue to stage operations with a view
toward getting publicity and, ultimately, being asked to join the Government. Foreign diplomats
discount the prospect of the Khmer Rouge returning to power by military means, but they also see no
prospect for the Government decisively defeating the guerrillas in the present state of readiness of the
Royal Army. The Government, with the assistance of a number of bilateral donors, is preparing a
reorganization program for the military, with the aim of creating a leaner and more efficient
organization. Nevertheless, in the unlikely event that a situation would arise in which it would be
improbable that the agreed program could be carried out, the Association would have the right to
suspend disbursements.



- 19 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
68.        The Government's Statement of Development Policy which the authorities have prepared
is annexed to this report in order to affirm the type of economic reform program that the Government
is implementing. The Statement reflects the ongoing dialogue with the Bank on economic and
institutional reform. The Government will exchange views with the Bank on the progress achieved in
carrying out the program; this exchange of views will take place on the basis of progress reports
prepared by the Government. The PMU will be established and maintained with satisfactory staff and
terms of reference. Furthermore, for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account will be made on the basis of SOEs, the Government will: (i) maintain records and
separate accounts at the PMU reflecting such expenditures, and (ii) have these records and accounts
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each fiscal
year.
B. Recommendation
69.        I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of IDA, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Richard H. Frank
President ad interim
Attachments
Washington D.C.
May 26, 1995






- 21 -
Attachment 1
Cover Letter
A[N[STRY OF ECONO'',kAND F[NANCE                                                    r7
FAX /PHONE ( 8552 .3779g
KINGDOM. OF CAMD9OJA
Naiion - Re!!gioa . Ki,.q
Mr. Richard H. Frank                                          May, 19, 1995
Acting President
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C., 20433, U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Frank,
The attached Statement of Development Policy describes the Kingdom of Cambodia's
economic reform program. We request the Intemational Development Association to
assist in supporting this program with a Rehabilitation Credit in the amount of USD 40
million equivalent.
It is our intention to implement the program described in the attached Statement in order
to achieve economic recovery within a sustainable macroeconomic framework. We will
osely monitor the progress the program and, where appropriate, we will review
ary adjustments with the Association.
~   '~'~wnc  ~  yours,
Chhon
Sr. Minister in charge of Rehabilitation
and Development,
Minister of Economy and Finance
D 4S



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 10
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
About Selected Areas of Economic reforms to be SuDported by an
Economic Recoverv Credit
Development Obiectives and Strate2ies:
The Royal Government of Cambodia is commnitted to achieving a fair, equitable, just and
peaceful society and, through accelerating the rate of economic growth, to raise the living
standards of all Cambodians.
The main elements of the Government's strategy are: achieving a full-fledged market
economy; working with the private sector as a full partner in the rehabilitation and
development of the country; establishing a legislative and regulatory framework conducive
to a fair and stable investment climate; reforming the State apparatus and the public
service; developing human resources and providing the required physical infrastructure;
rural development and the sustainable management of natural resources; and gradually
integrating the country into the regional economy.
The overall situation in Cambodia has fundamentally changed following the Paris Peace
Accord of 1991. The free and fair elections in May 1993 have resulted in the adoption of a
new constitution, the establishment of a democratic system of governance and the
formation of the Royal Government. The political and socio-economic situation is
gradually being normalized. The National Programme to Rehabilitate and Develop
Cambodia (NPRD) has been formulated and strongly supported by the International
Community which made pledges for 1995 and 1996 of US$ 921.5 million at the Third
International Conference on the Reconstruction of Cambodia in Paris. At present, the total
amount of pledges made is U$ 2,290.2 million. In addition, to develop the.private sector,
the Investment Law of the Kingdom of Cambodia - which is one of the most liberal and
courageous - was promulgated by the National Assembly in August 1994, and it enacted
the legal framework necessary for undertaking the privatization program (as part of the
1995 Law of Finances) in December 1994. It is about to enact sub-decrees to facilitate
their implementation, and it is currently considering a draft Code of Commerce.
Despite remarkable progress, Cambodia continues to face many problems. GDP per capita
is approximately US$ 247, rendering Cambodia a Least Developed Country. GDP annual
growth was 7-8 % for the period 1991-1992, 3.9% for 1993, and 5.2% for 1994.
Domestic sources for GDP growth are very restricted. Despite GDP annual growth being
lower than expected because of flood followed by draught , macro-economic stability has
nevertheless been strengthened and the balance of payments was stronger than anticipated
in 1994. This represented a continuation of the stability achieved under the leadership of
the Royal Government since mid-1993.
While the Government is making significant progress in reaching financial stability, it is
convinced that further action is needed to ensure rapid and sustainable growth. The
Government's program on institutional and structural reforms include the following
elements: fiscal consolidation, restructuring the civil service and the armed forces.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 10
reforming the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and developing the private sector; financial
sector reform, liberalizing the international trade and investment system; and reforms at
the sector level to provide improved incentives for production. While the Government
believes that this medium-term program will yield substantial benefits in terms of ensurilna
long-term growth, it recognizes that there will be short-term costs of adjustment that must
be considered in determining the pace and sequencing of the reform program.
Against this background, the Government of Cambodia has adopted a medium-term
adjustment program for which it is seeking support from the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (EvF). Support from INvfF is in the form of a three-year
arrangemeit under the Enhanced  Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) covering mid
1994-mid 1997. In addition, the Government is requesting the support of IDA in the form
of an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) of US5 60 million, to be followed by possible
adjustment lending in 1996-1997.
Macro.eeonomic Framework and Rehlated Reform Measures
With regard to the macroeconomic framework for the adjustment program, the
Government's objectives are sununarized in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) prepared
in cooperation with the DIfF and the World Bank in April 1995, which provided the basis
for agreement with the IMF on the second year framework of the three-year ESAF
program. The objectives of the three-year program of financial stabilization and structural
adjustment outlined in the PFP are:
(i)   to consolidate the restoration of macroeconomic stability,
and
(ii)   to begin the process of rehabilitation which will provide the
basis for long-term reconstruction and sustained economic
growth and development.
The Government plans to continue updating its macroeconomic program on an annual
basis in close consultation with the staff of the Bank and the IF.
The following makes reference only to those reform measures that would be supported
under the ERC.
Fiscal Reform.
In order to bring about a subsrantial increase in saving and investment, the Government
believes that sound fiscal management and structural reform of the public revenue and
expenditure systems are essential to achieve its objectives. Altlhough some progress has
been made recently, the budget situation remains precarious. On the revenue side, the
current tax system is narrowly based and inelastic. The entire agricultural sector is untaxed
and, until very recently, there have been no taxes on consumption and personal income.
The heavy reliance on import duties makes the tax system inelastic and vulnerable to
external conditions. Currently, total revenue covers only three-quarters ot current
expenditure.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 10
The Royal Government aiis to raise revenue from about 5.2% to about 9.1 % of GDP
between 1993-1996, with a view to covering the entire current expenditure by 1996. In
order to achieve this target, the Royal Government implemented several measures during
1994, such as, a revision of the turnover tax to expand coverage; a shift to an account-
based profit tax; an increase in vehicle registration fees; the second round increase in the
inmport duty on petroleum products; and the introduction of income tax, company proCits
tax, and property tax.
The Government is aware that efforts to modernize tax administration will be critical to
resource mobilization. In addition, the Royal Government has: (i) integrated the three
separate tax departments into two new departments (the Tax and Custom Departments);
(ii) introduced requirements for medium to large business to produce reliable and detailed
accounts; (iii) improved the penalty and appeals process; and (iv) streamlined the
computerization and codification of tax procedures. Over the medium term, the
GovemTfient intends to introduce a more modern broad-based tax with a hi-h built-in
elasticity. The Royal Government will establish an agenda and a time table for fundamental
tax reform. This will be especially important in order to lessen the burden on import duties
and to compensate for the anticipated decline in transit trade to neighboring countries.
Recognizing the urgent need to accelerate the phasing of tax reform, the Government will
initiate the first phase of tax reform in 1995 which would comprise : an increase in
consumption tax valuation and rates, including those on selected petroleum products,
aligning the turnover and consumption tax rates; and preparing a new excise tax.
On the expenditure side, it is of utmost importance to control current expenditure at a
level which meets macroeconomic requirements, such as the virtual elimination of
domestic banrk financing of the budget and, at the same time, which accommodates the
minimum  provision of basic services while reorienting the Government's spending
priorities from military to civilian needs. To achieve these goals, the Government has
targeted a reduction in current expenditure relative to GDP from  10 percent of GDP
expected in 1994 to slightly less than 9 percent by 1996. In order to secure the necessaryv
substantial increases in social sector spending such as health and education and also
expected increases in counterpart expenditures associated with foreign aid projects, the
Government is committed to mak-e savings, among others, by downsizing the civil service
by 20% by 1997, reducing its military establishment from  130,000 to 90,000 over three
years, and by cutting subsidies to the SOEs. In the event that revenue falls short of
projections, the Royal Government will react by implementing a set of contingency
revenue measures and by discretionary with-in year expenditure cuts which would,
however, protect basic services and priority investment.
The Government's ability to control expenditure has been enhanced by the reforms
associated with the preparation of 1994 and 1995 budgets, i.e., reforims in the budget
system, in accounting  and expenditure procedures, and in the classification and control
systems. These reforms culminated in the approval by the Niational Assembly  of the
Organic Budget Law and the Finance law in December 1993. The laws provide tor annual
presentation and approval of the budget to the National Assembly and establish clearly the
authority of the central Treasury  over all state revenue collected by government
institutions. The new laws also contain provisions to ensure correct and transpa.%:.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 10
procedures such as introducing, competitive bidding procedures, separating budgeL
management from the financial control function with prior control of expenditure by the
financial controller, and adopting intemationally recognized accounting and classification
systems. In order to control expenditure, the 'MEF will place financial controllers at the
ministries of Defense, Education, Healch, and Foreign Affairs in 1995. The 4v[EF will help
the ministries to prepare procurement expenses, while the Treasury will pay expenses
directly to the suppliers. These procedures are expected to be extended to all ministries in
1996.
Although the Royal Government has made considerable headway in establishing a more
modern and appropriate budget system, there is much to be done with respect to
consolidating system changes and training personnel in the new procedures. In this regard,
immediate efforts will be concentrated on training a large number of financial controllers,
training provincial administrators to understand the new procedures, and training treasures
to understand the new expenditure and. accounting system. Over the medium term, the
Royal G6vernment is fully committed to improving mechanisms of budgetary reporting,
accountability and control. Adequate budget monitoring and control mechanisms will be
put in place through the firm establishment of audit and inspection procedures including
formulating laws and rules of bidding and procurement procedures as well as transparent
cash management functions. Regarding off-budget expenditure, the Royal Government
will mak-e efforts to bring off-budget rministerial expenditure back within central control,
establish incentives for improved central - provincial fiscal relation, and bring off-budget
social spending within the overall budgetary framework. Regarding revenues, the principle
of a unified budget will be adhered to, assuring that all public revenues go through the
Treasury.
Customs Reform.
Import duties represent 60% of tax revenues with 75% of import duties attributed to
goods that are re-exported. The Government has undergone in-depth modemization of the
customs regime since September 1993. The elements introduced were: (i) a simplified
tariff structure; (ii) a requirement to use C.I.F.: (iii) a turnover tax called a consumption
tax; (iv) a tax return regime and procedures that are being standardized; and (v) the
beginning of audits of declared values. Although the Government recognizes that
development of the new domestic revenue sources will be critical over the medium term,
import duties will be the predominant source for revenue for years to come. In this regard,
the Government will make every effort to strengthen custom administration, building on
the improvements made in 1993 and 1994. There are two broad areas in which immediate
improvements are required, namely, the need for improving the legal and regulatory
arrangement, especially the formulation of the Customs Code, and the need for continued
improvement of administrative procedures including computerization. We intend to: (i)
finalize the Customs Code which will establish rules for clearance, transit penalties,
appeals, etc., in the first half of 1995; (ii) improve custom procedures to facilitate
importers without relaxing controls; (iii) begin to use customs brokers; (iv) train
surveillance and valuation technique officers; (v) provide training for border control and
smuggling detection; (vi) establish computerization of procedures; and (vii) reorganize
Customs Department.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 10
External Debt MVIanagement.
The Government is seek-ing a regularization of its outstanding debt as part of the
normalization of its relations with the international comimunity. The Government no longer
has records of its pre-1979 debt in convertible currencies, but preliminary information
indicates that there are claims by OECD countries. In addition, there are ruble claims by
former CNMEA countries. The Roval Government welcomes new, improved debt relief
terms offered by the Paris Club on January 26, 1995 for a regularization of external debt
to OECD  countries and is beginning to discuss bilateral arrangements. The Royal
Government intends to undertake bilateral discussions with former CNIEA countries in
order to resolve their claims.
The Government will maintain a caurious approach to the contracting of external debt on
commefrcal terms over the medium term. Such borrowing will not be undertaken excepc in
highly exceptional cases for financing potentially high return investments of a pure
commercial nature. In addition, the Government will strictly limit short-term public sector
borrowing and the guaranteeing or contracting of such borrowing on commercial terms.
Concessional external debt will continue to be contracted orly after careful review, taking
into account economic viability and prospective returns.
The external debt management responsibility was recently given to the Department of
External Finance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Recognizing the importance of
setting up an appropriate structure of debt management as soon as possible, the
Government will (i) prepare a master plan for the establishment of the new debt office at
the NMinistry of Economy and Finance, including an organization and staffing plan during
the 1st semester of 1995; (ii) create a computerized debt management system; (iii) train
debt management officers; and (iv) formulate debt management strategy consistent with
overall macroeconomic framework. In addition, the Government is aware that debt
reporting to the World Bank in accordance with the World Bank format is the
responsibility of all members of the World Bank and the international financial community,
and that it is a pre-requisite for the approval of any World Bank lending. The Government
will begin to prepare for debt reporting with the assistance of the External Debt Division
of the World Bank so that we will be able to provide a preliminary debt reporting for the
Board presentation of the World Bank Economic Recovery Credit scheduled for mid-
1995.
Public investment programming and Aid coordination.
One of the objectives is to restore national/public savings. Over more than two decades,
national saving was minimal and almost non-existent. In 1993, it was only 7.9% of GDP.
Government investment expenditure increased from 4.4 % of GDP in 1993 to 5% in 1994,
but remains overwhelmingly financed by external assistance. Since recently,  the
Government has worked closely with the staff of the Bank and INiF to develop a
comprehensive program of fiscal reforms to increase public savings. It is the intention of
the Government to continue building on this foundation to develop a fiscal system that is
fully capable of responding to the needs of the country by channeling external resources to



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 10
development programs of the highest priority, especially those in the areas of rural
development and human resource development, ensuring that due regard for efficiency in
the use of scare public resources is strictly enforced, coordinating aid, reducing current
expenditures to allocate due resources to investment. To this end, the Royal Government
will establish public investment management system with technical assistance from the
World Bank, including setting up the Public Investment Budget Unit and establishing a
computerized project management system. Also, efforts will be made in prioritizing public
investment projects with assistance from the ADB. The Royal Government will ensure
close coordination between these two programs of technical assistance, and with the
program of aid coordination supported by UNDP.
For the Government to succeed, institutional shortcomings need to be addressed as a
matter of urgency. The public investment's arm of the Council for the Development of
Cambodia (CDC), the Cambodian Rehabilitation and Development Board (CRDB) acts as
a focal point and one-stop service body to facilitate and to coordinate the implementation
of bilatefat and multilateral aid programs. CDC/CRDB is committed to building up its
capacity for strategic planning, project preparation, negotiation, project monitoring, and
aid coordination.
The Government also recognizes that, without an improvement in the managerial capacity
of the ministries and public agencies concerned, the potential benefits to be generated by
increased capital investment would either not materialize or not endure. Accordingly, the
Government plans to address the planning and managerial shortcomings of ministries,
utilities and agencies involved in the economic infrastructure (transport, water supply,
sewerage, and power), in social infrastructure (health and education), in protecting the
environment, in the productive sectors, and in establishing the legal policies and
instruments to facilitate private sector development. This effort will include developing
capacity to undertake long-term master plan studies to guide policy formation and
investment planning.
.Addressing these issues are presently beyond the Royal Government's technical and
financial capacity. Therefore, the Government appeals to the World Bank and other donor
agencies to provide the needed technical and financial assistance.
Civil Service Reform.
The current state of the Cambodia public administration is an important factor in the
country's very limited implementation capacity. Its features are not consistent with the
country's current development requirements. The main problem of the Cambodian public
service is the plethora of personnel. This leads to inefficiency and undue pressures on the
budget, and severely constrains the Government's freedom of action. Civil servants are
unevenly distributed between ministries and within ministries and between the capital and
the provinces. But equally important is a dire lack of qualified personnel. To improve
efficiency of the administration and increase its capacity to prepare and implement the
country's recovery program, the Government realizes that it has no choice but to conduct
a comprehensive reform of the civil service. The National Programme to Reform the
Administration (NPRA) was adopted in February 1995 and the UNDP. the World Bank.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 10
the European Union and other bilateral contributors, are assisting in improving the
technical capacity of the civil service in a number of important areas. The NPRA is to
undertake a reform of the civil service along the following lines.
Review of the Or2anizational Structure
The objective is to improve the efiiciencv of the Administration through the review of its
structure, staffing, and operational budgets of ministries. This will require preparing the
basic laws to organize and define the operations of the State. Then, the mission and
mandate of each ministry will be clarified so as to eliminate overlaps and avoid an undue
fragmentation of responsibilities. New organizational and staffing plans will be prepared,
on the basis of which organic and operational budgets for each will be adopted.
The Government intends to carry out an operational review and implement new structures
and staffing plans for all ministries. It is aware however, that this path to reform will not
improve efficiency in the immediate future, particularly in areas that are vital to the
rehabilitation process. Hence, the Government will carry out a parallel action involving
key ministries, namely those in charge of Finance, Civil Service, Education, Health, and
AAgriculture.
Reform of the Regulatorv Framework
The rules and regulations governing the personnel of the civil service are incomplete and,
more importantly, the existing provisions are not fully applied. However, the Government
has prepared a Common Statute for the Civil Service which establishes both the State's
rights and obligations as an employer, and those of its employees; stops the automatic
hiring of students; and undertakes to reduce manpower by 20% bv 1997. There was also a
first headcount of staff in Februarv 1995.
Reform of Personnel Nlana2ement
At the present time, personnel management is distributed among four different ministries.
The Government will group overall responsibility for personnel management into the
newly established Secretariat of the Civil Service in the Prime iviinister's office. This
institution  will share  its  responsibilities  with  other  ministries  and  provincial
administrations. Every personnel department in each ministry and provincial administration
will be responsible for managing the personnel of its ministry according to set policies and
standards, to be determined. Personnel information will be centralized.
Creation of Compensation Schemes
While the Government believes that the adjustment program will yield substantial benefits
in terms of ensuring long-term growvth, it recognizes that there will be short-term  costs
that must be considered in determining the pace and sequencing of the reform program.
The Government requires assistance in maintaining the pace of the reform prog,ram by
providing special balance-of-payments support to help mitigate the cost arising from the
adjustment process.



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 10
In reducing the size of the civil serv ice, the Government will have to tak-e into account the
political and economic realities of the country. First, it is envisaged to identify the number
and the required qualifications of the personnel needed. Second, it will identifv members
of the civil service who do not satisfy minimal requirements. Finally, management will
identify those who will be trained, or provided suppori to integrate into the private sector.
Initially, collective groups will be encouraged to depart voluntarily. The staffing plans
mentioned above will facilitate the retrenchment exercise.
The retrenchment program will be developed in close consultation with the World Banki
and the other contributors. Incentives will be calibrated to facilitate the reintegration of
those displaced and the retention of essential personnel. The incorporation of retrenched
personnel into the private sector will take time and will necessitate a large-scale vocational
training program. Severance payments and various incentives will be elements o' rh-
package. Demobilized militarv personnel will be offered the same facilities as retrenched
civil servants.
Trainine and in-service TraininZ.
The Royal School of Administration whose main mission is to train people for the
Administration will continue to undergo major reforms. Their curriculum will be adapted
to the new role of the Govemrnment and the needs of the State. Priority will be given to the
School of Finance, the Royal School of Administration, and l'Ecole de la Magistrature.
They will serve as training venues for civil servants who will be remain in public service.
Vocational Trainin2 for the Private sector.
Three projects, formulated by the ILO, are in operation. Although the initial target groups
are the unemployed youth as well as women and disadvantaged groups (widows. refugees,
ex-combatants, orphans and handicapped persons), the Government plans to extend the
scope of the projects to include demobilized military and retrenched civil servants
Provincial Administration
The Ministry of Interior has taken direct responsibility for the supervision and functioning
of the 19 provincial admirristrations and the two municipalities. Exterior services of
operational ministries are now  receiving, functional direction from  their respective
ministries in Phnom Penh. The Governor (and his office) is the administrative and political
representative of the central Government in the province. The province's annual budget is
now prepared by the Ministry of Economy and Finance with input from the provincial
administrations through Mvinistries. All revenues collected by the provincial administrations
are submitted immediately and in their entirety to the Treasury. These measures provide
for greater integration of the provincial admninistration with the central administration.
The following measures will allow for the future inte,ration of the provincial
administrations at all levels, including districts and communes.



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 9 of 10
N1Ian1.a2inJ2 a Transitional Period
In order to ensure the transfer from one administrative system to another: (i) some
NMinistries have already appointed their provincial directors while others will do so during
the first half of 1995; (ii) inter-ministerial seminars will be held by the M-inistry of Interior
in each province to disseminate information on the content of basic laws being prepared,
and for receipt of feedback and comment by administrators in the field; (iii) a
governmental infor-rnation campaign will be organized on behalf of the CDC to inform the
population of measures that are being implemented; and (iv) training programs for
provincial official will be organized.
Consolidation of Provincial Administration
The consolidation of the local administration will be done through: (i) formulation of an
orgarnic law on local administration, whose enactment is foreseen by article 127 of the
ConstitEiion of the Kingdom, and whose formulation will be done in consultation with
provincial authorities; (ii) a special training program for provincial officials will be set up,
in order to disseminate information on the content of their duties and how to perform
them; and (c) providing equipment for provincial administrations and departments.
Private sector Development
The objective of the Royal Government is to play the role of a facilitator for the private
sector within the framework of the free market system where open competition wil! be
encouraged. The target is to increase economic efficiency and provide better choice and
quality to the people while preparing at the same time local businesses to the reality of
world competition.
The search for economic efficiency will be translated into the Government's willingness to
privatize most of the state controlled companies and to facilitate the emergence of a strong
and dynamic private sector. The Law on Investment of the Kingdom of Cambodia
promulgated by the National Assembly on August 4th, 1994 represents a consistent
commitment of the Government to:
- Have an open and outward-looking economy;
- Strongly encourage private investments through competitive incentives, a good
legal frameworkl and guarantees; and
- Reduce bureaucracy for the private sector
Through the Law on Investment, the Royal Government would like to make job creation
one of its major priorities while promoting at the same time industrial growth, economic
decentralization from Phnom Penh City, and clear transparency in the business
transactions between the private sector and the CDC. The Code of Commerce, expected
to be promulgated soon, will further enhance the legal framework for the private sector.
The private investment arm of the CDC, the Cambodian Investment Board (CIB), is being



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 10 of 10
organized as a "one-stop service" organization aiming at promoting foreign and local
investments in the Kingdom. The specific role and field of the CIB will require competent
professionals with wide exposure to the private sector to staff the various key positions of
the organization in order to: first, increase effectiveness and efficiency; and, second, be
able to consistently train and upgrade junior staff in the long run.
To strengthen its expertise and better serve the Royal Government in strategic planning,
official contacts have been made between the CIB/CDC and a range of international
consultancy firms for potential cooperation in the field of industrial policy and investment
marketing. Another potential study on the competitive advantage of Cambodia is also
expected to be carried out. Both consultancy projects aim  at providing the Royal
Government a socio-economic vision in order to design policies that conform to the
realities of Cambodia and the global environment.
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization
In 1989, the Government launched a policy of divestiture, partial sales and leases of SOEs.
Progress so far has varied  considerably among Ministries and among  provinces.
Privatization has been most prevalent among SOEs with urban real estate; industrial
companies small and locally supervised SOEs. For some state enterprises, such as public
utilities, divestiture is often not an immediately feasible option, but management contracts,
contracting out, or spin-offs of some activities could enhance efficiency. Leasing accounts
for more than half of the privatization  operations under the main national ministries,
though some ministries would prefer to privatize by transforming SOEs into mixed
private-public enterprises, or joint ventures.
The National Assembly adopted the legal and institutional framework- necessary for
undertaking the privatization program in December 1994, and the Royal Government will
enact a sub-decree to facilitate its implementation in the near future. In its declaration on
privatization of December 1994, the Govemment extended the scope of privatization to all
state-owned industrial and commercial enterprises; and it defined the methods of
privatization and the roles of the institutions concemed. An Interministerial Committee
will supervise all operational aspects of privatization, and a Special Account will be
established in the National Treasury to handle all financial operations resulting from
privatization. Moreover, the December 1994 declaration also identifies a calendar of
events for 1995 in which the Government has plarned to privatize two large enterprises,
namely, the Companie de Distribution des Carburants ( CKC ) and the Compagr.e
d'import-Export (KAN2PEXIM).
However, the Government needs assistance to help prepare and implement its enterprise
reforn program, in particular, for the establishment of targeted safety net programs for
displaced employees and asset valuation in the privatization process.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Government Reform Program
Selected Reform Measures
Policy Area          Objectives                        Measures                       Timetable
Budgetary Policy    Increase revenue     - Initiate first phase of tax reform           1995
- Increase customs duties on petroleum products    1995
- Harmonize turnover tax with consumption tax    1996
- Prepare a new excise tax                    1996
- Continue strengthening the Tax and Customs  Ongoing
Administrations
Control Expenditures  - Assign MEF Controllers to Ministries of   July 1995
Defense, Education, Health, and Foreign Affairs
to establish and implement expenditure control
and procurement procedures
Foreign Debt Policy  Reschedule debt and   - Prepare for Paris Club debt rescheduling  Ongoing
strengthen debt
management
- Establish debt management unit in MEF      From Sept. 1995
Public Investment   Improve public inv.   - Adopt master plan for National Public       July 1995
management           Investment Management System
- Establish Public Investment Budget unit in  1995-96
MEF
PE Reform           Establish more        - Adopt new regulatory framework for PEs      July 1995
efficient and
streamlined PE sector
- Privatize KAMPEXIM and CKC                  1995
Private Sector      Develop enabling      - Promulgate Code of Commerce                March 1996
Development         environment
- Implement privatization policy              1995-96
- Enact implementing regulations to the       1995
investment law
- Organize the CIB as a "one-stop" service    1995-96
agency
Administrative      Reduce the size of    - Downsize civil service by 20 %              by 1997
Reform              civil service
- Prepare departure schemes                   1995
- Implement departure schemes                 1996-97
Source: Cambodian authorities.



- 33 -
ANNEX m
List of Goods Eligble Under the ERC
Agriculture equipment and supplies
Agriculture seeds, fertilizers, and persticides
Building and construction equipment
Building and construction materials
Cargo handling equipment and vehicles for all modes of transportation
Communication and telecommunication equipment
Drilling equipment and supplies
Essential foods and beverages
Industrial equipment and machinery
Intermediate goods for manufacture
Laboratory equipment and supplies
Manufactured goods
Medical equipment and supplies
Medical products, including drugs
Mining equipment and supplies
Office equipment and supplies
Petroleum products
Power distribution equipment and supplies
Power generation equipment and supplies
Printed materials
Printing equipment, raw materials, and supplies
Raw materials for manufacture
Storage equipment
Tools
Transportation vehicles
Water supply equipment and supplies
Other goods needed to support productive activities a/
Other goods needed to support the country's rehabilitation a/
Spare parts for all equipment listed above
a/ For which prior Bank clearance will be sought.



- 34 -
APPENDIX TABLES
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
1993        1994    1995 a/    1996 a/
Est.       Proj.       Proj.
(changes in percent)
Real GDP                                                                  4.1         4.0          7.0         7.5
CPI (December to December)                                               31.0         26.1        10.0         6.0
Domestic liquidity                                                       31.8        31.1         20.0          --
Net credit to Government                                                  19.6      -15.5          8.3          --
Velocity of money                                                        20.3         16.0        15.3          --
Exports of goods (value in US$, excluding re-exports)                   -26.5       218.3       -27.5        -39.1
Imports of goods (value in US$, retained)                                61.8        95.1         10.6         2.1
(as ratio of GDP, unless otherwise specified)
Budget revenue                                                            5.2         9.2          8.1         8.5
Budget expenditure                                                        11.0        15.8        16.1        15.8
Current expenditure                                                      6.7        10.5         9.8          9.4
Capital expenditure                                                      4.2         5.3         6.3          6.4
Current budget deficit (cash basis)                                      -1.5        -0.7        -1.5         -0.7
Overall budget deficit (cash basis)                                      -5.7        -6.0         -7.8        -7.1
Domestic investment                                                      14.5         19.5        22.0        22.5
Government investment                                                    4.3         5.3         6.3          6.4
Non-government investment                                               10.2        14.2         15.7        16.1
Financing of investment                                                   14.5        19.5        22.0        22.5
National savings                                                         8.2         5.5         7.2          7.6
Foreign savings                                                          6.3        14.0         14.8        14.9
Current account deficit (US$ million)                                  -137.0      -335.0      -409.0      -455.0
(in percent of GDP)                                                     -6.3       -14.0       -14.8       -14.9
Gross official reserves b/
(in US$ million)                                                        46.3       110.1       171.0       203.7
(in months of imports of goods and services)                             1.3         1.7         2.4          2.9
Memorandum items:
Nominal GDP (in billions of riels)                                      5,546       6,131       7,178        8,415
Official exchange rate (riels per USS)                                  2,470       2,563       2,600        2,750
a/ ESAF framework.
b/ Gross foreign reserves of National Bank.
Source: Cambodian authorities.



- 35 -
Table 2: Summary of Budget Operations, 1991-95
1991      1992      1993                1994                1995
Originia   Revised    Outtum   Budget
Budgct    Budget      Eat       law
(in billions of riels)
Revenue                                      58.8      156.1     290.1    460.0      496.7     566.4     581.1
Tax                                        31.1     109.7    234.1      361.1     336.8     364.6     461.5
Of which: Customs duties                  22.0      79.3     172.4     248.7     258.2     280.9     364.3
Nontax                                     27.8      46.3      56.0      98.9      159.9    201.8      119.6
Of which: SOE transfers                   25.8      42.3      53.6      90.9     153.0     195.0     113.9
o.w, forestry exploitation           NA        NA        3.9       5.8      86.4      80.8       3.8
Expenditures                                104.1     245.6     608.4      870.0     885.6     970.0    1053.4
Current expenditures                       98.9     238.6     373.2     577.6     585.6     646.5     652.7
Defense and security                      46.8     118.6     219.4     240.0     283.2     333.4     304.1
o.w. salaries                            NA        NA       102.9     138.9     158.9     183.6     188.2
Civilian                                  52.2     119.9     153.8     337.6     302.4     313.1     348.6
o.w. salaries                            NA        NA        67.4      96.6     109.7      99.6     125.9
Capital expenditure                         5.2       7.1     235.2     292.4     300.0     323.5     400.7
o.w. domestically-financed                 NA        NA       23.2      16.9      47.9      65.0      51.3
local projects                    NA         NA       23.2      16.9      40.8       NA       16.8
local cost of extemally-          NA        NA         --        --        7.1       NA       34.5
financed investment
Current Deficit (cash basis)                -15.4    -107.2    -83.1    -117.6       -88.9    -41.7      -71.6
Overall Deficit (cash basis)                -20.6    -114.3    -311.3   -410.0    -388.9   -365.2    -472.3
Financing                                    45.3       89.6     318.3    410.0      388.9     365.2     472.3
Foreign financing                           6.1       1.5    239.1      429.6     369.1     390.6     465.5
Project aid                               NA         NA      208.2     266.3     252.1     268.9     349.4
Budget support/commodity aid              NA         NA       30.9     163.3     117.0     121.7     116.1
Domestic financing                         39.2      88.1      79.2    -19.6       19.8    -25.4        6.8
o.w. bank financing                       14.5     112.1      30.7       0.0      11.8    -26.3       12.0
(in percent of GDP)
Revenue                                       4.4       6.2       5.2       7.5        8.1       9.2       8.1
Tax                                         2.3       4.4       4.2       5.9       5.5       5.9       6.4
Of which: Customs duties                   1.6       3.2       3.1       4.1       4.2       4.6       5.1
Nontax                                      2.1       1.8       1.0       1.6       2.6       3.3        1.7
Expenditures                                  7.8       9.8       11.0      14.2      14.4      15.8      14.7
Current expenditures                        7.4       9.5       6.7       9.4       9.6      10.5       9.1
Defense and security                       3.5       4.7       4.0       3.9       4.6       5.4       4.2
Civilian                                   3.9       4.8       2.8       5.5       4.9       5.1       4.9
Capital expenditure                         0.4       0.3       4.2       4.8       4.9       5.3       5.6
Current Deficit                              -1.2      -4.3      -1.5      -1.9       -1.5     -0.7       -1.0
Overall Deficit                              -1.5       -4.6     -5.6      -6.7       -6.3      -6.0      -6.6
Financing                                     3.4       3.6       5.7       6.7        6.3       6.0       6.6
Foreign financing                           0.5       0.1       4.3       7.0       6.0       6.4       6.5
Domestic financing                          2.9       3.5       1.4      -0.3       0.3      -0.4       0.1
o.w. bank financing                        1.1       4.5       0.6       0.0       0.2      -0.4       0.2
Memorandum item: Nominal GDP                 1,336     2.508     5,546     6,131     6,131     6,131     7,178
Source: Cambodian authorities.



- 36 -
Table 3: Summary of Balance of Payments, 1993-96
1993             1994            1995 a/           1996 a/
Et.              Proj.             Proj.
(in millions of US dollars)
Trade Balance                                           -185              -314              -393              -437
Total Exports                                           219               359               318               261
Exports                                                 38               120               87                 53
Re-exports                                             181              239               231               208
Total Imports                                           404               673               711               698
Of which: Retained Imports                             223              434               480               490
Service Balance                                           44               -56               -51               -51
Private Transfers                                          4                35                35                33
Current Account Balance                                 -137              -335              -409              -455
(excluding official transfers)
Official Transfers b/                                     96               235               233               247
Current Account Balance                                  -41              -101              -176              -209
(including official transfers)
Capital Account                                           80               135               180               185
Overall Balance                                           38                34                 4               -24
Gross Official Reserves
In Millions of US Dollars                                46               110               171               204
In Months of Retained Imports                           1.3               1.7               2.4               2.9
(in percent of GDP)
Trade Balance                                            -8.4            -13.1             -14.2             -14.3
Current Account Balance                                  -6.3            -14.0             -14.8             -14.9
(excluding official transfers)
Memorandum Item:
Nominal GDP (in millions of US$)                       2,192             2,392             2,761             3,060
a/ ESAF framework.
b/ There exists a break in the series as project granta through No0a are included from 1994.
Source: IMF estimates based on data provided by the Cambodian authorities
Table 4: External Financing Requirements, 1993-96
(in millions of US dollars)
1993             1994           1995 a/            1996 a/
Est              Proj.             Proj.
Use of Foreign Exchange                                  297               641               888               670
Of which:
Imports (retained)                                    223               434               480               490
Clearance of arrears b/                                 --              -15               225                --
Souces of Foreign Exchange                               188               342               288               293
Exports                                                  38               120                87                53
Service Receipts                                         72                56                76                87
Private Transfers                                         4                35                35                33
Private Capital Flows                                    75               130                90               120
External Financing Requirements                          110               299               600               377
Development Assistance                                  101               279               317               320
Commodity/Budget Aid                                    24               67                75                 64
Project Aid c/                                          77              212               242               256
IMF Disbursements                                         9                21                43                43
Debt rescheduling (including arrears)                    --                --               239                14
a/ ESAF framework.
b/ Does not include claims by former CMEA countries estimated at Rub 820 million.
c/ There exists a break in the series as project grants through NiOs are included from 1994.
Source: IMF and World Bank cstimates based on data provided by the Cambodian authorities.



- 37 -
ATTACHMENT I
Key Processing Events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare the Project:                 11 months
(b) Prepared by:                                      Government, with IDA assistance
(c) First IDA Mission:                                May 1994
(d) Appraisal/Negotiations:                           May 1995
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness:                    August 15, 1995
(f) List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:                  n.a.



- 38 -
ATTACHMENT 11
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMBODIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS a/
(As of March 31, 1995)
Loan or                                                                           Amount (USS million) b/
Credit     Fiscal                                                                    (less cancellations)
Number   Year                  Borrower                 Purpose                    IDA          Undisbursed
2550       1994               Cambodia    Emergency Rehabilitation                     62.70             15.47
2664       1995               Cambodia   Technical Assistance                           17.00            18.05
TOTAL                                                                       79.70             33.52
of which has been repaid                                                    0.00
Total Now Held By Bank and IDA                                              79.70
Amount sold                     0.00
of which repaid                0.00
Total Undisbursed                                                           33.52             33.52
a/l The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all IB3RD/IDA-financed projects in execution,
which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/ Principal amounts in US$ equivalent at date of negotiations, and undisbursed amounts in equivalent are valued at
exchange rate applicable on the date of this statement.
B. STATEMENT IFC INVESTMENTS
None












IMAGING
Report No; P-   6542 KH
Type: MOP



