Report No. PIC2235
Project Name                        Cambodia-Economic Rehabilitation...
Credit
Region                              East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                              Adjustment Lending
Project ID                          KHPA4035
Principal Responsible Agency        Ministry of Economy and Finance
Date PID Prepared                   May 1995
Projected Board Date                June 20, 1995
I. BACKGROUND
1.   After nearly 20 years of war, internal strife, social upheaval, and
a command economy, Cambodia has embarked on a rehabilitation and
reconstruction program in transition to a market economy. International
support to the country resumed after the 1991 Paris Peace Accords.
Immediately preceding and during the UN-sponsored elections of May 1993,
Cambodia's situation was dire. Since then, the political situation has
improved but remains fragile as a result of the delicate government
coalition that has emerged from the elections, and the armed conflict in
the northwestern part of the country between the Khmer Rouge dissidents
and the Government's Armed Forces. Thus, although the Government has
been able to make some progress in addressing the most pressing economic
issues, the overall political and security situation remains fluid and
uncertain.
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
2.   The Government is carrying out a reform program aimed at generating
rapid and sustainable growth that will help bring the population out of
poverty. The reform program addresses macroeconomic policy, private
sector development, and public sector reforms that should permit more
effective delivery of key services.   Macroeconomic measures will support
a program aimed at achieving 6-7 percent p.a. growth, 10 percent
inflation, an increase in public investment, and improved public sector
resource mobilization. The Government program in Private Sector
Development is aimed at speeding privatization while improving
performance of those state enterprises which would remain in the public
sector. At the same time, the private sector will also be supported by
adoption of the implementation regulations to the 1994 investment law
and the organization of the Cambodian Investment Board as a "One Stop"
service agency for domestic and foreign investors. Since 1993 the
Government has been preparing a wide-ranging administrative reform
program with the objectives of reducing costs and improving social
services. With a view toward cutting civilian staff by 20 percent and
military staff by about one-third by end-1997, the Government will
prepare departure programs to be carried out during 1996-97.
III. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
3.   The overall objective of the proposed operation will be to assist



Cambodia's recovery and its continued transition to a market economy.
The ERC will finance general critical imports for the public and private
sectors. The counterpart funds from the financing of imports will
support the general budget and will make it possible for the Government
to: (i) increase public expenditures on health, education, and other
social programs; (ii) fully finance the Government's counterpart
contribution to development projects; and (iii) finance priority small-
scale investments.
IV. SOCIAL ISSUES OF ADJUSTMENT
4.   Restoring social services after years of civil war is a key
component of an effective poverty alleviation strategy for Cambodia.
The Economic Recovery Credit will indirectly support this effort by
increasing the amount of resources available to the Government for
social service provision. The ERC complements IDA's Social Fund
Project, which aims to provide poor rural families with short-term
employment opportunities in local construction activities (health and
education facilities, water supply, small bridges, etc.) and to restore
local services and economic activities dependent on such infrastructure.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



