Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17210
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMBODIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
Credit No. 278 1-KH
December 15, 1997
South East Asia & Mongolia Country Unit
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cambodian Riel (R)
At appraisal = US$1 = 2400 Riel
At completion = US$1 = 2600 Riel
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
CIB           Camnbodian Investment Board
CMEA          Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
ERC           Economic Rehabilitation Credit
ERP           Emergency Rehabilitation Project
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ICORC         International Committee for the Reconstruction of Cambodia
IDA           International Development Association
IDF           Institutional Development Fund
IMF           International Monetary Fund
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance
NBC           National Bank of Carnbodia
NGO           Non-Government Organization
NPIMS         National Public Investment Management System
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
PMU           Project Management Unit
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credit
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
STF           Systemic Transformation Facility
TA            Technical Assistance
UNTAC         United Nations Transitional Authonty m Cambodia
Vice President       Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director             Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Task Manager:        Guy Darlan, EACSM



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P reface                                    ..   ..................   ..1.1.........  .......................   . ...   .....
Evaluation Summary ....                     ............. ................................................................. v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives                                                                                1
B. Relevance of Project Design                                       .4
C Achievement of Objectives                                         .5
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                    6
E    Project Sustainability ..................  .................................   6
F Borrower Performance                                            .7
G Bank Performance                                             .7
H. Assessment of Outcome                                           .8
I. Future Operations                                           .9
J. Key Lessons Learned .................. .    9
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:           Summary of Assessments ..........................................                11
Table 2.           Related Bank Operations ..........................................               12
Table 3:           Project Timetable ..........................................                     13
Table 4.           Credit Disbursements ..........................................                  13
Table 5-6:         Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation                          14
Table 7:            Studies under the Project ..........................................            16
Table 8:           Project Costs and Financing ..........................................           17
Table 9:           Economic Cost and Benefits ..........................................            18
Table 10:          Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................             18
Table 11:          Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...........                        18
Table 12:          Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................          19
Table 13           Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................              20
APPENDICES
Appendix A:   Completion Mission Aide Memoire ............................................                    21
Appendix B: Borrower's Evaluation Report submitted as a contribution
to the Implementation Completion Report ..................                ................    22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMBODIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT No. 2781-KH
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cambodia Economic
Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 2781-KH) in the amount of SDR 25.4 million, which was
approved on September 28, 1995 and made effective on December 18, 1995. The Credit
was supplemented by a grant from Sweden managed by the Bank.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1997, as originally scheduled. It was fully
disbursed and the final disbursement took place on February 6, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Guy Darlan (EACSM) and Ms. Annie Green
(EASPR), and was reviewed by Ms. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala (Country Director, EACSM)
and Mr. Roland K. Peters (Principal Econornist, EASPR). The borrower conducted a
separate evaluation of the project and provided a copy of the evaluation report to the
Bank. This report is included as Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR was based on material in the project file and completed
during the Bank's completion mission in October 1997. During that mission the Borrower
commented on the draft ICR.






v
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMBODIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit No. 2781-KH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)   In the early 1990s, after nearly 20 years of war, internal strife, social upheaval, and
a command economy, Cambodia embarked on a rehabilitation and reconstruction program
in its transition to a market economy. International support to the country resumed after
the October 1991 Paris Peace Accords; it was first limited to the resettlement of refugees
and internally displaced persons, and the preparation of national elections. After the May
1993 elections organized by the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
(UNTAC), a coalition government was established. International support to Cambodia
spread to all aspects of economic and social reconstruction, although it continued to be of
an emergency nature. By mid-1995, economic assistance pledged to the country had
reached $2 billion. The World Bank contributed to this international effort through an
Emergency Rehabilitation Project (ERP, Cr. 2550-KH), followed by this Economic
Rehabilitation Credit.
The Economic Rehabilitation Project (ERC)
(ii)   The ERC was designed to provide quick-disbursing balance of payments support
to Cambodia at a time when donor assistance was disbursing very slowly. When the ERC
was considered, the IMF had a three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) in place. The ERC was prepared in the context of the reform program outlined in
the 1994-96 Policy Framework Paper (PFP).
(iii)  The ERC was consistent with the Bank's policy on economic rehabilitation credits.
It was extended in support of an economic reform program; however, the release of funds
was not tied to specific policy-based conditions. Instead, the Bank was to monitor the
reform program set forth in the Government's Statement of Development Policy annexed
to the Report and Recommendation of the President of IDA to the Board. If, during the
implementation of the operation, the Bank determined that the program, or a significant
part of it, was not being carried out, Credit disbursement could be suspended.
(iv)   The ERC was meant to be an intermediate step between the emergency
rehabilitation credit and structural adjustment lending. The Bank elected to provide
balance of payments support in the form of an economic rehabilitation credit rather than a
structural adjustment credit because of the continuing fragile political situation and
institutional inadequacies in Cambodia. However, the Bank knew that the ERC alone
could not provide the support needed by the Government to implement its program,



vi
mainly because of weak implementation capacity, and the lack of dated covenants and
specific conditions of disbursement. The Bank therefore prepared a Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 2664-KH) that provided the direct support required in most areas of the
program supported by the ERC.
Project Objectives
(v)   The ERC had three objectives. The overall objective was to assist Cambodia's
recovery and its continued transition to a market economy. More specifically, the ERC
was to support the Government's effort to stabilize the economy, finance the balance of
payments without jeopardizing future creditworthiness, and support growth.  The
government program supported by the Credit fell into three broad areas: macroeconomic
policy, administrative reform, and private sector development. Second, the ERC was to
provide quick-disbursing balance of payments support to Cambodia at a time when donor
assistance was disbursing very slowly. And third, the counterpart funds generated by the
Credit would be utilized in budgets agreed with the Government in the context of PFP
negotiations. This would make it possible for the Government to: (i) increase public
expenditures on health, education, and other social programs; (ii) fully finance the
Government's counterpart contribution to donor-funded development projects; and (iii)
finance priority investments carried out by the Government, without donor assistance, in
the provinces. Consistent with the nature of economic rehabilitation credits--or structural
adjustment credits, for that matter--counterpart funds were not earmarked. It was
nevertheless expected that they would increase the amount of resources available to the
Government to finance the type of expenditures listed above.
Implementation Experience
(vi)  The project substantially achieved its agreed objectives.   Most of the
measures/targets identified under the Statement of Development Policy were satisfactorily
met. Financial stabilization was taking hold, as inflation was dramatically reduced and the
balance of payments was being financed without jeopardizing future creditworthiness.
Progress was also made in the transition toward a market-oriented economy. Second, the
ERC provided the bridge financing that was needed to help sustain the stabilization
program: the Credit met about 60 percent of Cambodia's budgetary support requirements.
Finally, the ERC resources helped the Government significantly increase its expenditures
for social programs, counterpart obligations, and productive investments.
(vii)  Based on the progress made by the Government in carrying out its program, the
Bank fully disbursed its own Credit (about $40 million) and Sweden's grant (about $5.5
million). The IDA Credit was disbursed smoothly, over a shorter period than anticipated
(13 months vs. 18 months). During the ERC disbursement period, from December 1995
to January 1997, the Government kept the program outlined in the Statement of
Development Policy generally on track. Slippages did occur, notably in civil service
reform and resource mobilization but, overall, the program was kept on track.



vii
Borrower Performance
(viii)  Borrower performance was satisfactory.  With regard to processing and
management of the operation, the Borrower was diligent and efficient. Staff attribute the
relative speed in project preparation to the Borrower's commitment to the IDA program
and its responsiveness to staff requests. The Project Management Unit (PMU) set up for
the Technical Assistance Project also managed the ERC and did so efficiently. Regarding
implementation of the program supported by the Credit, Cambodia was making
remarkable progress toward economic reform while the Credit was still disbursing (see
Annex Table 5-6).
Bank Performance
(ix)   Measured in terms of responsiveness to Cambodia's needs, Bank performance was
highly satisfactory, as indicated in the Government's own review of this operation. One of
the key elements in the Bank's program to implement its assistance strategy in this
country's post-conflict situation was to provide balance of payments and budget support
while measures were being taken to improve other donors' capacity to implement
development programs and release aid disbursements The ERC was therefore a key
component of that strategy.
(x)   Bank performance regarding processing and supervision was satisfactory. The
Credit was processed faster than the Emergency Rehabilitation Project, and faster than the
departmental average. Bank supervision was carried out through ERC supervision
missions as well as joint IMF/World Bank PFP monitoring missions. A total of 4 missions
took place over the relatively short period of ERC implementation (13 months), and there
was no turnover of Bank staff during preparation and implementation of the operation,
which provided the needed continuity in project supervision.
Sustainability
(xi)  The Government had great difficulty sustaining financial stabilization after the ERC
stopped disbursing. The ERC was successful in supporting the Government's effort to
stabilize the economy, finance balance of payments without jeopardizing future
creditworthiness, and provide budget support through counterpart funding. However,
toward the end of the ERC period there were concerns regarding macroeconomic
stabilization. These early signs of difficulty became more visible in 1997, after the ERC
had been fully disbursed.
(xii) For the stabilization program to be sustained, the Government needed to urgently
undertake the second round of reforms that had been envisaged in the PFP. The plan was
to support the deepening of the reform process with a follow-up Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC), with dated covenants and specific conditions of disbursement.
Unfortunately, the Government had difficulty meeting the conditions for a SAC. This
situation was compounded by the political events of July 1997, when one leader of the



viii
coalition government was ousted by the other. A stable political environment and key
actions to improve economic governance will be necessary preparatory steps for a SAC.
Key Lessons Learned
(xiii) The ERC for Cambodia yielded three main lessons:
*  An ERC is most effective when used as an intermediate step to a policy-based
structural adjustment operation.
*  An ERC is also most effective when accompanied by a Technical Assistance
Project.
*  The link between the ERC and the IMF program, although weak, is extremely
useful.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMBODIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit NO. 2781-KH)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The Setting
1.    After the defeat of the Khmer Rouge regime in 1979, and a change in government,
reforms began, albeit still within an overall context of central planning. It was not until
1989 that a process of market-oriented liberalization was initiated. As a result, the
economic environment began to improve at the beginning of the 1990s. Although the
initial results of the market-oriented reforms had been globally positive, these reforms had
yet to yield their full benefits on the internal and external balance when the Royal
Government was established in 1993. The transition from a command economy to an
open market system had not been well coordinated. A clear government policy had been
missing, as well as a trained civil service. Equally essential to the transition, but clearly
missing, was a functioning and effective legal framework attuned to the needs of a private
enterprise system.
2.   In September 1993, following the free elections of May 1993 and three months of
an interim government, the Royal Government of Cambodia was established. The new
government called on the World Bank and the IMF to help strengthen and develop the
reform program. With respect to capacity building and emergency assistance, the Bank
responded by providing technical assistance through an IDF grant--followed by an IDA
Technical Assistance (TA) Project--and by extending a $62.7 million credit to finance an
Emergency Rehabilitation Project. The ERP's main objectives were to: (i) allow for
essential repairs and rehabilitation in infrastructure, agriculture, and social sectors; and (ii)
provide budget support. When the budget support provided under the ERP was fully
disbursed, the Bank followed up with the ERC. The IMF provided assistance through a
Systemic Transformation Facility (STF). In this context, together with the IMF, the Bank
negotiated a PFP with the Government on the basis of which the IMF approved a three-
year ESAF arrangement of SDR 84 million in May 1994 in support of the Government's
stabilization program for the period 1994-96. The ESAF arrangement replaced the STF
arrangement.
Project Objectives
3.    The ERC had three objectives.  First, the overall objective was to assist
Cambodia's recovery and its continued transition to a market economy. This was to be



2
achieved through the implementation of the reform program outlined in the Statement of
Development Policy annexed to the MOP. The Statement contained many of the
measures agreed with the IMF and the Bank in the context of the 1994-96 PFP. Second,
the ERC was intended to provide quick-disbursing balance of payments support to
Cambodia at a time when donor assistance was disbursing very slowly. Potentially, the
large commitments made by donors at the 1993 and 1994 meetings of the International
Committee for the Reconstruction of Cambodia (ICORC) could provide the medium-term
financing required for Cambodia's reconstruction.  However, donors had difficulty
disbursing their funds, owing partly to the Government's weak implementation capacity
and partly to donors' lack of knowledge of and experience in Cambodia. While measures
were being taken to improve the Government's and the donors' collective capacity to
implement effective development programs and speed up aid disbursements, Cambodia's
balance of payments and budget financing needs could not be met. In concert with other
donors, IDA provided quick-disbursing balance of payments financing, starting in 1994
under the ERP, and continued to do so through the ERC. IDA's effort was meant to be
consistent with reasonable burden sharing And third, the counterpart funds generated by
the Credit would be utilized in budgets agreed with the Government in the context of PFP
negotiations. The Credit would thereby make it possible for the Government to increase
public expenditures on social programs; fully finance the Government's counterpart
contribution to donor-funded development projects; and finance priority investments
carried out by the Government without donor assistance.
4.   As it was described in the Statement of Development Policy, the government
program supported by the Credit fell into three broad areas: macroeconomic policy,
private sector development, and administrative reform. Whereas the ERC could only
provide indirect support to the government program, the companion TA Project provided
direct support--albeit limited--in program preparation and implementation.
Macroeconomic Policy
5.    The Government's strategy was to maintain macroeconomic stability mainly
through: (i) continued fiscal restraint backed by transparent budget procedures; (ii) an
expanding public investment program aimed at reconstruction, supported by aid financing;
(iii) and a conservative monetary policy.
6.    Budgetary Policy.  The maintenance of budgetary balance depended on a
substantial increase in revenue and tight control over expenditures. With regard to
revenue increase, the main measures were. increasing customs duties on petroleum
products; harmonizing the turnover tax with consumption tax; continuing to strengthen
the Tax and Customs administrations, and initiating the first phase of the tax reform To,
effectively control expenditures, the Government would need to find ways to limit defense
expenditures. In this regard, the Government had started implementing a military reform
designed to reduce the size of the armed forces. Another key measure was to assign
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) controllers to the Ministry of Defense to help
prepare procurement and pay expenses directly to the suppliers. Achieving the budgetary



3
targets required technical assistance from the World Bank, the IMF, and other donors.
The Bank delivered its assistance through the TA Project which was instrumental in
strengthening: the budget preparation capacity of MEF, technical ministries, and
provinces; budget monitoring and control mechanisms; procurement procedures, including
at the Ministry of Defense; and Treasury cash management functions.
7.    Public Investment. The degree of success of the Government's reconstruction
program and the rate at which it would be implemented depended heavily on improving
investment programming at the national level. To properly mobilize the resources needed
to sustain the recovery process, the Government was taking the necessary steps to build
capacity for policy formulation, macroeconomic analysis, and aid coordination. Key
measures were to adopt a National Public Investment Management System (NPIMS) and
to strengthen MEF capacity to prepare and manage the public investment budget. The TA
Project played the lead role in helping to implement these measures.
8.    Monetary Policy. Monetary policy in 1995 aimed at curbing inflation. Toward
that end, a significant decline in liquidity growth was targeted, the increase in net credit
from the banking system to the Government was limited to 0.2 percent of GDP, and bank
lending to public enterprises would also be limited. This tight fiscal position would permit
a significant increase in commercial credit to the private sector.
Private Sector Development and Privatization
9.    The Cambodian Government fully realized that the complex task of reconstruction
and development could not be achieved through an exclusive reliance on the public sector
and that the potential of the private sector had to be harnessed more fully to meet the
development needs of Cambodian society and reduce poverty. The Government further
realized that privatization of public enterprises was potentially one of the ways to augment
the role of the private sector. The Government had just adopted a position paper on
privatization providing broad guidelines for divestiture. Measures to rehabilitate the
public enterprise sector included the establishment of a new legal framework for state-
owned enterprises and the state with a view to identifying the responsibilities and
obligations of both sides. Under this framework, ministries would no longer undertake
commercial activities and the autonomy of state-owned enterprises would be ensured.
The Government also set out to offer KAMPEXIM (trading company) and CKC
(petroleum distribution company) for sale. The TA Project provided assistance to the
Government by financing the services of an international expert to help carry out the
public enterprise reform and privatization program.
10.   Given the recent history of Cambodia, the country's existing legal and regulatory
framework was exceedingly weak. The legal environment specific for business and
investment was particularly deficient. The key measures adopted by the Government to
address this situation were to: promulgate the Code of Commerce; enact the implementing
regulations of the investment law; and organize the Cambodian Investment Board (CIB)
as a "one-stop" service agency.



4
Administrative Reform
11.   Cambodia's public administration suffered from a severe shortage of skills owing to
the elimination and emigration of the educated during the 1970s and the subsequent
isolation from external aid, as well as the inadequacy of middle management skills
resulting from a total lack of formal education during the 1970s. To address this situation,
the Government adopted a comprehensive and ambitious administrative reform that
included reforming civil service management. In that context, the Government intended to
reduce the size of the civil service by 20 percent by 1997. This implied the preparation
and implementation of departure schemes. At the Government's request, the TA Project
resources were mobilized to help prepare the strategy to reduce the number of staff in the
civil service. Several options of departure schemes were developed with the help of
international experts.
B. RELEVANCE OF PROJECT DESIGN
12.   The ERC design was appropriate. It was consistent with the Bank's policy on
economic rehabilitation credits. The Credit was extended in support of an economic
reform program supported by the IMF. However, the release of funds was not tied to
specific policy-based conditions. Instead, the Bank would monitor the reform program set
forth in the Government's Statement of Development Policy annexed to the MOP for the
ERC. If, during the implementation of the operation, the Bank determined that the
program, or a significant part of it, was not being carried out, Credit disbursement could
be suspended  The ERC would finance general imports of goods to meet part of
Cambodia's short-term external financing requirements. Both private and public sector
imports were eligible for financing, subject to a positive list.
13.   The ERC was meant to be an intermediate step between the emergency
rehabilitation credit and structural adjustment lending. The Bank elected to provide
balance of payments support in the form of an economic rehabilitation credit rather than a
structural adjustment credit because of the continuing fragile political situation and
institutional inadequacies in Cambodia. At the time the ERC was approved in September
1995, the Region's expectation that the Government would carry out the agenda outlined
in the Statement of Development Policy appeared realistic. Macroeconomic performance
had been very good. Some of the policy shortfalls up to that time, such as control over
the size of the civil service, could be accounted for by the exigencies of coalition politics.
The coalition arrangements--two prime ministers, and ministries headed by a minister from
one of the two main parties and vice minister from the other--were tense, but working.
During the Board discussion on the ERC, some Executive Directors argued that the Bank
may miss the opportunity created by Cambodia's heavy dependence on IDA credits for
budget support by not making use of conditionalities to press for greater progress on
structural reforms. But most Executive Directors agreed with the Region that SAC-type
conditionality was not realistic because of institutional weaknesses; a general Statement of



5
Development Policy could be relied upon to serve as a flexible proxy standing in for the
fixed targets required by the SAC format.
14.   With hindsight, the reasons the Region offered for not applying conditionalities
appeared reasonable and are worth noting for the general problem of how to use
conditionality in any country's early post-conflict period where reestablished governance is
fragile and unpredictable. In the absence of good data or in-depth analysis on many issues,
it was not possible to have a high degree of confidence in the direction the Government
should go. The Government might fail to meet some conditions which would turn out to
be non-critical. In such a case, the Bank might have painted itself into a corner, forced
into a suspension of disbursements that would have affected other policy areas that did
turn out to be critical and where performance was satisfactory.  The civil service
downsizing is a good example.  Had the Credit included that specific condition,
disbursement would have been suspended when it turned out that downsizing was a
political non-starter, and arguably not a critical requirement for the rest of the program in
the short run.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
15.   The project substantially achieved its agreed objectives. First, the findings of the
supervision missions led to the conclusion that most of the measures/targets identified
under the Statement of Development Policy of the ERC had been, or were being,
satisfactorily met. The exceptions were: reaching the target for local revenue and
reducing the size of the civil service.' Financial stabilization was taking hold and the
economy expanded at an annual rate of 6 percent from 1993 to 1996. Inflation was
dramatically reduced and the balance of payments was being financed without jeopardizing
future creditworthiness. Progress was also made in the transition towards a market-
oriented economy: a two-tier banking system was being put in place and new large
denomination banknotes were introduced to promote "de-dollarization"; most non-tariff
barriers were eliminated; the tariff structure was streamlined; key public enterprises were
privatized; a liberal foreign investment law was adopted; and the spread between the
official and parallel market exchange rates had almost been eliminated. This rather
remarkable achievement in macroeconomic stabilization notwithstanding, there remained
fundamental disequilibria in the budgetary situation and the balance of payments, which
were disguised by a high level of financial support from the international community. The
Bank and IMF missions warned that the macroeconomic situation was not sustainable in
the medium term unless strong efforts in domestic resource mobilization were made
through implementing a comprehensive tax reform. The missions also pointed out that
insufficient accountability remained in awarding concessions in forestry and in channeling
revenues derived from the export of logs through the national budget.
At first, the mission determined that the projected increase in expenditures for social programs had not
taken place, but the Government later showed that this was not the case. The increase, particularly
in health expenditures, was significant and was therefore judged satisfactory.



6
16.   Second, as expected, the ERC did provide the necessary balance of payments
financing needed by the Government before other donors could speed up their
disbursements. ERC disbursements met about 60 percent of Cambodia's budgetary
support requirements. They made it easier for the Government to meet the quantitative
benchmarks related to these two performance criteria of the IMF program: "Net bank
credit to finance the budget" and "Net official foreign reserves".
17.   And third, the counterpart funds generated by the Credit boosted government
revenues and made it possible for the Government to: increase public expenditures on
health and other social programs; finance the Government's counterpart contribution to
donor-funded development projects; and finance priority investments carried out by the
Government, without donor assistance.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
18.   Based of the progress made by the Government in carrying out its program, the
Bank fully disbursed its own Credit (about $40 million) and Sweden's grant (about $5.5
million). During the ERC disbursement period, from December 1995 to January 1997, the
Government kept the program generally on track. Slippages did occur, in civil service
reform and resource mobilization but, overall, the program described in the Statement of
Development Policy was being implemented successfully. The IDA Credit was disbursed
over a shorter period than anticipated (13 months vs. 18 months).
19.  It is interesting to note, however, that Board presentation of the ERC was
postponed from June 1995 to September 1995 when doubts appeared about whether the
macroeconomic situation was under control. The amount of external debt contracted by
the Government on commercial terms in 1994 meant that the Government was not in fact
carrying out the program described in the Statement of Development Policy, and delayed
the finalization of the Second-Year PFP. The issues were the Government's inability to
control external debt contracting by the Cambodian military, and the lack of clear debt
accounting. This was satisfactorily resolved: the Ministry of Finance was given sole
authority for external borrowing, and adjustments to the 1995 budget were made to deal
with the debt. As a result, the Second-year PFP was finalized, which allowed the Board to
approve the ERC.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
20.   After the ERC stopped disbursing, the Government had difficulty sustaining
financial stabilization. The ERC was successful in supporting the Government's effort to
stabilize the economy, finance balance of payments without jeopardizing future
creditworthiness, and provide budget support through counterpart funding. However,



7
toward the end of the ERC period, there were concerns regarding macroeconomic
stabilization. These early signs of difficulty became more visible in 1997, after the ERC
had been fully disbursed. The Government's revenue effort was inadequate, and as the
budget support provided by the ERC was no longer available, this necessitated a severe
compression of current expenditures. This compression fell disproportionally on public
operational expenditures and economic infrastructure, because of continued high defense
and security expenditures.
21.   For the stabilization program to be sustained, the Government needed urgently to
undertake the second round of reforms that had been envisaged in the PFP. The most
important measures sought to achieve a substantial increase in government revenue
through strengthening the tax and customs administrations, comprehensive tax reform,
channeling log export revenues through the national budget, and control over tax
exemptions to foreign investors. The deepening of the reform process would have helped
sustain the achievements under the ERC. The Bank was ready to support such deepening
with a follow-up SAC, which could have given the Government the time it needed to
implement the measures and reach the revenue targets. The Government has repeatedly
asked for preparation of a SAC since July 1996. Unfortunately, it has not been able to
meet the conditions for a SAC, for two sets of reasons. First, in the first part of 1997, the
Government failed to show a real commitment to revitalize the revenue collection effort.
Furthermore, its management of Cambodia's forest resources has yet to produce tangible
results in the control of logging activities and granting of forest concessions. For similar
reasons, the EMF ESAF program lapsed in August 1997. Second, the political situation
that has resulted from the violent events of July 1997 in Cambodia is now making it
impossible to proceed with a SAC. A stable political environment and key actions to
improve economic governance will be necessary preparatory steps for a SAC.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
22.   Borrower performance was satisfactory.  With regard to processing and
management of the operation, the Borrower was diligent and efficient. Staff attribute the
relative speed in project preparation to the Borrower's commitment to the IDA program
and its responsiveness to staff requests. The PMU set up for the Technical Assistance
Project also managed the ERC and did so efficiently. The speed with which the Credit
was disbursed is indicative of the PMU's efficiency. Regarding implementation of the
program supported by the Credit, Cambodia was making remarkable progress toward
economic reform while the Credit was still disbursing (see Annex Table 5-6). There were
slippages during the life of the ERC, but they did not affect Credit disbursement.
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
23.   Measured in terms of responsiveness to Cambodia's needs, Bank performance was
highly satisfactory. The Bank's assistance strategy for Cambodia, as articulated in the first



8
Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 14465-KH, May 1995), was directed at
restoring growth and supporting Cambodia's transition to a market economy. One of the
key elements in the Bank's program to implement that strategy in the country's post-
conflict situation was to provide balance of payments and budget support, while measures
were being taken to improve other donors' capacity to implement effective development
programs and release aid disbursements. The ERC, complemented by the TA Project, was
a key component of that strategy. Furthermore, the comerstone of Cambodia's success in
reducing hyperinflation and establishing financial stabilization was the elimination of
monetary financing of the budget deficit. This was achieved through substantial inflows of
external budget support, of which the ERC was by far the largest source (60 percent).
24.   Bank performance regarding processing and supervision was satisfactory. The
ERC was processed faster than the ERP, and faster than the EAI departmental average
(70 weeks vs. 97 weeks). Bank supervision was carried out through ERC supervision
missions as well as joint World Bank/IME PFP monitoring missions. A total of 4 missions
took place over the relatively short period of ERC implementation (13 months), and there
was no turnover of Bank staff during preparation and implementation of the operation,
which provided the needed continuity in project supervision.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
25.   The ERC was successful in: (i) supporting the Government's efforts to stabilize the
economy and bringing about a solid growth rate during the program period; and (ii)
making available to the newly elected government the resources needed to bridge the fiscal
deficit and avoid monetary financing of that deficit. Macroeconomic performance in 1996
was broadly satisfactory. GDP growth for 1996 was about 6 percent, compared with the
targeted 7 percent, because of the adverse impact of floods on rice production. The rate
of inflation had remained under 10 percent in spite of upward pressure on food prices as a
result of the floods. The exchange rate had remained stable. Gross official reserves
amounted to 2.1 months of imports of goods and services, or 20 percent higher than the
estimate for 1995 when measured in dollar terms. Fiscal discipline and avoidance of
deficit financing through money creation remained the pillars of the Government's
stabilization efforts. Finally, the Government was able to increase public expenditures on
social programs, finance its counterpart contribution to donor-funded development
projects, and increase priority investments carried out without donor assistance.
26.   However, the ERC was also meant to buy the Borrower more time to implement
the measures needed to increase domestic revenues so as to reduce the country's
dependence on external budget support.  Unfortunately, 1996 fiscal developments
continued to show the same weakness as in the previous two years a revenue shortfall
compared with the budgeted target.  This led to drastic cuts in the operational
expenditures of the Cambodian administration, thereby delaying the improvement in public
services. To correct this situation, the Borrower will need to carry out a comprehensive
tax reform, improve the tax/duty collection effort, refrain from granting excessive tax



9
exemptions to foreign private investors, and ensure that all public revenues are routed
through the national budget.
27.   The program weaknesses notwithstanding, the overall outcome of the operation
was positive. The factors that contributed to the positive outcome were: (i) the simple
design and low conditionality of the operation; (ii) the govemment commitment to
implement the program; and (iii) the support provided by the companion TA Project.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
28.   The main condition for resuming preparation of an eventual follow-up SAC is for
the Govermnent to negotiate a new PFP with the Bank and the Fund. This also assumes
that the political situation is satisfactorily addressed. As part of the new program, the
Government will need to take steps to correct the weaknesses of the previous program,
namely, significantly improve revenue mobilization through tax reform and full collection
of revenue from logging and log export; and ensure the sustainability of development
through responsible forest management. The IDA Technical Assistance Project continues
to provide support to the Government in several of the areas likely to be covered under a
SAC, in particular tax reform and forest management. It could therefore play a role in
reviving preparation of the SAC.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
29.   An ERC is most effective when used as an intermediate step to a policy-based
structural adjustment operation The formal conditions of a SAC provides a better tool to
frame the Borrower's commitments. This is not to say that the ERC had no conditions of
disbursement. The postponement of Board presentation indicated that some conditionality
existed. During Board discussion of the operation, the Region in fact argued that the ERC
conditionality was put into effect even before the Credit was presented for Board
approval. Nevertheless, without a follow-up SAC, an ERC can be reduced to providing
easy budget support.
30.   An ERC is also most effective when accompanied by a Technical Assistance
Project. During Board discussion on the ERC, the Region successfully argued that a low-
conditionality ERC was preferable to a SAC due to the weak implementation capacity of
the Cambodian Govemment and the fragile nature of the coalition govemment. To
prepare for a follow-up SAC and help strengthen government capacity in key areas, the
Bank and the Borrower prepared a companion Technical Assistance Project. The TA
Project has played and continues to play a critical role in strengthening government
capacity for macroeconomic management. It has also helped pave the way for reform in
forest management, military demobilization, and private sector development by financing
studies.



10
31.   The link between the ERC and the IMF program, although weak, is extremely
useful. The dated benchmarks of the ESAF helped complement the broadly worded
covenants of the ERC. In that respect, the government implementation of the ESAF
program contributed to meeting the ERC objectives. But the reverse was also true: the
ERC played a critical role in helping the Government meet some of the quantitative
benchmarks of the ESAF program (namely, revenue targets and external reserves). When
the ERC disbursements stopped, the Government faced increasing difficulty in meeting
these benchmarks



11
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives     Substantial          Partial           Negligible       Not applicable
Macro policies                 F   7l 
Sector policies                     ]                                  El                     ]
Financial objectives             K                                     K                  E]
institutional development                           E                  El                 E 
Physical objectives                 l               E                     l              E
Poverty reduction                El                  I                  I  
Gender issues                    E                  E                  E                 [
Other social objectives          El                [                   E                 [
Enviromnental objectives         E                  E                  E                 [
Public sector management         E                                     E                 [II]
Private sector development       E                  El                 E                 [II
Other (BOP support)              K]                 E                  El                 E
B. Proiect sustainabilitv              Likely                  Unlikelv                 Uncertain
C. Bank performance              Highlv satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                                                                      [lii|
Preparation assistance            |                            I]
Appraisal
Supervision                       L                                                  [El
D. Borrower perfor ance          HizhIy satisfactor          Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation
Inplementation                                             [                        [K]
Covenant compliance               L                                                   El]
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome      Highlv satisfactorv    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   Hixhly unsatisfactory
E:l   El   El    ]



12
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                            Purpose            Approval    Status
Preceding operations
Emergency Rehabilitation Project   Emergency rehabilitation and  1993      Closed
budget support
Technical Assistance Project         Technical assistance in key  1994     Ongoing
reform areas
Following operations
None



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned          Date actual
Identification                               May 2, 1994           May 2, 1994
Preparation                                  May 2, 1994           May 2, 1994
Appraisal                                    October 1994         March 28, 1995
Negotiations                                December 1994         May 22, 1995
Board presentation                           February 1995      September 28, 1995
Signing                                       April 1995         October 11, 1995
Effectiveness                                 June 1995         December 18, 1995
Midterm review                                   n.a.                  n.a.
Project completion                           June 30, 1997       February 6, 1997
Loan closing                               October 31, 1997       June 30, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR million)
FY 1996           FY 1997
Appraisal estimate                     12.7               12.7
Actual                                 17.5                7.9
Actual as percent of estimate         137.8               62.2
Date of final disbursement                    February 6, 1997



14
Table 5-6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
(Policy Actions)
Key Implementation Indicators in President's  Estimated
Report
Policy Area            Measures                Target                 Actual
Budgetary     Initiate 1st phase of tax reform  1995        Ongoin, delays. New VAT system
Policy                                                     has been adopted. Implementation,
initialy scheduled for Jan. 1998,
will be delayed.
Enact harmonization of excise  1996          Completed. Approved in the
duty rates                                   Revised Financial Law for 1995
passed by National Assembly on
August 30, 1996.
Assign MEF Financial           July 1995     Completed. Financial controllers
Controllers to Ministry of                   had been assigned to all ministries
Defense, Education, Health, and              by July 1996.
Foreign Affairs to establish and
implement expenditure control
and procurement procedures.
Issue decree announcing        September     Completed. Decree signed July
competitive bidding for        1995          1995.
government projects and contracts
Foreign Debt   Reschedule debt and strengthen    Ongoing   Done. Paris Club rescheduling took
Policy        debt management. Prepare for                 place.
Paris Club debt rescheduling.
Establish Debt Management Unit  From Sept.    Completed in 1996
in MEF                         1995
Non-accumulation of new        Throughout   Observed.
external payments arrears.    the program
Public        Prepare a master plan for      July 1995     Done. Irnplementation of the
Investment    National Public Investment                   NPIMS was announced at the July
Program       Management System (NPIMS)                     1996 CG Meeting.
Establish a system of regular  December      Completed, November 1996.
reporting and monitoring of    1995
foreign investment
PE Reform     Adopt a regulatory framework for  July 1995   Completed.
and           PEs
Privatization
Offer the trading company     December       Partially completed. Sale of CKC
KAMPEXIM, and the petroleum    1995         to private firm SOKIMEX
distribution company, CKC, for               approved by Council of Ministers;
sale                                        proposal under consideration for
KAMPEXIM.



15
Announce timetable for        December       Completed. List approved by the
privatization of additional PEs  1995        Council of Ministers on July 1,
during 1995, and finalize the list           1996.
of firms to be pnvatized by end-
September.
Administrative  Prepare a strategy and several  by March    Completed. The study was
Reform        options to help reduce the number  1996      completed in April and presented in
of civil servants by 20 % by                 May 1996.
1997.
Implement departure scheme.   by end-1997   Not observed.
Military       Prepare a Cambodian Veterans    by end-1997   Completed. The study was
Demobilization  Assistance Program (CVAP) to                completed in April 1996 and
be submitted to donors for                   presented in May 1996.
assistance.
Table 5-6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
(Project Management)
Key Implementation Indicators in President's    Estimated             Actual
Report                        target
Establish and maintain Project Management Unit   By Board date          Done.
and
throughout
project life.
II. Other Indicators
Not applicable.



16
Table 7: Studies Under the Project
Study           Purpose as defined at      Status              Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
Public Investment  Prepare a master plan for  Completed    CDC, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Program           National Public Investment               Planning, and Line Ministry now have
System                                   a framework within which to prepare
PIP and set priorities
PE Reform         Adopt a regulatory         Completed     Enterprises that remain in public
framework for PEs                        domain now have a set of basic rules
by which they must be governed.
Private Sector    Studies for privatization of   Completed  The studies facilitated the privatization
Development       KAMPEXIM and CKC                         of these public companies.
Civil Service     Prepare a strategy and     Completed     However, the Government did not
Reform            several options to reduce the            implement the recommendations of the
number of civil servants                 study. The reduction targets were not
met.
Military          Prepare a Cambodian        Completed     However, implementation of the CVAP
Demobilization    Veterans Assistance Program              has yet to start, mamily due to donor
(CVAP) to be submitted to                withdrawal following July 1997 events.
donors for assistance.
Forest            Prepare a revised forest   Completed,    Should help manage forest resources.
Management        management code            with delays    However, to be effective this code must
wait for the results of four ongomg
forest management studies.
Prepare four forestry studies  Ongoing;
to help m concession       international
management, policy reform,   consultants
and logging control and log   are carrying
export monitoring         out the studies



17
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            Actual estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                  Local      Foreign
Source          costs       costs       Total        costs       costs      Total
IDA                                40          40                       40         40
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            Actual estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                  Local      Foreign
Source          costs        costs      Total        costs       costs      Total
IDA                                40          40                       40         40
SIDA                               5.5         5.5                     5.5         5.5
Total                             45.5        45.5                     45.5       45.5
Note: Figures are rounded.



18
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Cove-             Original   Revised       Description
nant   Present   fulfill-     fulfill-         of
Agreement    Section      type    status     ment        ment         covenant          Comments
date       date
DCA for       3 02        1        C       October                Maintenance of   PMU established
ERP dated                                  11,1995                PMU withn MEF       under earlier
November                                                           with necessary     project. Took
5, 1993                                                          staffing, functions  over ERC
and resources and  responsibilities on
charge PMU with   effectiveness of
overall      the project. PMU
supervision of    provided monthly
project          reports of
implementation    implementation
activities
throughout project
period until June
30, 1997
DCA for       3.04        1        C       June 30,              Maintenance of    Annual Audit
ERP dated                                    1996                 records and       reports received
November                                                          accounts. Audits   on June 30, 1996
5, 1993                                                         of records and     and June 30, 1997
accounts
Table 11: Compliance with Operations Manual Statements
No significant variance with the Operations Manual Statements based on documents in the
project file.



19
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned                  Revised                   Actual
project cycle         Weeks    US$ (000)       Weeks   US$ (000)        Weeks    US$ (000)
Through Appraisal            0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        14.7         51.2
Appraisal - Board            2.5         12.5          1.9         5.7         5.9        36.0
Supervision                 18.5         41.3         23.2        55.3        16.6        45.5
Completion                   9.5         29.0          9.5        29.0         9.5        29.0
TOTAL                 30.5         82.8         34.6        90.0        46.7       161.7



20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Specialized
Number   Days        staff    Implemen-   Develop-    Types
Stage of         Month/        of       in        skills      tation       ment         of
project cycle        year      persons   field   represented    status    objectives  problems
Through Appraisal    July 1994      3         8       E, LEG
Appraisal through   Nov. 1994       3        8       E, LEG
Board approval
Board approval         -           -        -
through effectiveness
Supervision       Feb. 1996      3        3         E, A         HS          HS
July 1996      1        3         E            S           S
Nov. 1996      1        3          E            S           S
Completion        Feb. 1997      1        5          E
1. Specialization                 2. Performance Rating                 3. Types of Problems
E   = Economist                   HS = Highly satisfactory              F = Financial
A   = Administration              S = Satisfactory                      T = Technical
U = Unsatisfactory                   M = Managerial



21
Appendix A
CAMBODIA
Project Completion Mission under Cr. 2781-KH
A Bank mission visited Cambodia in February 1997 and again in October 1997 to
help prepare the project for closing. A number of Cambodian Government officials were
interviewed during that last visit. They gave their opinions on the project and the services
it rendered. Their observations are contained in this report. The missions left no formal
Aide-Memoire. Instead a first draft of this ICR was prepared and given to the
Government for comments. The Government also conducted a separate evaluation of the
project and provided a copy of the evaluation report to the Bank. This report is included
as Appendix B.



22
Appendix B
CAMBODIA
GOVERNMENT'S EVALUATION REPORT OF CREDIT 2781-KH
Submitted as a Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report
The Economic Recovery Credit (IDA 2781-KH) was used by the Royal
Government of Cambodia in the National Budget with an amount of USD 40 million
(equivalent to Riel 95 billion) to achieve economic stabilization and systematic reform in
Cambodia during October 1995 to January 1997.
In addition to this credit, on February 15, 1996, the Royal Government of
Cambodia signed with the Government of Sweden an agreement on balance of payments
support in the amount of SEK 40 million (equivalent to USD 6 million) as a grant to
support the ongoing economic rehabilitation program in Cambodia. This amount was
disbursed by the World Bank.
These funds have constituted a non-qualified budget support, not bound to any
specific project However, they contributed to the overall internal and external revenues
of the Government to cover the budget expenditures.
During the first year of the public finance reforms (1994-96), the budget support
disbursed by the World Bank was used for:
*  balancing the current budget deficit which stood at -1.3%, -0.82% and -1,26%
respectively of GDP during the three years;
*  strengthening the public investments under this budget for: construction and
completion for rehabilitation of the runways at Pochentong, Siem Reap and
Battambang airports, renovation of roads and bridges in the provinces, and
especially the construction of the "Bailey" bridges, construction and
rehabilitation of school and hospital buildings located in the provinces, drilling
of water wells in the provinces, renewal of equipment and materials, especially
equipment for the rehabilitation of the National Roads and equipment for
telecommunications;
*  Allowing the Royal Government to cover its responsibilities for financing local
costs for investment linked to direct foreign aid, as the counterpart funds,
particularly for the World Bank and Asian Development Bank projects;
* facilitating the depreciation of the internal debt; and



23
* helping the Royal Government to achieve some ESAF criteria "benchmarks"
with IMF, especially the net foreign reserves increase by 49% and budgetary
revenues by 6 5% in 1996 in comparison with 1995 year
For the year of 1996, the ERC and Swedish funds (around USD 46 million)
contributed to:
*  finance 50 % of annual budgetary support;
*  cover 72 % of current budgetary deficit,
*  finance 120 % of public investments for the local financing through the local
expenses of investments financed by foreign aid.
Therefore, the ERC fund with the support of ESAF-IMF played an important role,
in order to consolidate macro-economic balance, assistance of monetary financing of the
budget, keeping inflation at low levels, stabilization of USD/Riel parity and for promoting
the growth and the development for long term and sound economic fundamentals.
Similarly, the ERC funds have allowed to initiate slightly, but efficiently the
readjustment of priorities for the public expenditures, by focusing on the social sector,
particularly health, increasing in comparison with GDP, from 0.36% in 1995 to 0.52% in
1996. It is estimated to reach 1% of the GDP in the year 2000.
Furthermore, due to ERC availability, budget expenditures could be assured for
the health sector at the district level to fight against major diseases and for ensuring the
supply of drugs and the campaign for basic health.



