Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2781 KH
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Rehabilitation Credit)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 11, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2781 KH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 1995, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS: (A) The Association has received a letter dated May 19, 1995, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
economic stabilization and systemic reforms in the Borrower's economy (hereinafter 
called the "Program"), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently 
needed imports required during such execution; and
WHEREAS: (B) On the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has 
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the Credit as hereinafter provided.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.";
Page  2
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.";
(c)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(d)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Category" means the category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year;
(c)
"MEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance; and
 
(d)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established by the Borrower 
within the MEF, pursuant to the MEF's Decision No. 289 (Prakas), dated November 28, 
1994, as supplemented by the MEF's Decision No. 843 (Prakas), dated May 26, 1995. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date, or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  3
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2005 and ending June 15, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2015, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred ninety dollars ($790) 
in constant 1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent 
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, until the entire proceeds of the Credit shall 
have been disbursed: (i) maintain the PMU within the MEF with the necessary staffing, 
functions and resources, and charge it with the responsibility for the overall 
supervision of Project implementation; (ii) ensure that the PMU is headed by a 
qualified Project Director acceptable to
the Association, and is staffed by qualified personnel in adequate numbers; and (iii) 
promptly provide all funds, facilities, services and other resources required to 
enable the PMU to duly carry out all its functions and responsibilities.
Page  4
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:  
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, 
or customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  5
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
92nd. Street
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Telex:
(583) 17770101 (CMPP)
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Keat Chhon
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods required during the execution of the Program, and to be financed out of such 
proceeds, in accordance with the allocation of the Credit to the following Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items to be financed under said Category.
                                     Amount of
Page  6
                                     Credit              % of
                                    Allocated       Expenditures
                                 (Expressed in         to be
          Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
          Pre-Identified           25,400,000       100% of Foreign
          Imports                                   Expenditures
          TOTAL                    25,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "Foreign Expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
The term "Pre-Identified Imports" means the following categories of 
goods: agricultural equipment and supplies; agricultural seeds, fertilizers and 
pesticides; building and construction equipment; building and construction materials; 
cargo handling equipment and vehicles for all modes of transportation; communication 
and telecommunication equipment; drilling equipment and supplies; essential foods and 
beverages; industrial equipment and machinery; intermediate goods for manufacture; 
laboratory equipment and supplies; manufactured goods; medical equipment and supplies; 
medical products, including drugs; mining equipment and supplies; office equipment and 
supplies; petroleum products; power distribution equipment and supplies; power 
generation equipment and supplies; printed materials; printing equipment, raw 
materials and supplies; raw materials for manufacture; storage equipment; tools; 
transportation vehicles; water supply equipment and supplies; spare parts in respect 
of the foregoing equipment, goods and vehicles; and such other imported goods 
necessary for rehabilitation and other similar productive activities, as shall have 
been previously approved in writing by the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (i) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed five million 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,100,000), may be made in respect of 
the Category on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1995; and (ii) expenditures 
for goods procured under contracts costing less than the equivalent of fifty thousand 
dollars ($50,000).
4.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of three million dollars ($3,000,000) may 
be required by the Association upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement of Goods
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank 
in January 1995 (the "Guidelines") and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Goods estimated to cost less than three million dollars equivalent ($3,000,000) 
per contract may be procured: 
Page  7
1.
By purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement procedures 
for the importation of goods, under contracts awarded in accordance with such 
procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the 
Association; and
2.
By other purchasers:
 
(a)
Under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or 
(b)
In the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, under 
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Prior Review: With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than three 
million dollars equivalent ($3,000,000), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review: With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
