                                      Documentof
                                    TheWorld Bank


                            FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                                        ReportNo. 28650-BR


                              INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR

                     RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                  PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                     FORA PROPOSED


                   FIRST PROGRAMMATICREFORMLOANFOR
                         ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY


                      INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$505.05MILLION

                                            TO THE

                         FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOFBRAZIL




                                         July 26,2004




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of
 their officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                Currency Unit = Real

               EXCHANGERATE
        December 31,2001 - R$2.65 = US$ 1
        December 31,2002 - R$3.52 = US$ 1
        December 31,2003 - R$2.90 = US$ 1

         WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                   Metric System

                 FISCALYEAR
               January 1- December 31




Vice President:           David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Vinod Thomas
Lead Economist:           Joachim von Amsberg
Sector Director:          John Redwood
Sector Manager:           Abel Mejia
Task Manager:             Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo

                                                                         FOROFFICLAL,USEONLY
                               ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

          AAE        Avaliaylo Ambiental EstratCgica                             Strategic Environmental Assessment
          ANA        &encia Nacional de Aguas                                    NationalWater Agency
          ANEEL      Aghcia Nacionalde EnergiaElCtrica                           National Electric Energy Agency
          APP        k e a de Proteylo Permanente     ,                          PermanentProtected Areas
          BNDES      Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econamico e Social        National Bank for Economic andSocial Development
          BOD        Demanda Bioquimicade Oxigenio                               BiochemicalOxygen Demand
          BR-163     Rodovia Federalque liga Cuiabi a Santadm                    Federal highway that connects CuiabA to SantarCm
          CAS        Estrattgia de Assistsncia para o Pais                       Country Assistance Strategy
          CDM        Mecanismo de Desenvolvimento Limpo                          Clean Development Mechanism
          CITES      ConvenyBo sobre o comtrcio intemacional das esp4cies da     Convention on Intemational Trade in Endangered
                     fauna e da flora selvagens ameayadas de extinylo            Species of Wild Faunaand Flora
          CNRH       Conselho Nacional de RecursosHidricos                       National Water Resources Council
          CONAFLOR   Comisslo Coordenadora do Programa Nacional de Florestas     Coordination Committee of the National Forest Program
          CONAMA     Conselho Nacional de Meio Ambiente                          National Environmental Council
          CONASQ     ComissHoNacional de Seguranya Quimica                       National Chemical Security Commission
          c 0 2      Gis CarbGnico                                               Carbonic Gas
          EC         Emenda B Constituiylo                                       Amendment to the Federal Constitution
          EMBI       hdice de Titulos da Divida de Mercados Emergentes           Emerging Markets Bond Index
          E.MBRAPA   Empresa Brasileirade PesquisaAgropecufia                    Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
          EMS        SISNAMA - Sistema Nacional do Meio Ambiente                 Environmental Management System
          EnvPRL     Emprtstimo de Reforma Programitica para o Programa de       Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental
                     Sustentabilidade Ambiental                                  Sustainability Program
          EPE        Empresa de PesquisaEnergttica                               Energy ResearchCompany
          F A 0      OrganizaG2o das Naydes Unidas para Agricultura e            Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Kations
                     AlimentayHo
          FDl        Investimento Estrangeiro Direto                             Foreign Direct Investment
          FNMA       Fundaygo Nacional de Meio Ambiente                          National Environmental Fund
          GDP        Produto Intemo Bruto                                        Gross Domestic Product
          GEF        Fundo Global para o Meio Ambiente                            Global Environmental Facility Program
          GMO        Organismos Geneticamente Modificados                         Genetic Modified Organisms
          GOB        Govemo do Brasil                                             Govemment of Brazil
          IBAMA      lnstituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos RecursosNaturais Brazilian Institute for Environment and Renewable
                     Renoviveis                                                   Natural Resources
          ICMS       lmposto sobre CirculaCBode Mercadorias e Services            State Sales Tax
          INPE       lnstituto Nacional de PesquisasEspaciais                     National Space Research Institute
          IOF        Imposto sobre Operayks Financeiras                           Tax on Financial Transactions
          P E A      lnstituto de PesquisaEconBmica Aplicada                      Institute for Applied Economic Research
          MDGs       Metas de Desenvolvimento do Milenio                          Millennium Development Goals
          MDG I      Meta de Desenvolvimento do MilCnio No1 - "Erradicar a        Millennium Development Goal #1 - "Eradicate Extreme
                     extrema pobreza e a fome"                                    Poveny and Hunger"
          MDG 4      Meta de Desenvolvimento do Milenio No4 - "Reduzir a          Millennium Development Goal #4 - "Reduce Child
                     mortalidade infantil"                                        Mortality"
          MDG 7      Mrta de Desenvolvimento do Milenio No7 - "Garantir a         Millennium Development Goal #7 - "Ensure
                     sustentabilidade ambiental"                                  Environmental Sustainability"
          M M A      Ministtrio do Meio Ambiente                                  Ministry of Environment
          MIME       Ministtrio de Minas e Energia                                Ministry of hiining and Energy
          MP         Minirttrio Publico                                           Public Prosecutor's Office
          M T        Ministtrio do Turismo                                        Ministry of Tourism
          NGOF       Organizaydes NBo Govemamentais                               Non-Gowrmnental Organizations
          OECD       Organizay5o para CooperaGZo EconBmica e Desenvolvimento Organization for Economic Co-operation and
                                                                                  Development
          OEMA       OrgHos Estaduais de Meio Ambiente                            State Environmental Agencies
          P2R2       Produtos Quimicos Perigosos                                  Hazardous Chemical Products
          PAS        Plano AmazBnia Sustentivel                                   Sustainable Amazon Plan
          PCF        Fundo de Prot6tipo de Carbono                                Prototype Carbon Fund
          PNF        Programa Nacional de Florestas                               National Forestry Program
          PNRH       Plano Nacional de Recursos Hidricos                          Water ResourcesNational Plan
          PPA        Plano Plurianual                                             Multi-Year Plan
          PRL        Einprestimode Reforma Programbtica                           Programmatic Reform Loan
          PROAGUA    ProsguaiSemi-brido                                           Federal Water Resources Management Project
          PROCEL      Programa de Combate ao Desperdicio de Energia ElCtrica      National Program to Combat Electrical
                                                                                  Energy Waste

This document has a restricteddistribution and may be
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherm7isedisclosed
without World Bank authorization.

PRODES                Programa de DespoluiqBo de Bacias Hidrogrlficas            Water Basins RestorationProgram
PROINFA               Programa de Incentivo i s Fontes Altemativas de Energia    Brazilian Renewable Energy IncentiveProgram
                      Elktrica
RFPP                  Programa Piloto para a ProtepBodas Florestas Tropicais do  Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest
                      Brasil
RL                    Reserva Legal                                              Legal Reserves
SEA                   AvaliapBo Ambiental Estratkgica                            Strategic EnvironmentalAssessment
SAL                   Emprtstimo de Ajuste Estrutural                            Structural Adjustment Loan
SELIC                 Sistema Especial de LiquidapBo e de Custddia               Clearance and Trustee System
SINGERH               Sistema Nacional de Gerenciamento de RecursosHidricos      National Water Resource Management System
S I P A M I S I V A M Sistema de ProtepBo da Amazbnia / Sistema de Vigillncia da Amazon Protection System / Amazon Surveillance
                      Amazbnia                                                   System
SISNAMA               Sistema Nacional do Meio Ambiente                          National Environment System
SNUC                  Sistema Nacional de Unidades de ConservapBo da Natureza    National System of ConservationUnits
SRH                   Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos                            Water Resources Secretariat
SWAP                  Instrumento de Abordagem Setorial                          Sector-Wide Approach
TAC                   Termo de Ajustamento de Conduta                            Conduct Adjustment Agreement
T A L                 Emprkstimo de Assistencia Tkcnica                          Technical Assistance Loan
TC                    Comite Tkcnico                                             Technical Committee
TFP                   Produtividade Total dos Fatores                            Total Factor Productivity
UNDP                  Programa das NapBes Unidas para o Desenvolvimento          United Nations Development Program
W G                   Grupo de Trabalho                                          Working Group
WWF                   Fundo Mundial para a Natureza                              World Wildlife Fund
ZEE                   Zoneamento Ecoldgico Econbmico                             Environmental-Economic Zoning

                                                   BRAZIL

           FIRSTPROGRAMMATICREFORMLOANFOR
                  ENVIRONMENTALSUSTAINABILITY


                                        Table of Contents

LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY             .............................................................................................
                                                       ............................................................................         i
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                                                                                                          iv
1   Introduction                                                                                                                            1
2
..                ...............................................................................................................
                                                                                    ..................................................
    B. Economic Growth. Poverty Reduction andEnvironmental Sustainability ...........7
    A. RecentEconomic Developments..........................................................................
    The EconomyandEnvironmentalSustainability                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                            3

3.  EnvironmentinBrazil
    A. MainEnvironmental Issues ................................................................................
                                    ............................................................................................          11
                                                                                                                                          11
    B. EnvironmentalManagementinBrazil................................................................
    D Government Program-EnvironmentalReformAgenda (PPA2004-2007)........21
    C. Major Recent Advances ......................................................................................                       14

      .                                                                                                                                   25
    E. FutureImprovements to Environmental Policy..................................................                                       30
4.  The ProgrammaticFrameworkandthe ProposedLoanProgram
    A. Objectives. Structure andJustification ...............................................................        .................... 34
                                                                                                                                          34
    B. ProgramContent andDesign..............................................................................                             35
                                                                                                                                          40
    D Designof the ProposedFirstLoan.....................................................................
    C. Analytical Underpinnings ...................................................................................
      .
    E. LoanAmount. Conditions. andArrangements....................................................                                        40
                                                                                                                                          50
5.  Linksto the CASandother BankGroup Operations                                            .........................................
    A. Linkto the Country Assistance Strategy 2004-2007..........................................                                         51
                                                                                                                                          51
    B. Complementarity with Other Operations............................................................
    C. Review andLessons Learnedfrom Other Operations........................................                                             53
                                                                                                                                          56
6.  RisksandRiskMitigation                ......................................................................................          57

    B. RiskAssessment andMitigation.........................................................................
    A. Risks.................................................................................................................... 57
                                                                                                                                           58

Annexes

Annex I: Letter of Development Policy .
            Letter of Development Policy.
Annex II: Policy Matrix ...........................................................................................
                                                                  English version .Translated ................89
                                                                  Portuguese version .Original .............. 63

                                                                                                                                          116
Annex 111:  The Matrix of the Government Program.................................................                                         122
Annex IV:   ProtectedAreas ........................................................................................
Annex V:    Recent Trends inthe Deforestation of the BrazilianAmazon                                                   .................143
                                                                                                                                          145
Annex VI:   Environmental Responsibilities by Level of Government.......................                                                  151
Annex VII:  Environmental Licensing inBrazil..........................................................                                    152
Annex VIII: Federal Public Expenditures inBrazil.....................................................                                     158

  Annex E: Programsof the Ministry of Environment for 2004-2007.......................                                         159
  Annex X:          List of Bank's Analytical Work           ...............................................................   165
  Annex XI:         IFC'S Environmental Activities inBrazil                   ...............................................  168
  Annex XII:                                                                                                                   171
  Annex XIII: Statementof Loans and Credits...............................................................
                    IMFNote ................................................................................................
                                                                                                                               173
  Annex XIV: Brazil Statementof IFC HeldandDisbursedPortfolio                                      ........................... 175
  Annex XV:         Country at a Glance.................................................................................       177




This ProgramDocument wasjointly preparedby LuizGabriel Azevedo, SergioMargulis, Gar0Batmanian,Dorte
Verner, Josef Leitmann, Mark Thomas, Maria ValBria Pena, ZezB Weiss, JosB Augusto Carvalho, Fldvio Chaves
and JulianaGarrido under the supervisionof Abel Mejiaand Joachimvon Amsberg. Consultantswere Luiz
Noronha, Alexandre Fortesand Christoph Diewald. Comments and inputs were provided by Todd Crawford, Jan.
P. Bojo, Guillermo Perry, Mauricio Carrizosa, HaroldBedoya, Adriana Moreira, LilianPena, Gregor Wolf, Robert
Schneider,Daniel Gross, Dan Biller, John Redwood, KennethChomitz, Lisa da Silva, Angela Furtado and Mauro
Azeredo, Ernest0Sanchez-Triana,MartinGambrill, KulsumAhmed, Mary C. Sheehan, Regis Cunningham. Peer
reviewers were Paulo Guilherme Correa and Aziz Bouzaher.The team is grateful to TatianaTeles, Greicy Amjadi,
Cristina Roriz, and Lilian Santos for logistics and support.

                                       BRAZIL

              FIRSTPROGRAMMATICREFORMLOANFOR
                 ENVIRONMENTALSUSTAINABILITY




                 LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY

Borrower:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing      Ministry of Finance andMinistryof Environment
Agency:
Poverty Category: Not Applicable
Amount:           US$ 505.05 million (single tranche)
Terms:            Fixed-spread loan inU S dollars, with a repayment period of 17 years
                  including five years of grace.
Commitment Fee:   0.85 percent per annum duringthe first four years and 0.75 percent per
                  annum thereafter on undisbursed loan amounts, beginning to accrue sixty
                  days after the loan agreement i s signed.
Front-EndFee      1percent of the loan amount, to be financed under the loan.
Objective:        The principal objective of the proposedprogram i s to support Brazil's
                  goal of balancing economic growth with social development and the
                  maintenance and improvement of environmental quality. Inline with the
                  CAS, the programwould contribute to the objective of a more sustainable
                  Brazil to reduce poverty and achieve a higher quality of life for all
                  Brazilians inboth rural and urban areas. A sustainable Brazil will also be
                  a source of competitiveness and provide wealth for the future. The
                  proposed loan forms a significant part of the Bank's overall assistance
                  strategy to an innovative, committed, and high-performing client.
Description:      The proposed loan will support environmental sustainability through
                  policy reforms focusing on two major areas: (i) increasingthe
                  effectiveness and the efficiency o f the environmental management
                  system; and (ii)mainstreaming environmental sustainability in selected
                  sector policies and programs. This loan would be the first operation in a
                  series of up to three loans over a four-year period, possibly totaling US$
                  1.2billion. The proposed operation does not involve additional spending
                  and focuses on policy and institutional changes that should leadto more
                  effective and efficient environmental management. A companion
                  Technical Assistance Loan of up to US$ 10million i s plannedto follow
                  this operation. The program is expected to result inthe improvement of

            environmental conditions inthe medium and long term.
            The set of policy and institutional reforms supported by the proposed loan
            include: (a)increasing the transparency and social control of the
            environmental management system (EMS); (b)improving the
            effectiveness of the EMS through better coordination and clearer
            definition of responsibilities among the three levels of government; (c)
            increasing the use of economic instruments as compared to command-
            and-controlmechanisms; (4promoting sustainable development inthe
            Amazon and the protection of other key ecosystems; (e) improving water
            resources management through increased decentralization, improved local
            management and increased financial autonomy; and         promoting the
            upstream inclusion of environmental sustainability concerns in sector
            policies and programs, as well as inthe planning and implementation of
            major development projects.
Benefits    The short-term benefits of the project include a more effective and
            responsive environmental management system, which will improve the
            business environment inthe country. It will also signal to society as a
            whole GOB'S serious commitment to the long-term environmental
            sustainability of its development path. The loan will contribute to the
            establishment of a framework for dialogue and improved collaboration on
            environmental sustainability among key sectors inthe Government, as
            well as the private sector andcivil society. The loan also reduces external
            vulnerability b y covering part of Brazil's external financing requirements
            and bolstering net international reserves. The loan i s proposedon the
            basis of a continuous and sound management of the macro economy
            which i s assessedas part of the ongoing dialogue and review.
            The project's longer-termbenefits entail welfare gains associated with
            improved environmental conditions inthe country, which should in
            principle accrue proportionally more to poorer populations. If
            successfully implemented, the policies supported by the loan will
            contribute to: improving Brazil's environmental management system;
            while increasingthe sustainable management of water resources, forests
            and biodiversity; strengthening the capacity to respond to environmental
            emergencies; and incorporating of environmental concerns inthe
            planning and implementation of major development projects
            (mainstreaming), among others. This will result inimproved
            environmental quality, which will inturn foster sustainable growth and
            economic development.
            The companion technical assistance loan (TAL) will contribute to
            buildingthe knowledge base requiredfor the advancement of the reform
            agenda and to improving the Government's capacity to both monitor
            environmental indicators and manage the implementation of priority
            programs for results.
Risks       The proposed loan i s the Bank's first programmatic reform loan package
            inBrazilto support environmental sustainability strictly through policy


                                    ..
                                    11

                reforms. For this reason, the more concrete impacts of the project and
                program interms of improved environmental conditions, which are
                naturally its ultimate objective, require a longer period to materialize. Its
                impacts should therefore not be assessed based on short-term changes in
                environmental conditions, but in terms of policy reforms and institutional
                conditions leading to them.
                The risk of failure i s higher for a novel operation simply because there i s
                less past experience to draw from, and thus a higher degree o f
                uncertainty. The following risks have been identified: (a)the
                environmental reform agenda i s not carried out adequately, i.e. not inthe
                agreed scope or within the expected timeframe; and/or (b)reforms are
                carried out as agreed, but do not have the desired impacts interms of the
                behavioral changes of economic agents, environmental quality and
                natural resource conservation. The latter i s more technical innature and
                depends on the complex links between environmental policies and
                outcomes. This i s an important risk inlight o f the complexity of
                environmental effects, but it i s an issue faced b y all countries and requires
                continued attention.
                The possibility o f the reform agenda not being carried out as plannedi s
                considered a highrisk.This i s primarily because of macroeconomic,
                coordination and institutional risks. First, the economy remains
                vulnerable to external shocks and social and political pressures that could
                dilute the Government's focus on the sustainability agenda; second,lack
                of coordination among the key stakeholders could affect program
                implementation; third, discussions on future reforms and the approval
                process by the Congress could take longer than estimated;fourth, a
                change inleadership inindividual ministries could lead to a delay inthe
                implementation of the reforms; andfifth, vested interests could oppose
                and delay the implementation of key elements of the reform agenda .
                These risks have been explicitly recognizedand have been partly
                mitigated by: (i)complementary operations; (ii)the proposedtechnical
                assistance loan; (iii) transparent and participatory preparation; (iv)
                upstream consultation with civil society; (v)strong Government
                ownership; (vi)due diligence; (vii) realistic expectations; and (viii) a
                programmatic framework that i s flexible. All things considered, the
                program's overall risk i s high. On the other hand, if it i s successful, the
                potential returns would be far higher, and hence the strongjustification
                for the proposed operation.
FinancingPlan   Single tranche disbursed after effectiveness
NetPresentValue Not Applicable
ProjectIDNumber PE-P080829-LEN-BB




                                          ...
                                          111

                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


1.     This documentproposesa FirstProgrammatic ReformLoanfor
Environmental Sustainability of US$505.05 million to the Federative Republic of
Brazil. This loan would be the first ina series of up to three loans over a four-year
period, possibly totaling US$ 1.2 billion, and support key measures within a broader
government program for the reform of environmental management. The loan would be
accompanied by a separate Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) o f up to US$ 10million.
The strategic objective of the program i s the consolidation of the process to revitalize
environmental policy inBrazil. The expected outcome of the program over the course o f
four years would include significant improvements inthe environmental management
system and a reversal in a few selected but critical environmental trends. The program
and proposedloan provide direct support for sustainability, which together with equity
and competitiveness, i s one of the three pillars of the 2004-2007 CAS and o f the
Government's own strategy.

Objectiveandjustification

2.     The principal objective of the proposedprogramis to support Brazil's goal
of balancing economic growth with socio development and the maintenance and
improvement of environmental quality. Inline with the CAS, the program would
contribute to the objective of a more sustainable Brazil, to reduce poverty and achieve a
higher quality of life for all Brazilians inbothrural and urban areas. A healthy natural
and physical environment provides basic services inboth urban and rural areas ina
sustainable and efficient way (MDG7). It will buildon the country's comparative
advantage in natural resources while also conserving them. A sustainable Brazil will also
be a source of competitiveness and provide wealth for the future.

3.      The proposedprogrammatic policy-basedloans would complement existing
programmatic approachesinvolving bothinvestment and capacity buildinginsuch key
priority areas as: public sector environmental management at the national and sub-
national levels (NEP II), conservation and micro-basin management inthe south and
                           soil
southeast, water resource management inthe northeast, biodiversity conservation and
forest management inthe Amazon (PPG7, ARPA, PROARCO, etc.), and urban sanitation
improvements, etc., with which the Bank and GOB'Sother partners (IDB, KfW, USAID,
IFC, WWF, etc.) have been closely involved over the past two decades. Together, this
unique combination of adjustment, investment, and institutional strengthening lending
represents one of the most -- if not the most -- complete and comprehensive "packages"
of Bank support to environmental improvement and sustainable development anywhere
inthe world.

4.      The loan would build on recent analytical work. The program rests on a solid
foundation, stemming from a body of analytical work carried out b y the GOB, the Bank,
bilateral institutions (KfW,USAID, DFID, etc.), the IDB, Brazilian and international
researchers, and NGOs (e.g. IMAZON, PAM, ISA, SOS Mata Atliintica, WWF, CI,



                                            iv

TNC, etc.) over the past two decades. The results of much of this work have been used
and summarized inthe Policy Notes prepared by the Bank for the current administration'.
Economic and sector work has focused primarily on the following topics: (i)the
sustainable development of the Amazon, including forest management; (ii)causes and
dynamics o f deforestation; (iii)water resources management; (iv) urban water supply
and sewerage issues and their health impacts on the poor; and (v) urban air and water
pollution issues and their impact on the poor.

5.        The Government has requestedan adjustment operation from the Bank to
support its environmental sustainability programand to mainstream environmental
objectives more firmly inits broader development agenda. This choice for a
programmatic policy-basedoperation follows the recently completed CAS, which
indicates that "policy-based (or adjustment) lending aims to galvanize and support policy
reforms. Experience shows that programmatic adjustment lending, which shifts the
emphasis to lending inresponse to reforms already enacted rather than conditioning loan
disbursements on predefinedgovernment actions, increases countries' commitment to
reforms. Brazil's external vulnerability makes the flexibility of programmatic lending
especially advantageous. Given the Bank's small financial role, such programs require a
strong lead from the Government."

6.        Brazil has usedthe programmatic framework successfully inthe recent past,
with two loans each made under the Fiscal ReformProgrammatic Structural Adjustment
Loan series and the Financial Sector Programmatic Structural Adjustment series. More
recently (June 2003), a programmatic loan series inthe area of human development
policies, and a loan series focusing on sustainable and equitable growth (January 2004)
were launched. The currently proposedoperation focusing on environmental
sustainability would lead to one broad program of policy-based lending in each of the
CAS thematic areas.

7.        The proposedloan forms a significant part of the Bank's overall assistance
strategy to an innovative, committed, and high-performing client. Inrecent years
Brazil has cemented a development strategy that combines reinforcing the disciplined
approach to macroeconomic management, establishing best-practice social programs
targeted at the poor, consolidating progress inhealth and education, tackling
microeconomic reforms to ignite growth, and buildingthe institutional bases for
environmental sustainability. The proposedloan should therefore be seen inthe wider
context of support to a coherent development strategy inLatin America's largest
economy.

The Government'sapproach

8.        There are indications that the Government will grasp the opportunity to
focus on the sustainability agenda, butalso concernsthat the opportunity may pass,
and that environmental indicators may deteriorate. Lagging behind on the

 Brazil Equitable- Competitive - Sustainable - Contributions for Debate, prepared in 2002 and published in2003. Of
special relevance for the EnvPRL are chapters 8,9, 10and 11.



                                                      V

sustainability pillar could have a significant impact on Brazil's overall development
agenda. The proposedoperation i s intended to consolidate the emerging trend toward a
stronger focus on sustainability and support the Government's efforts to avoid
backsliding. The current administration team has already made some clear commitments
to implement a model of sustainable development, maintaining and furthering existing
initiatives and pursuingnecessary advances inthe country's environmental management
system (EMS). Continuedprogress has been observed inthe management of water
resources, in creating a more concerted effort to address the problem of deforestation in
the Amazon, inpromoting a dialogue with sector ministries and other levels of
government, and involving civil society inreviewing instruments, norms, and regulations
invarious fields.

9.       The proposed programmatic operation recognizes the Federal
Administration's renewed commitment to address the major environmental
problems and challenges facing Brazil, mainstreaming the environment by
synchronizing environmental objectives with the government's broader development
objectives. Also, the proposed operation endorses the recent evolution of the EMS and
the Federal Administration's vision for its longer-termreform.

10.      The proposed operation does not involve additional spending and focuses on
policy and institutional changes that should ultimately lead to a more efficient and
effective environmental management. If successfully implemented, the loan will
contribute to: improving Brazil's environmental management system; increasing the
sustainable management o f water resources, forests andbiodiversity; increasing capacity
to respond to environmental emergencies; and increasingthe incorporation of
environmental concerns inthe planning and implementation o f major development
projects (mainstreaming), among others. This will result inimproved environmental
quality to foster sustainable growth andeconomic development. The supported reforms
are entirely in line with what the Bank also considers key improvements inthe country's
environmental management system. This should come as no surprise, given the excellent
long-lasting relationship between the Bank and the Government inthe environmental
area, allegedly one of the strongest among all sectors.

11.      The proposedprogrammatic policy-basedapproach, divided into three
stages with clear triggers will provide the right incentives to sustain progressin
mainstreaming environmental considerations insector policies, which i s one of the
major pillars of the improvements needed inthe national environmental management
system. It will also help align the interests of the Finance Ministry, which can influence
many of the sectoral ministries where mainstreaming i s necessary, with environmental
management concerns, thus being o f interest to the Environment Ministry as well. The
loan helps to build coordination across ministries, an important dimension reflected inthe
Development Policy Letter as well.

12.      Thisprogramisjustified by the sound overall economic managementof the
Government. As detailed inthe CAS and other recent Bank documents, Brazil's
govemment i s effectively addressing the double challenge o f macroeconomic

vulnerability and fiscal constraints as well as social deficits. Financing provided under
this loan will help meet Brazil's external financingrequirements as well as its public
sector borrowing requirements.

Thestructure and content of theprogram

13.      The strategy for this first proposed operation is to focus on the GOB'Sshort-
term policies and programs that can lay the foundation for supporting the
achievement of its long-term objectives for environmentally sustainable economic
development and poverty reduction. It i s divided into two main components: (a)the
first focuses on issues under the more direct influence and control of the Ministry of
Environment - institutional strengthening, better coordination of the National System of
Environment Management (SISNAMA),andflexible instruments and social control; and
(b)the second focuses on issues the resolution of which depends on a highdegree of
involvement and collaboration across specific economic sectors, i.e., on mainstreaming.

14.      Specifically, the first loan would support the following reforms and actions
that are critical and strategic for attaining the program's overall desired outcomes and
underpinning the Government's commitment to a change inthe direction of its
environmental policy:

         Improving the effectiveness of the environmental licensing process and
         integration among the three levels of government, providing for clearer definition
         of functions and responsibilities, and eliminating gaps and overlaps inthe
         licensing process;
         Approval of the transparency law to allow public tracking of the licensing
         process, so as to contribute to clearer rules o f the game and improved efficiency
         by increasing social controls;
         Establishment of a public career category o f environmental specialists and hiring
         o f new staff for MMA and IBAMA with the objective o f improving institutional
         effectiveness;
         Approval of a law establishing the conditions and means for water basin
         management to allow basin agencies to serve as the executing arm o f basin
         committees and to collect bulk water tariffs;
         Creation o f an inter-ministerial working group to work on plans for the prevention
         and control of deforestation followed by the launch of the first action planfor
         controlling deforestation inthe Amazon and introducing sustainability inits
         growth strategies;
         Establishment of an inter-ministerial working group for the sustainable
         development of the BR-163region inthe Amazon, allowing for the
         implementation of a zoning exercise (ZEE) prior to the future paving of the road
         inthe Amazon region;
         Approval of the Atlantic Rainforest Law by the House of Representatives, which
         represents a first important step towards the consolidation of a legal framework


                                             vii

        for the protection of a very sensitive and endangered ecosystem. This law i s also
        being considered in an urgent basis by the Senate;
        Identification by Minister of Environment of priority areas for conservation,
    .   sustainable use and benefits from biodiversity for the entire country, which leads
        to the creation of conservation units and sustainable use of those relevant areas;
        Mainstreaming environmental sustainability inkey economic sectors where the
        dialogue with MMA i s more mature, which involves a number of actions taken by
        the GOB such as: (a)the signature by the President and five Governors of the
        Sustainable Development Program for the Amazon region; (b)creation of an
        inter-ministerial working group on environment and sanitation; (c) creation o f a
        technical group between MMA and Minister of Finance to determine ways to
        introduce sustainability criteria intax laws and regulations; (4approval of a law
        requiring upstream environmental analysis and issuance of preliminary licenses
        prior to biddingof hydropower concessions; (e) launching of a new national plan
        for agrarian reform that includes environmental criteria; and (f,the signature of a
        Technical CooperationAgreement between MMA and Ministry of Tourism for
        the inclusion of environmental criteria inthe management of the tourism sector,
        among others.
    This set of actions taken together represents a solid policy reform package that serves
    as a strong foundation to support the government's objective of advancing the
    sustainability agenda.


15.     These are considered critical actions and are generally the ones that any
structural adjustment would have to support. They can be implemented inthe short-
term both to help protect the country's most threatened and important biomes and open
opportunities for the economy to develop in a more sustainable manner. As with the rest
of the issues to be considered under this program, they are all under the responsibility of
the federal government (as opposed to states or municipalities).

16.     The possibility of follow-up lending operations would provide an incentive to
stay on the path of fundamental change in the status and role of environmental
policy. Some of the key measures that would have strategic importance in cementing this
shift include: (i) definition of licensing procedures and harmonization of legislation for
the three levels of government; (ii) strengthening and reorganizing of MMA and IBAMA;
(iii) creation of management committees and bulk water charges implemented in key
water basins; (iv) ecological zoning adopted as a planning tool in the regional
development plans; (v) launching of an action plan for the BR-163 region derived from
the ZEE; (vi) a law to include environmental sustainability criteria (e.g. polluters pay
principle) in fiscal mechanisms submitted to Congress; (vii) establishment of the
institutional framework to manage the national forest program; and (viii) strategic
environmental analysis applied to the new proposed major hydropower plants and the oil
and gas sector.




                                             ...
                                            VI11

Benefits and Risks

17.     The program will result inshort and long-term benefits. The short-term
benefits of the project are a more effective and responsive environmental management
system, which will improve the business environment inthe country and signal to society
as a whole GOB'Sserious commitment to the long- term environmental sustainability of
its development path. The loan will also contribute to the establishment of a framework
for dialogue and improved collaboration on environmental sustainability among key
sectors inthe Government as well as with the private sector and civil society. The longer
term benefits of the project are the welfare gains associated with improved environmental
conditions inthe country, which should inprinciple accrue in greater proportion to
poorer populations.

18.     The proposed loanis the Bank's first programmatic reformloan package in
Brazil to support environmentalsustainability mainly through policy reforms. For
this reason, the more concrete impacts of the program interms of improved
environmental conditions, which are naturally its ultimate objective, require a longer time
to materialize. Its impacts should therefore not be assessedbased on short-term changes
on environmental conditions, but on the path of policy and institutional conditions
leading to them.
19.     Risk offailure is higher for a noveloperation simply because there is less
pastexperience to draw from and thus a higher degree of uncertainty. The
following possible negative outcomes have been identified: (a)the environmental reform
agenda i s not carried out adequately, Le. not inthe agreed scope or within the expected
timeframe; andor (b)reforms are carried out as agreed, but do not have the desired
impacts in terms of the behavioral changes of economic agents, of environmental quality
and natural resource conservation. The latter i s more technical innature and depends on
the complex links between environmental policies and outcomes. This i s an important
riskinlightof the complexity of environmental effects, but it is an issue facedby all
countries and requires continued attention.

20.     The possibilityof the reform agenda not being carried out as planned is
considered a high risk. This i s primarilybecause of macroeconomic, coordination and
institutional risks. First, the economy remains vulnerable to external shocks and social
and political pressure; second,lack of coordination among the key stakeholders could
affect program implementation; third, discussions on future reforms and the approval
process by the Congress could take longer than estimated; fourth, a change inthe
leadership of individual ministries could leadto a delay inthe implementation of the
reforms; andfifth, vested interests could oppose and delay the implementation of key
elements of the reform agenda.

21.     The EnvPRL package was designed so as to enhance the probability of its
actualimplementationand to mitigate risks, The existence of a broad, medium-term
reform agenda agreed among several different ministries and agencies coupled with the
sequencing of the loans and their release only upon compliance with key policy actions
(triggers) are expected to help maintain the momentum of reforms and reduce the risk of
incomplete or delayed implementation. Additionally, the focused investment in


                                            i x

monitoring, evaluation, coordination and strategic communication, along with
institutional strengthening and the sustained involvement of powerful federal agencies
should help diminishthe risks and enhance the returns of EnvPRL. Moreover, the
accompanying Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) will provide direct support to a
participatory monitoring and evaluation process which should involve civil society,
including the private sector and it will contribute to the implementation of the reform
actions planned of all involved ministries.

22.     The environmentalsustainabilityprogramwould be supportedby an
accompanyingtechnicalassistance loan(TAL). The TAL is currently being prepared
and, subject to approval of the proposed adjustment operation, would be presented to the
World Bank Board of Directors within a few months. The technical assistance support to
strengthen the capacities of the ministries involved with the implementation of the
proposedfirst loan would be important in supporting the reform process for the
subsequent loans inthe program. It will allow the GOB and the Bank to closely monitor
and assess results and bringto bear international good practice as this process moves
forward.




                                            X

                                          BRAZIL

                               PROGRAMDOCUMENT

              FIRSTPROGRAMMATICREFORMLOANFOR
                      ENVIRONMENTALSUSTAINABILITY


                                      1. Introduction

1.1     Infew countries is the nationalenvironment as crucial to development and
people's welfare, and at the same time vital to a sustainable global ecology, as inBrazil.
Among other things, Brazilhas one third of all the tropical rain forest of the world, the
largest reservoir of fresh water (20 percent), the second longest coastal line with over
8,500 km, andthe savanna with the highestbiodiversity inthe world. These natural
assets are especially important for the poor for whom they constitute a significant share
of their wealth. The Amazon`s regional and global influence i s legendary. Clouds formed
inthe Amazon are responsible for the precipitation onthe centralpart of the continent, all
the way to SZio Paulo. Moreover, just the annual burninginthe region currently
contributes with about two percent of the world annual C 0 2 emissions. It i s for these
local, national, regional and global considerations that an environmentally sustainable
Brazil i s of great concern. And yet attention to the issue remains inadequate. This i s why
the success of this program i s of vital importance.

1.2     Brazil has historically based its economy on exploiting the immense wealth of its
natural resources. A significant part of its economy still relies on the use o f natural
resources, whether they are used as production inputs or as sinks for production waste.
The forest sector alone i s responsible for four percent of the GDP. Despite the
importance of its natural resource base, Brazil faces major challenges to reverse a trend
of unsustainable use of its natural resources.

1.3     It is difficult to estimate the social costs of environmental degradationinBrazil.
Rough estimates of such costs, focused only on a limitedrange of the consequences of
environmental problems, indicate that they may be inthe range of 1-4percent o f the
country's GDPper year. This emphasizes the fact that environmental management and
protectioninvolve major welfare issues which go beyond simple amenity issues and
small externalities. There are clearly direct welfare gains to be obtained from improved
environmental conditions, particularly for the poor.

1.4     The "mainstreaming" of environmental concerns in and with other sectors is
another major challenge for the country. The approach of leaving environmental
management almost exclusively to the Environment Ministry led to an over-emphasis on
command-and-control mechanisms, which tended to create attritions with sector
ministries. The poor integration o f environmental with sectoral and macroeconomic
policies causes environmental aspects to be neglected or considered too late inproject



                                                 1

 planning and sector policy design, leading to hightransaction costs. Environmental
 decisions usually come after economic decisions have been made. Inmany parts of
 government resistance remains to incorporating such matters inthe planning of core
 economic and sector decisions.

 1.5     There remain many win-win-win opportunities (policies that are good for the
 poor, the environment, and growth), and not all have yet been taken advantage of. It has
 proven difficult to negotiate solutions inthose situations where trade-offs do exist
 between environment and growth, or environment and poverty alleviation. Such
 compromises depend, on the one hand, on the defenders of environmental interests to
 identify and address trade-offs andto be more flexible and capable of reconciling
 environmental conservation objectives with social and economic ones. On the other
 hand, it also depends on the capacity of ministries inother economic sectors (including
 Finance and Planning), to incorporate environmental considerations intheir sector and
 macro policies.

 1.6     Brazil i s thus at a crossroads inits search for equitable and sustainable growth. It
 has to find the right balance between its need to grow, reduce poverty, and maintain its
 natural resources base. This year i s President Lula's opportunity to focus on the
 sustainability agenda. There are hopeful signs that the Government will seize this
 opportunity, but also concerns that the opportunity may pass, and that environmental
 indicators may deteriorate. Lagging behind on the sustainability pillar could have
 significant consequences to Brazil's overall development agenda. The proposed
 operation i s intended to consolidate the emerging trend toward a stronger focus on
 sustainability and avoid backsliding.

 1.7     The proposed operation supports fundamental first steps b y the Government to
 modernize the environmental management system (EMS) and bringit more in line with
 the broader growth agenda, desired improvements inthe business environment, and better
 quality of life for Brazilians. Iffollowed up systematically by the actions outlined inthe
 Government program, these first steps will pave the way toward important environmental
 improvements inthe medium to long run. Inaddition to addressing important policy
 issues, the preparation of the proposed loan has facilitated the initiation o f a process o f
 bridgingthe gap between the views of different sectors ingovernment, the private sector,
 and civil society ina way that will make the modernizationof the EMS more broadly
 accepted b y stakeholders and thus more effective. Its implementation will enable the
 increased collaboration andbetter understanding of opportunities and challenges.
 Additionally, the loan sets up the foundation for the implementation of more ambitious
 reforms that could be supported by two possible future loans inthis programmatic series.

 1.8     The moment i s right for the proposed program. Brazil has done a lot over the past
 two decades to improve environmental management at both the national and sub-national
~


 levels. The progress achieved duringthis period has stalled or even reversed the trend of
 rapid environmental degradation in some key areas. The current administration i s
 anxious to do more; it i s makinga clear attempt to better integrate environmental
 objectives with social and economic ones. If successful, the new direction will be a
 valuable lesson not only for Brazil but also to other larger countries strugglingwith the


                                               2

sustainable agenda, be it Indonesia, India, China or Russia. Several key areas of
intervention are currently highpriorities, including: (i) increasingthe transparency and
accountability of the environmental management system (EMS); (ii) improving the
effectiveness of the EMS through better coordination and clearer definition of
responsibilities among the three levels of government; (iii) increasingthe use o f
economic instruments compared to command-and-control mechanisms; (iv) promoting
sustainable development inthe Amazon and the protection of other key ecosystems; (v)
improving water resources management through increased decentralization, improved
local management and increased financial autonomy; and (vi) promoting the upstream
inclusion o f environmental sustainability concerns inthe planning and implementation of
major development projects.

1.9     It is envisioned that, if successfully implemented, the proposed programwould
contribute to a more sustainable Brazil where economic growth would be balanced with
social development and the improvement of environmental quality. A country inwhich
priority ecosystems of national and global significance such as the Amazon, the Cerrado
and the Atlantic Forest would have better chances of being conserved for the benefit of
future generations; where the natural resources would be sustainable managed; where the
EMS would be more effective and efficient leadingto coherent and well thought
decisions regarding environmental licensing and other important aspects of
environmental management; where environmental concerns would be truly mainstreamed
into the plans and programs of key sectoral ministries; a country with a more sustainable,
decentralized and participatory management of water resources; and a place where the
poor would have access to a healthier and more pleasant environment.


          2. The Economy andEnvironmentalSustainability
                          A. RECENT     ECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS

2.1     Brazil's economic management continues to be strong. The country continues to
operate the trio of fiscal balance, inflation targeting, and very limited exchange rate
intervention that it has been utilizing since January 1999, when the Real was allowed to
float. There i s no sign of reduced commitment to this strategy.

2.2     The country's public finances continue to be well managed, with the primary
budget surplus of 4.25 percent of GDP agreed with the IMFlikely to be surpassed again
this year. The combined surplusfor January to April has already met the IMFtarget for
the first half of 2004. Public debt fell to 56.6 percent of GDP inApril 2004 from 57.4
percent inMarch.

2.3     Perhaps equally important, the Treasury has taken advantage o f favorable global
economic conditions to improve the composition of debt issuance and therefore o f
outstanding public debt quite aggressively, reducing the rollover of dollar or other
foreign-exchange linked debt to zero inrecent months: the proportion of these bonds in
public debt outstanding has fallen by more than half since the 2002 election, and now
stands at about 16 percent. Conversely, fixed rate and inflation-linked debt, which reduce

economic vulnerabilities, have more than doubled their share since January 2003 to over
26 percent o f debt outstanding.

2.4      Inflationtargeting i s also being pursued with discipline by the Central Bank: 2003
consumer price (IPCA) inflation at 9.3 percent fell within the revisedtarget band- it was
higher than the original target mainly owing to pass-through from currency depreciation
early inthe year. The Central Bank has held monetary policy steady inthe face of recent
oil price rises and market nervousness about higher future US interest rates. Market
expectations suggest Brazil's year-end 2004 inflation will be close to the target rate o f 5.5
percent. The target for 2005 remains at 4.5 percent.

2.5      The external accounts have been the source o f the most encouragingnews in
2004, with exports remainingrobust andthe current account slightly in surplus. The 2004
trade surplus i s expected to be about US$24 billion, reducing external financing needs to
about US$ 36 billion in2004, much less than inrecent years, of which a substantial part
has already been pre-financed. The country has also built international reserves to above
US$ 50 billion, further reducing external vulnerability. Based on this performance,
Brazil's stated intention not to renew its Stand-By Agreement with the IMFmay be
judged as realistic. The present SBA ends inMarch 2005.

2.6      Structural reforms have been slower than might have been hoped about a year
ago, with only a small part of the initially proposedtax reform actually passed and some
dilution o f the social security reform. The social security reform nonetheless represented
an important advance (this and other reforms may be supported by the Bank's
Programmatic Fiscal ReformLoan series).

2.7      As was to be expected, the social security problem has not been resolvedoverall.
New legislative reform will soon have to address shortfalls inthe private sector INSS
pillar (including the recent recognition of a net liability of R$ 12.3 billion) andinthe
regulatory framework for closedfunds. Moreover, the social security reformpassed by
Congress inDecember 2003 still has to survive constitutional scrutiny by the Supreme
Court. At the time of writing, the outcome of one challenge to the 11percent tax on
pensions remainedhard to predict. Were the Court to strike down this reform, this would
certainly imply a tougher challenge ahead. Nonetheless, performance to date suggests
that the Government would find an appropriate response to preserve fiscal performance.

2.8      Inaddition to the measures taken to date, legislative directions are positive overall
and, subject to the speed of legislation, significant improvements inthe economic
environment are inthe pipeline: new insolvency law, new innovation law, improved
regulatory agencies, a new model for the power sector, and law strengthening the
framework for public-private participation ininfrastructure investments. Many o f these
structural reforms are supported by the Bank's series of Programmatic Reforms for
Sustainable and Equitable Growth, the first o f which was discussed by the Bank's Board
inDecember 2003.

2.9      Against this backdrop, the growth response to recent interest rate cuts has been
slow to come but i s now becoming apparent. Inthe first quarter of 2004 the Brazilian



                                              4

economy grew at an annualized rate of above 6 percent. The 2004 growth forecast of 3.5
percent i s likely to be met or even surpassed, mostly based on accumulated interest rate
falls and estimated spare capacity inthe economy. Although unemployment has remained
stubbornly above 12 percent, historically very highfor Brazil, economic growth should
soon begin to bringunemployment down again. The challenge will thus be to continue
progress on legislative reforms to improve the microeconomic growth environment with
sufficient momentum to provide domestic and foreign investors with the confidence to
resume capital investment. It i s important to note that some of the payoff from legislative
reforms i s immediate, since investors are looking to the microeconomic growth agenda
for evidence o f the long-run consistency of the Government's overall economic strategy.

2.10    Moreover, the global economic scenario i s not expected to remain as favorable to
Brazil as it has been inthe past year, with low rates of return in G7 bond markets
accompanied by a recovery inworld growth (and thus demand for Brazilian exports), and
particularly highdemand from China for Brazil's commodity exports. While Chinese
growth should remain strong, it i s not expected to maintain today's levels. U S and other
G7 interest rates are expected to rise, and liquidity inemerging market debt markets will
likely diminish. Nonetheless, with greater integration with the world economy (Brazilian
total trade should reach 25 percent of GDP in 2004, up from 18.5 percent in 2000), lower
external financing needs, and higher foreign exchange reserves, the Brazilian economy
should be more resilient to these factors than inthe recent past (including the episodes of
turbulence in 1998/99 and 2002/03).

2.11    Slow growth and persistent unemployment, along with delays inthe structural
reform agenda and the perception that certain ministries are not executing spending
programs efficiently, have reduced the President's and the Government's popularity.
From the economic policy perspective, the main risk that this entails i s the erosion of
support within the Government for the high-performing team at the Ministry of Finance.
This is unlikely, however, since the President has repeatedly stated the importance of the
Finance team, and the leadership has demonstrated a very clear grasp of the costs
associated with a deviation from prudent economic management. The recent decision to
raise the minimumwage (which has important fiscal effects on public-sector pension and
salary expenditures) to only R$ 260 (a 1.2percent real rise) from R$240is the most
recent example of the Government's unwillingness to gamble with the economy.

2.12    A likelier risk is of continuing slow progress on growth reforms. Ina less
forgiving global economy, weak economic growth may undermine market confidence in
Brazil and expose the economy to another bout o f high spreads, currency depreciation,
and inflationary pressure. Evenunder this scenario, however, recent experience suggests
that the Government i s likely to face the situation by makingharder decisions about
spending rather than by exposing the economy to greater risks through higher borrowing
or inflation. Recent announcements that the Government intends to develop a third
component of economic reforms (in addition to fiscal policy and microeconomic growth
reforms) to mobilize national saving by improving the composition of public spendingto
allow increased investment and reduced taxation send a strong signal inthis regard.




                                             5

2.13    As partof its searchfor higher growth strategies, Brazilwill form partof ajoint
IMF-World Bank pilot initiative to explore the differentiated treatment of certain public
infrastructure investments infiscal targets. Federalinvestment ininfrastructure has fallen
below one percent of GDP, a level that international experience suggests i s too low to
generate solid growth. Given the short-run constraints on public sector liquidity,
however, changes inaccounting rules are unlikely to bringsignificant increases in
available funds without corresponding alterations inthe pattern of public spending away
from government consumption. Perceived debt dynamics will remain the focus of
sovereign bond-holders, domestic and foreign alike.

                         Table 2.1: PrincipalEconomicIndicators




2.14    Brazil's external financing needs, public debt, external debt, and other
macroeconomic variables are given intable 2.1. The public debt to GDP i s expected to
remain on a downward trajectory through year-end and beyond. This finding i s robust to
simulations of quite extreme economic shocks carried out for the recent Country
Economic Memorandum. It should also be noted that the Bank's adjustment lending has a
neutral impact on the size of public expenditures (Bank financing i s transferred directly
to Treasury with no effect on budgetingprocesses), although, since Bank lending carries
a lower financing cost than alternative sources o f external finance, the net effect on the
public purse i s positive.

2.15    Given Brazil's continuing strong economic management, the robustness of debt
sustainability simulations for the Brazilian economy, the proven ability o f the
Government to react to adverse conditions with appropriate measures, Brazil's economic
policies arejudged to be on a sustainable footing.

2.16    This creates the right conditions to embark upon a longer-termprogramof
reforms that would not receive priority under crisis conditions. Absent serious shocks,
Brazil should now be able to focus on actions with long-term payoffs rather than crisis
management. The strategic challenge remains to raise Brazil's long-run potential growth
and to create the conditions under which "growth with quality" can be sustained.
Economic sustainability i s a key component of the "quality" of the growth that Brazil
hopes to generate inthe coming years.




                                            6

2.17     Most important i s the recognition of the coherence of the Government's overall
                                           -
development strategv, which combines reinforcing the disciplined approach to
macroeconomic management, establishing best-practice social programs targeted at the
poor, consolidatingprogress inhealth and education, tackling microeconomic reforms to
ignite growth, and buildingthe institutional bases for environmental sustainability. In
addition to meeting fiscal and inflation targets, the Government has moved decisively to
attempt to increase the impact of conditional cash transfer programs (such as "Bolsa
Escola," "Bolsa Alimenta@o," and certain components of the Zero Hunger Program
introduced in 2003), merging these into a new program, "Bolsa Familia" (which i s being
supported technically and financially by the Bank). Sensible decentralized approaches to
improving quality and access inhealth and education continue to be applied. A broad
array o f legislative measures will improve the investment climate. Institutional
developments to strengthen environmental sustainability should thus be seen as a part of
this overall development strategy.

          B. ECONOMIC         GROWTH,       POVERTY REDUCTIONAND ENVIRONMENTAL
                                              SUSTAINABILITY

2.18     The linkages between the objectives of economic growth, poverty reduction and
environmental sustainability are complex and not amenable to easy generalization.
Nevertheless, there have been a number o f attempts by various institutions andexperts to
roughly estimate the costs of different environmental problems inBrazil. Even though
most such estimates focus only on a limitedrange of the consequences o f environmental
problems (mainly due to lack of data), it i s not unrealistic to estimate such costs
nationally inthe range of 1-4percent of the country's GDP. Assuming such estimates to
be realistic, this would reinforce the fact that environmental protection involves major
welfare issues and goes far beyond a simple number of amenity issues and small scale
externalities. There are, clearly, direct welfare gains to be obtained from the
improvement inenvironmental conditions inthe country, particularly as such benefits
often accrue the poor.

2.19     It is fair to say that, except for some specific problems, economic growth i s
desirable both interms of poverty alleviation, as well as its role in supporting policies
that improve environmental conditions2. For the most serious and immediate problems
facing countries like Brazil -lack of access to clean water, encroachment into fragile
lands and associated risks, and forest and land degradation - the limited evidence
suggests that addressing these problems will bringmajor welfare gains and such gains
will primarily accrue poorer people, and that economic growth would, inmost cases, help
address some of these problems more easily3.



  An important counter example would be C02 emissions, which only tend to rise with income.

  Trade-offs could be expected in the case of Amazon deforestation, which in principle may bring short
term economic gains, or air and water pollution by industries, which may produce more at lower costs if
free from pollution controls. Such gains, however, exclude the externalities above mentioned: from a
social perspective, a wealth of literature applied to Brazil, cited later in this document, suggest that the
financial benefits are largely offset by the social costs.


                                                      7

2.20     The World Bank's environmental strategy has largely been based on the above
assumptions, and the bulk of the Bank's work on the environment has been directed to
find growth options for countries that simultaneously leadto improved environmental
and social outcomes -the so called win-win-win options. The proposed operation
follows this same approach and has the overall objective of strengthening Brazil's
environmental management system while supporting growth strategies.

Growth and Environment

2.21     The 1992World Summit on Environment and Development inRio de Janeiro
adopted the concept of sustainable development. Agreement was reached that the
environment would be given more weight on the development agenda, industrialized
countries committed to increase their support to environmental protection worldwide, and
a common vision emerged that economic growth and environmental protection should be
inseparable components of sustainable development.

2.22     Implementation of these principles proved far more difficult than anticipated. The
trade-offs and synergies between growth, poverty alleviation and environmental
protection have not been precisely assessed, largely because there i s not enough reliable
and consistent knowledge. The Rio summit signaled that the long-run costs o f
environmental neglect could be extremely high, threatening the sustainability of
development for future generations. On the other hand, it was also made clear that there
are still many opportunities for quick environmental gains and "win-win-win" policies
that could favor growth, poverty alleviation and environmental protection.

2.23     Inmany cases trade-offs do exist between environment andgrowth objectives.
Moreover, ina country as diverse as Brazil, these trade-offs vary from one region to
another. Adoption and enforcement of stricter pollution standards will likely raise
investment and/or recurrent costs of production, and setting aside land for environmental
protectionhas an opportunity cost inforegone productive land use. Inboth cases, there
are likely - private - short-term losses interms of growth and employment, but also
social gains, either immediate (e.g., inpollution abatement), or inthe longer term (e.g., in
maintenance of ecosystem services, such as from the Brazilian rain forests and savannas).

2.24     On the other hand, there are synergies ("win-win" opportunities) between
environmental considerations and growth. Improving the productivity o f water use
through efficiency-enhancing water resources management, or the productivity of the
work force b y reducing illnesses relatedto water and air pollution, are examples. Zero-
till farmingreduces soil degradation incommercial agriculture and raises its profitability
inthe medium term. Sustainable, plannedmanagement of native forests will provide a
higherrate of return, within the time horizon of a generation, than unmanaged, predatory
logging, as well as more stable communities4.




  Schneider, R.; Arima, E.;Verissimo, A.; Barreto, P.; Souza Junior, C. ,"Sustainable Amazon -
Limitations and Opportunities for Rural Development", World Bank, 2002. (SBrie Parcerias; Nr. 1)



                                                  8

2.25    A particular challenge hasbeento achieve abalance betweenthe need for
economic growth and maintaining the natural resource base. It i s hardto estimate the
reliance o f the Brazilian economy on its natural resources, as these do not include only
inputssuch as soils, forests, savannas, etc., important for agriculture and livestock (9
percent o f GDP), and forestry (4 percent), mineral resources for miningand metallurgy,
or landscapes for tourism, but also air and water bodies absorbing and assimilating waste
products from industry,transport and urban living. The rich natural resource base
certainly contributes to Brazil's comparative advantage. Important export commodities
(soybean, meat, orangejuice, etc., not to speak of minerals) depend directly on Brazil's
natural resources.

2.26    Perhaps more important than the "direct use" value of resources such as soils and
forests are the "indirect use" values associated with the support of life itself. This
includes water cycles, climate regulation, carbon storage, and other ecological services,
as well as amenity (or existence) values associated with the pleasure derived from
undisturbed nature. Indirect use values rarely enter private profit and loss, which leads to
socially undesirablepatterns of resource use. Forests are a case inpoint: the prevalent
attitude has been to remove them as an "obstacle to growth" rather than to make use of
the standing forest for sustained supply of timber and other forest products and for
environmental services that are only beginning to be understood.

2.27    Medium and large-scale cattle ranching has been identified as the single most
important driving force of Amazon deforestation (government-sponsored land settlements
may be the second most imp~rtant)~.          It is increasingly profitable and dominated by more
efficient and professional agents. Yet uncontrolled expansion of ranching and
commercial agriculture may eventually have an impact on the regional climate inthe
Amazon, and perhaps even on the climate of other Brazilian regions (such as the
agriculturally important savannas). Controlling open access to forests inthe interior and
reserving land for protection, while promoting the sustainable use of forested areas, i s
key to avoiding as-yet poorly understood damage that would foreclose future options.

2.28    The unsustainable use o f natural resources implies rather high economic and
social costs. Estimating such costs i s notoriously difficult. There have been a number o f
attempts by various institutions and experts to roughly estimate the costs of different
environmental problems inBrazil (see Table 2.2).




 Margulis, S., "Causes of Deforestation of the BrazilianAmazon", World Bank, 2003.


                                                   9

          Table 2.2:       Estimated Cost of Environmental Degradation inBrazil

 Concern                                                              Cost per year (US$)
 Air pollution inS ~ Paulo6and Riode Janeiro7
                           O                                           3.3 billion
 Lack of access to clean water and sanitation'                         4.3 billion
 Water pollution amenity values in 7 largest urban areas               300 million    '"
 Uncollected solid waste                                               380 million    l1
 Amazon deforestation                                                  250 million    l2
 Soil degradation                                                      5.9 billion   l3


2.29     These figures probably underestimate the true social costs of each problem as they
consider only selected effects, and the list represents only a fraction of all problems
associated with natural resource degradation in Brazil. The sumof the major problems
cited above adds to some US$ 14billion per year, roughly 3 percent of the GDP in
200214. There i s thus evidence that both short and longterm costs from environmental
degradation inBrazil are significant, and that maintenance and sustainable use of natural
resources are important conditions for long-term growth and achievement o f better
quality of life inBrazil.

Environment and Poverty

2.30     The World Bank Environmental Strategy notes that, ingeneral, environmental
degradation affects the poor disproportionately. Inthe case o f "brown" (pollution and
urban) problems, a vicious cycle exists between urban congestion and polluted
environments with poor socioeconomic conditions. Living in more polluted and
inhospitable environments, the poor are at greater risk from air and water pollution, from
flood and hillside erosion, and from other forms of congestion and pollution. They can
also least afford to pay for preventive or protective health treatment for the impacts.




  The figures indicate the magnitudeof health benefits (morbidity and mortality related to children (0-2
years) and individuals older than 64 years) associated with the implementation of the Vehicle Air Pollution
ControlProgrambetween 1997-2000(US$20 million for morbidity and US$2.8 billions for mortality
cases) -Propostapara um Impost0Ambiental sobre os CombustiveisLiquidos no Brasil. Seroa da Motta,
Ronald0 and Mendes,Francisco, IPEA, (Discussiontext, No 399), 1996.
  Brazil: Managing Environmental Pollution inthe State of Rio de Janeiro, Volumes Iand 11.World Bank,
*1996.
  Mortality only.
  Brazil: Managing PollutionProblems, The Brown Environmental Agenda, Volume I.        World Bank, 1998,
and Seroada Motta (footnote 15) estimate of US$5OO,OOO/lifesaved.
10 ibidem
     .
11 .
   ibidem
l2CausesofDeforestationoftheBrazilianAmazon.Margulis,SCrgio,WorldBank,2003.
l3 EconomicsofbiodiversityinBrazil:ThecaseofForestConversion.SeroadaMotta,R.,IPEA,
   The
(DiscussionText No 133)1996.
l4 SIMAIWorld Bank Web system



                                                  10

2.3 1 For these reasons, pollution abatement programs, the provision of safe water and
sewerage services inBrazil are pro-poor. A poor Brazilian child i s six times more likely
to die than a child born to a wealthy household; inthe Philippines, the same ratio i s two.
Even air pollution, a relatively "equal opportunity" hazard, can generate air contaminant
concentrations in oorer urban areas double those inricher ones (as has beenfound in
Rio de Janeiro).   18


2.32    The poor are also affectedby the degradation of the land resource base, including
removal of forest cover. More than 700,000 rural smallholder families live inthe
Amazon forest and depend inlarge part on its products and services for hunting,
gathering of rubber, oils, fruits, nuts and medicinal plants, as well as for fishing. The
removal of forest cover for agriculture and ranching affects those mostly poor producers
directly. Fuel wood makes up for a large percentage of the energy matrix inthe semi-arid
poor Northeast. More than 50 percent of cooking fuel inthe region i s wood-based,
predominantly usedby the poor, but unsustainable use of an already fragile and resource-
poor ecosystem has substantially reduced the fuel wood sources. Environmental
degradation also forces the rural poor to move onto more fragile ecosystems such as
hillsides, flood plains, mangroves, forests or protectedareas. A spiral of resource
degradation, migration, and poverty often results.

2.33    It has been difficult for environmental policyto identify and address trade-offs,
as well as to be more flexible and capable of compromising environmental conservation
objectives with social and economic ones. Other policy makers, including sectoral,
finance and planning ministries, have found it difficult (or have been reluctant) to
incorporate environmental considerations in sector andmacro-economic policies. Lack
of information and of data of good quality have prevented a better integration of the
environment into sector policies ("mainstreaming")       .A clear attempt by both "sides" of
the current administration to better integrate environmental objectives with social and
economic ones i s one of the main motivating factors underlying the proposed operation.



                               3. Environment inBrazil
                              A. MAINENVIRONMENTAL          ISSUES

3.1     Key environmental issues inBrazil relate to soil degradation, air, water and soil
pollution, deforestation and protection of the Amazon rain forest, protection of the
Atlantic Forest, the degradation of the central Brazilian savannas (Cerrado) and other
fragile ecosystems.

3.2     Brazil i s unique among upper-middle income countries due to its huge land area
(8.5 million sq km) and rich endowment with natural resources - forests, savannas, water


l5A comprehensive study anddiscussion ofthe"brown" issuesandhowtheyaffectthepooriscontained
inthe World Bank report "Brazil -ManagingPollution Problems -The Brown Environmental Agenda", 2
volumes, 1998,Report Nr. 16635-BR



                                             11

and minerals. About half of Brazil's territory i s coveredby the Amazon rainforest, the
largest remaining rain forest inthe world and the largest repository of biodiversity.
Almost one-fourth of the country, located inits center, i s the world's richest savanna
(Cerrado) in terms of its biodiversity, where three large continental rivers (Sgo Francisco,
Paraguai and Amazonas) or their main tributaries have their origin. Little i s left, however,
o f the once extensive and still extremely biodiversity-rich Atlantic forest.

3.3     Less than four percent of Brazil's land area i s protected, compared to around six
percent inthe middle-income group, but this does not count some of Brazil's most intact
areas interms of forest cover and biodiversity occupied by indigenous peoples who have
played a major role inconserving these lands. Given the size of the country, this small
percentage still means nevertheless a huge area in absolute terms (see Annex IV for a
comparison o f protected areas in selected countries).

3.4     Inthe 1990s, removalof naturalvegetation, andparticularly of rain forest cover
was about 0.4 percent annually and slightly lower than in countries at a similar income
level, but highly significant interms of absolute area. Inrecent years, more than 23,000
sq km were cleared annually in the Amazon, with consequences for climate, soil erosion,
biodiversity and the general functioning of ecosystems. A more detailed account of
Amazon deforestation i s contained inAnnex V. Less than 7 percent of the Atlantic
Forest, a world biodiversity "hotspot", i s left. The Cerrado savannas, also a hotspot, have
long been experiencing serious degradation from cattle ranching and more recently from
rapid expansion of commercial crop agriculture. Less than 20percent of this biome has
been left undisturbed. Soil degradation, as a consequence of agriculture and livestock
grazing, i s becoming an increasingly serious problem. So are hazards and pollution from
agrochemicals.

3.5      There i s more freshwater available per capita inBrazil than in other upper-middle
income countries (see Table 3.l),    butis extremely unevenly distributed. About 70
percent o f Brazil's fresh water i s concentrated inthe Amazon Basin, whereas the semi-
aridNortheastregion, with 28 percent of the population, has only five percent of the
country's water resources. Inthe industrialized South and Southeast regions, with nearly
60 percent of the population, water pollution problems are severe. Almost all rivers
crossing urban areas are highly polluted, affecting the health of poor populations, causing
environmental damage, and increasingthe cost of water treatment for downstream users.

3.6      Urbanization i s highinBrazil (81 percent), although this includes urban centers of
highly different types, from the twelve largest metropolitan centers with 31percent o f the
population to small towns with a seat of municipal government. Small towns and
medium-sized cities are growing most rapidly. Poverty inBrazil i s also becoming
increasingly an urban phenomenon - slightly more than half o f all poor live intowns and
cities. Brazil shares with similar countries the problems of pollution of water, air and
soils, lack of sanitation and solid waste collection that go with a highconcentration o f
people inmetropolitan areas. Air pollution i s concentrated inthe metropolitan areas o f
Sgo Paul0 and Rio de Janeiro.




                                             12

 Table 3.1: Selected EnvironmentalIndicatorsfor Brazilcomparedwith the Latin
        America andCaribbeanRegionandUpperMiddleIncomeCountries.

                                                       Brazil      LatinAmerica Upper Middle
                                                                   and Caribbean incomeGroup
                                                                      Countries
kgriculture
Agricultural land (% of land area)                      29.6            37.9            43.O
Irrigated land (% of crop land)                          4.4             14.0            13.0
Population Density, rural (peoplehq km)                  61              252             184

`orests
Forest area (% of total landarea)                       63.0            47.1            34.5
Annual deforestation(% change, 1990-2000)                0.4             0.5             0.5
ForestArea (1,000 sq km)                                5,325           9,440           7,742

liodiversity
Nationally protectedareas (% of land area)               4.4             7.4             5.8

hergy
Commercial energy use per capita(kg oil equiv)          1,068           1,171           1,897
Electric power consumptionper capita(kWh)               1,811           1,470           2,427
Share of electricity generatedby coal (%)                2.9             5.2             31.5
Energy depletion (% of GNI)                              2.1             5.1             6.5

:missionsandPollution
C02emissionsper capita(mt)                               1.8             2.6             4.9

Yater andSanitation
Freshwaterresources per capita(m3)                     42,944           32,905          19,319
Access to improvedwater source (% of rural pop.)          54             62              70
Access to improvedwater source (% of urbanpop.)           95             93               92
Access to sanitationrural(% of rural pop.)                40             48               57
Access to Sanitationurban(% of urbanpop.)                 85              87              88

Source: The Little Green Data Book 2002




3.7     Problems with water supply, sewerage, and solid waste collection services beset
also many smaller towns with scant financial and managerialcapacity to address them.
While overall access of Brazil's urban households to water supply service i s high, at
about 90 percent, coverage varies considerably from region to region and state to state,
and quality differs dramatically from one part o f a city to another. Some 56 percent o f
urban households are connected to a sewerage system and 16percent have septic
systems, but the unevenness of coverage i s even more dramatic for sanitation than for
water supply. Little of the collected wastewater i s treated, adding to health hazards and
environmental degradation, especially inurban areas. Coverage with water supply and
sanitation i s highest inthe relatively affluent South and Southeast and lowest inthe



                                             13

poorer states of the North and Northeast. A large part of the unserved population lives in
peri-urban areas, slums (fuvelas), and smaller towns, with mainly lower-income
populations.

3.8     The bulk (81 percent) of electric energy generated inBrazil i s based on
hydropower. Less than one third of overall energy use relies on traditional fuels, and
commercial energy use per capitai s relatively low. Expansion of generating capacity i s
crucial for the stability of the system, but carries a host of environmental issues. C 0 2
emissions of about one ton per capita are low incomparison with other countries at the
same income level, but this figure omits emissions from forest clearing and other burning
of vegetation, which would double this amount.

                      B. ENVIRONMENTAL        MANAGEMENTINBRAZIL

3.9     Brazil has one of the most advanced environmental management systems among
developing countries, and has made steady and significant improvements over the last 25
years. Most obvious "lose-lose" policies have been phased out, including subsidies with
negative impacts on the environment. Examples include energy, pesticides, and the
Amazon fiscal incentives conducive to deforestation.

Legal Framework

3.10    The "National Environment System" (SISNAMA) was established by the
National Environmental Policy Law of 1981, which also created the National
Environmental Council (CONAMA) and the basic instruments of the environmental
management system. The structure comprises the CONAMA, the Ministry o f
Environment (MMA),the federal environment agency (IBAMA), as well as state and
municipal environmental agencies.

3.11    The new Constitution of 1988 dedicated a specific chapter to the environment and
defined the broad competence of the various levels of government. It also enshrined the
requirement of environmental impact assessmentsand the "polluter-pays" principle, and
strengthened conservationby declaring selected biomes as national heritage, namely the
Amazon, the Atlantic Forest, the Pantanal, the Serra do Mar and the coastal zone. Other
relevant legal bases include the Environmental Crimes Law (1998), the Forest Code
(created in 1965, most recently amended in2001), and the Law of the National System of
ConservationUnits - SNUC (2000), among others.

3.12    The National Water Resources Management System (SINGERH)was created by
the law n"943311997, with the main objectives of coordinating the integrated water
management system and implementing the National Water Resources Policy. The
SINGERHcomprises the NationalWater Resources Council (CNRH), the National
Water Agency (ANA), State Water Resources Councils, River Basin Committees,
federal, state and municipal institutions that deal with water management issues, and
water agencies. Similar legislation has been introduced in almost all states.




                                             14

Decentralization

3.13     According to the new Constitution of 1988, environmental management inBrazil
i s largely decentralized across the three tiers of government - federal, state and
municipal. The federal government establishes the general guidelines and norms and
provides enforcement through IBAMA; states and municipalities are responsible for
supplemental legislation and its enforcement. The federal government has exclusive
competence incertain fields - energy, minerals and mining, and indigenous peoples. In
other areas, such as forests, biodiversity conservation, pollution control, and
environmental liability, the competences are concurrent (i.e., the responsibility of the
Federal Government to adopt general rules.i s supplemented by the responsibility of the
states), although lower levels can only impose more stringent rules and standards than
higher levels. States are responsible for implementing federal legislation, resolutions o f
CONAMA (including environmental quality standards), in addition to formulating and
implementing their own policies, including licensing and control of most resource use
activities.

3.14     Specially inthe management of urban and pollution problems, states have long
taken a lead inthe country, notably S2o Paul0 and Rio de Janeiro states. Inpractice,
pollution management i s almost entirely handled by states. Although the Constitution
assigns some environmental responsibilities to municipalities, apart from the largest
metropolitan cities very few have actually developed capacity in environmental
management. Municipalities are responsible for zoning, urban solid waste management
and for noise pollution. They have recently been more active inrequesting a greater
participation inthe system, particularly with regard to licensing. The water resources
management system i s also highly decentralized. The roles and functions of each level of
government are summarized inAnnex VI.



Institutions

3.15     The National Environment Council, CONAMA, i s the lead institution of
SISNAMA. Its main function i s assisting the President of Brazil informulating National
Environmental Policy Directives. It includes representatives from all ministries, other
relevant federal agencies, the states, municipalities, civil society organizations, and from
the private sector. CONAMA, with its technical commissions establishes, among other
functions, norms and criteria, national environmental norms, guidelines and standards for
the environmental licensing system, relatedto protected areas, for critical polluted areas,
and decides as last instance of administrative appeal on penalties imposedby IBAMA.
Most States have a similar council of representatives from governments and civil society,
replicating CONAMA.

3..16    The Ministrv of Environment (MMA),established in 1992, has primary
responsibility for planning, coordinating and implementing the National Environment
Policy established by the law of 1981. Specific areas of responsibility are: policies for
the conservation and sustainable use of ecosystems, biodiversity and forests; strategies



                                              15

and instruments aimed at improving environmental quality and the sustainable use of
natural resources; policies integrating production and environment, and programs and
policies for the Amazon. The Ministry has five Secretariats: (i)          brown agenda,
environmental impact assessmentsand coastal zone management, (ii)                forestry and
biodiversity, (iii)   water resources, (iv) Amazonian coordination, and (v) zoning, eco-
tourism, Agenda 21, and economic instruments.

3.17     The Institute for Environment and Renewable Resources (IBAMA),created in
1989, i s the main federal environmental executive agency, subordinated to MMA. It i s
responsible for the execution of environmental policy inthe fields of conservation,
environmental control, use of renewable resources, and protection of natural ecosystems,
among other things. IBAMA also manages federal protected areas, conservation of
endangered species, the permit and control of exploitation and transport of forest and
other renewable natural resource, permits for land clearing16and control o f fisheries.
IBAMAhas only about 7,700 staff spread out inall states.

3.18     The Brazilian National Water Agency (ANA) was created inJuly 2000, in
response to the increasingdemands on water resources by conflicting uses (agriculture,
industry,urban and recreational). ANA'Smandate is to implement the National Policy
on Water Resources (PNRH) and the planning and management of the national water
resources, subject to principles, guidelines and instruments definedb y the National
Policy on Water Resources. ANA i s an executive agency of the Ministry of Environment.
It is managed by a Board of Directors andhas autonomy to regulate the multiple water
uses. The National Water Resources Council (CNRH) i s composed of representatives
from the federal and state administrations, water users groups and organized civil society.
One of its major roles i s to define complementary directives for the implementation o f the
National Policy on Water Resources. MMA's Water Resources Secretariat (SRH),
created in 1995, supports the Council with technical work for its decision-making and as
its technical secretariat. I t s other attributions are the formulation of the National Policy
on Water Resources, and the integration of water resources and environmental
management.

3.19     State-level institutions correspondingroughly to CONAMA, MMA,IBAMA,
ANA and CNRHexist invirtually all states.

3.20     InBrazil, there is a "fourth branch" of government, both at federal and state level,
which plays a highly significant role inenvironmental management and governance: the
"Ministe`rio Pziblico" or Public Prosecutor's Office, a unique institution worldwide. It i s
independent of the other three branches. One of its duties i s to protect the People's rights
to "sound" environmental quality and to bringcriminal and civil action against
environmental offenders. Hundreds of environmental lawsuits (both civil and criminal)




l6 IBAMA'srole incontrol of forest exploitation and land clearing could as well be taken over by the
states, but these have been largely reluctant to do so.



                                                    16

are filed every year at both federal and state courts, often with positive results for
environmental management17.

Instruments

3.21 Environmental management inBrazil i s largely based on command-and-control
instruments. The four main types o f instruments are:

         0     Environmental quality and emission standards;
         0     Landuse regulations;
         0     Environmental licensing; and
         0     Economic instruments.

3.22     Environmental qualitv and emission standards are definedb y CONAMA,
although states can apply more stringent standards.

3.23     Landuse regulations. These include "zoning" and establishment of conservation
                         -
units. Urban zoning is responsibility of municipalities, whereas ecological-economic
zoning (ZEE) involves the states, municipalities, private sector and civil society, under
guidelines and methodologies issued by the federal government. ZEE has not yet been
widely implemented18. It may or may not have legally bindingcharacter. Traditionally,
ithas been considered by governments more as scientific data-collection and
interpretation exercise rather than a political negotiation subsidized by technical work.
Most importantly, zoning, where it has been completed, i s rarely implemented, due to a
lack of incentivating instruments beyond restrictive legislation, and lack o f integration
with regional planning.

3.24     All three levels of government establish public conservation units. Inaddition,
the Forest Code provides for the maintenance of natural vegetation cover in each private
rural property as a "legal reserve", ranging from as much as 80 percent of properties in
the Amazon rain forest to 20 percent inother parts of Brazil.

3.25     Environmental licenses have been introduced inthe 1980s, and are at the core of
environmental management. The Brazilian licensing system i s probably the most
advanced among developing countries. Public and private projects or activities
considered to be potentially polluting or representing a risk for environmental
degradation require licenses, and in some cases broader environmental impact
assessments. Licenses are handled mostly by state environmental agencies.
Municipalities or the federal government may be responsible, depending on the size,


.-A
I/   specific Brazilian legal instrument, quite regularly used by the MinistQio Ptiblico and environmental
agencies, i s an out-of-court agreement, which i s legally binding on the offending party (Term0 de
Ajustamento de Conduta- TAC),providing for repair of damages or correction of illegal actions instead of
criminal prosecution.
'*State-wide   zoning was funded by Bank loans inthe case of Mato Grosso and Rondonia states, but has
also not been fully implemented.



                                                     17

nature and location of the activity". Environmental licensing i s also mandatory for some
fiscal benefits and credit entitlements. The licensing system i s consolidated inBrazil,
particularly for fixed sources, but infrastructureprojects (roads, hydropower schemes,
waterways, etc.) face serious uncertainties from licensing. A more detailed discussion of
licensing i s included under Annex VII.

3.26     Sanctions such as fines and compensations are imposedby environmental
agencies at all levels. Prison sentences can be applied in case of certain environmental
crimes. Agreements between a violator andthe government authority and/or judiciary
(TAC) provide a grace period to achieve full compliance. Fine levels havebeen revised
upward, but are not high enough to motivate treasuries to collect. Many environmental
agencies lack incentive to collect them, as they do not get a share of the resulting
revenue. Application and collection of fines are complex, subject to long delays, and
often not effective.

3.27     Economic (market-based) instruments are few and have been applied more in
order to raise revenues. Instruments to influence behavior are rare and only recently
employed. The same i s true for market creation instruments, such as tradable permits.

3.28     As examples of economic instruments (related to forestry) there are (i)            a
reforestation fee charged on volume of timber exploited, to be paid in lieu of actual
reforestation by owners (which i s their first option), but the revenues are rarely used for
that purpose; and (ii)     a forestry tax inthe state of Minas Gerais, applied on forest
products consumed by industry, which finances the state's forest agency and has created
incentives for reforestationand substitution o f traditional fuels by charcoal.

3.29     Environmental criteria have been introduced, inseveral states, into the rules of
sharing state sales tax revenues among municipalities (ICMSEcoldgico). Inaddition to
criteria such as sale levels, population and agricultural land area, the percentage of areas
under conservation in a municipality, sanitation coverage and social parameters have
been added insome states. Nine states have already established some kindo f "ICMS
Ecoldgico" and four states are currently discussing or introducing similar legislation. The
instrument has created significant incentives for local governments to promote
conservation. Ina similar vein, federal revenues earmarked for transfer to the states
(Fundo de Participa@o dos Estados - FPE)could -but currently do not - incorporate
environmental parameters as incentive to states to improve environmental management.
Another example o f economic instruments i s the entitlement o f firms that use recycled
plastic material to a rebate of 15 percent of the tax on industrial products (law of 2002).

3.30     Water charge i s an economic instrument recently introduced as part of the new
water resource management system. The legislation recognizes water as an economic
good, to be charged for to achieve efficient allocation and raise resources for basin water
resource management. River basin management councils are free to set prices, but must



l9 IBAMA, at the federal level, handles no more than 1%of licenses, which are often for large
infrastructure (roads, ports, energy) projects.



                                                 18

follow general principles including investment and rationing targets2'. A recent law has
made it possible for ANA to delegate authority to basin committees and to assign water
charge revenues to basin agencies.

3.31 In 1995,the federal government initiated the introduction of environmental
considerations inthe appraisal and concession of credit by public banks (Protocolo
Verde). Ithas hardly been implemented, but government is now intent on reviving it. A
working group has been established to implement and improve the Protocolo Verde.

3.32      Replenishment of natural resources and investments in sustainable development
activities (such as tree planting, agroforestry and extractive use of forests) are receiving
some support through public credit. Obstacles to widespread credit use are the lack o f
specialized extension services to guide economic agents in such investments, and the still
inadequate maturity of credit inrelation to long forestry production cycles21.

3.33      Tradable permits are virtually unused inBrazil. The Forest Code allows for
trading o f mandatory forest "legal reserves" obligations among land owners, which could
reduce the overall opportunity cost of conservation, but this has hardly been
implemented. There i s substantial interest, however, of the private sector inbenefiting
from international trade with carbon credits. A first PCF-funded project22(substitution of
mineral coal by charcoal inpig iron production) i s under implementation while a
second23(municipal land fills) i s just starting. Other future projects may include
cogeneration usingsugar cane bagasseor wood residues, wind farms, forestry projects,
biodigestors inthe livestock industry etc.

Monitoring

3.34      States are responsible for monitoring industrial sources of pollution. Except in
the South and Southeast, systematic monitoring i s rare. Since environmental officers can
be prosecuted for failure to act, denouncing i s common, but not always for the most
pressing problems. Public prosecutors have also been imposing a monitoring burden on
environmental agencies. Few major cities with acute air pollution have systematic air
quality monitoring. Public perception (visual changes, smell, fish mortality, human
health impacts) frequently triggers denouncement.



2o A first experience is the interstate committee of the Paraiba do Sul River basin where charges were
introduced in 2003. Starting levels for irrigation use, industries, water supply and sanitation are still low,
owing to uncertainties on economic costs and benefits of the new system, and to political feasibility.

21 Perhaps due to lack of experience, institutional credit for sustainable management of native forests,
conditioned on "certification" of the operation, is still rare, A massive subsidy scheme for forest plantations
ended in 1986. Most plantations established under that scheme have since reached the end of their useful
life, and are not being replaced sufficiently. There i s thus the threat of a shortage of domestic wood supply,
which has already led to wood imports in2003.

22 PLANTAR Project (P078571) in the State of Minas Gerais

L5 Nova Gerar inthe State of Rio de Janeiro (P079182)



                                                    19

3.35    Inthe case of water quality, sampling has increased. Collection and analysis of
water samples for organic matter, bacteria, metals and salinity are highly decentralized.
Rainfall and stream discharge are monitoredthrough the National Hydro-Meteorological
MonitoringNetwork and networks of other agencies.

3.36    Monitoring of "green issues" i s improving. Inpartnership with the National Space
Research Institute (INPE), IBAMA operates a state-of-the-art system, initially funded
from a Bank loan, to identify fire spots inBrazil, especially the Amazon region, inreal
time, and INPEmaps and publishes annually the occurrence of deforestationinthe
Amazon (the largest such forest monitoring exercise inthe world, based on satellite
imagery). Except inMato Grosso, which has a more advanced (although not yet fully
effective) land use control system, information i s not being cross-referenced with the
location o f properties and authorizations for land clearing. Rapid, real-time response to
control forest fires, stop illegal burningor deforestation, once identified, remains rare.

Financing Mechanismsand Budget

3.37    Expenditures on environmental management have always represented a small
proportion of government budgets. At the federal level expenditures by the Ministry o f
Environment were on average less than 0.2 percent inthe last five years (see Annex
VIII).

3.38    Federal expenditures have regularly been cut severely from original budget
allocations over the last decade (see Annex VIII). Apart from budget cuts, delays in
budget and expenditure authorizations and releases without a reliable schedule have
caused severe instability and a deep effect on performance, recognized inthe Evaluation
Performance of the Multi-Year Plan (PPA) for 2001 and 2002 as the main constraint for
successful program implementation.

3.39    IBAMAcharges fees for licensing, park entrance and concessions; it has recently
introduced new fee criteria and promoted the concession o f services inparks. These
sources represented inrecent years the equivalent of some 13 percent o f the MMA
budget. They are not assigned to MMA or IBAMA, but are pooled with general
government revenues. Some states transfer revenues from environmental fees, fines and
royalties to a fund for environmental management. Royalties from hydroelectricity and
oil extraction are also allocatedto federal, state and in some cases municipal funds and
budgets.

Staffing and Salaries

3.40    Staffing and salaries are severe constraints for MMA and IBAMA. Between 1997
and 2002, the number of staff inMMA droppedby 30 percent, as against only 15 percent
inthe federal government as a whole. MMAhas a share of only about 1.3 percent of all
federal staff. The salary structure also lags behind most other federal agencies by about
30 percent. The gap i s particularly highfor personnel with monitoring and surveillance
duties at IBAMA when compared to similar duties in other agencies. MMA has few
"own" staff, and no comprehensive career plan yet. Its personnel stems from various



                                            20

current and former agencies, with diverse backgrounds and different levels of
understanding of environmental matter, or has been hired through UNDPor FAO. While
external funds cannot be used to finance civil servants salaries, they could, untilrecently,
be usedfor (UNDP) consultant assignments. Such temporary employment has affected
the sustainability of human resources and institutional capacity. Hiringthrough
international organizations i s now only allowed for genuine, short-term consulting needs,
not for filling genuine government functions.

3.41     The federal government has recently taken steps to improve the situation. In2003,
both MMA and IBAMA carried out a competitive selection processes to hire more than
one thousand fixed-term employees to replace those hired through the UNDPcontracts
and to complement their permanent staff. Career streams for professionalenvironmental
managers and environmental analysts24were created, but more such positions have to be
filled. IBAMA and MMA are defining a new organization chart, and a recent law created
the public career of environmental specialist.

                                   C. MAJOR     RECENT    ADVANCES

3.42     There have been many substantial achievements inenvironmental policy reform
over the last five to ten years. Some of the more recent achievements are counted as
conditions of Boardpresentation for the proposedfirst loan, as detailed further inChapter
4.

3.43     EnvironmentalCrime Law. The Constitution of 1988 provides for liability of
companies for environmental damages, allowing the prosecution of polluters as criminals,
and allows anyone to prosecute environmental violators and government staff failing to
enforce the law. The Environmental Crime Law (1998) regulates liability and imposes
heavy monetary and prison penalties25.Special prosecutors handle environmental matters
at federal, state and municipal levels.

3.44     PublicParticipation. With the democratization of the country, various
mechanisms promoting public participation and awareness were introduced into the
environmental system. Inaddition to action by the bbMiniste`rioPLibZico", there are class
actions, popular actions and public hearings (typically inthe process of licenses and
environmental impact assessments). Effective public participation inthe licensing
process i s also gradually improving. The public i s represented inCONAMA through
civil society and private sector organizations. Specialists and academia participate, in
most cases, inthe preparation of norms and regulations.

3.45     Access to Information. A law of 2003 mandates the public sector to give access
to documents and administrative processes dealing with environmental matters, and to


24 IBAMA increasedthe number of its environmental analystsfrom 7 to 72 from 2002 to 2003; still, the
number of license issuedin2003 fell from the level of 2002.

25 The Law made it possible to fine PETROBRAS, the largestBrazilian Company, by R$50 million in
2001 for amajor oil spill in addition to paymentsfor cleanup and compensations.



                                                 21

disclose information on environmental quality, policies, plans and programs with
environmental impacts, monitoring data, accidents and risks, pollution, toxic and
hazardous material, biodiversity and genetically modified organisms (GMO). IBAMA
and MMA intend to publishall information via internet. This requires implementation
design and operation of a system with information not only on each process and
corresponding government actions, but also including all kindof environmental data for
consultation.

3.46    Private Sector Participation and Transparency. Mechanisms have been put in
place to involve the private sector more directly in environmental management. Beyond
private sector presence in CONAMA, direct collaboration with polluters, such as self-
auditing and self-reporting schemes, direct negotiation inthe licensingprocess, and
consultations inthe elaboration of norms and standards are becoming more frequent.

3.47    Licensing. CONAMA has streamlined many aspects of the environmental
licensing system. Activities are to be licensednow by only one level (federal, state or
municipal agency), minimizing multiple licenses for one project. It also established a six-
month limit for an environmental agency to grant or deny a license, extendable to one
year when environmental impact assessment are required. Municipalities are interested
ingetting involvedinlicensing. Recently, the federal Council for Economic and Social
Development (CDES) dedicated an entire meeting to discuss the licensing o f large
infrastructure projects, chairedb y the Ministers for CDES and Environment and attended
by highlevel staff of government, CONAMA, IBAMA, NGOs, states, municipalities,
academia, etc.

3.48    Recently, legal mechanisms for the establishment of tripartite commissions to
discuss and agree on regulations clarifying the responsibilities of each tier (federal, state
and municipal) and environmental management, with emphasis on licensing processes,
have been created. Fifteen state committees were recently created and the remaining
committees would be established duringthe implementation of the EnvPRL.

3.49    The National EnvironmentalFund (FNMA) was created in 1989 and i s inpart
financed b y IDB. It contributes to the implementation of the National Environmental
Policy. FNMA concentrates on eight areas: forestry extension, management o f protected
areas, sustainable management of fauna and flora, sustainable fishery, environmental
education, sustainable development inthe Amazon, environmental quality and solid
waste management.

3.50    Forest Management. The federal government established in 2000 the National
Forestry Program (PNF), to promote the sustainable use of native and planted forests,
reforestation, recovery of degraded forest areas, economic activities of forest dwellers,
prevention of illegal deforestation andpredatory exploitation of forest products, use o f
public production forests, development of forest-based industries, expansion of domestic
and export markets, and enhanced environmental, socio-economic benefits offered by
forests. MMA i s responsible for the planning and implementation of the PNF (the latter
by MMA or other agencies). A Bank loan to support the implementation of PNFis under
preparation. The Program includes time-bound targets, such as the sustainable



                                           22

management of 15 million ha of native forests (public and private) and the establishment
of private plantations (eucalyptus and pine) of 400,000 ha per year. Private exploitation
of public forests requires a law governing competitively awarded concessions, a draft of
which i s being discussed. A draft law will be submitted to the President's Office (Casa
Civil)as a condition of the proposed loan. The law is to be approved by Congress during
the period of the first proposed loan.

3.5 1 The current government has updated the program and created the Coordinating
Committee o f PNF (CONAFLOR) with members from ministries, states, private sector,
academia and NGOs.

3.52      GOB has also increased the scrutiny and enforcement of authorized forest
management plans and stepped up control over illegal logging, particularly inthe
Amazon26.

3.53      Biodiversity Conservation. The Federal Constitution declared certain biomes as
national heritage and required specific legislationfor their exploitation. After eight years
of intense debate inthe National Congress, a law that regulates and implements the
National System of ConservationUnits (SNUC) was approved in 2000 and regulated in
2002. Federalprotected areas have been expanded by 26,5 percent over the last four
years (see Annex IV). Other recent advances include:

          0  The Chamber of Deputies of the Congress approved a law on the Atlantic
              RainForest and establishment of a working group to prepare an Atlantic
             Forest Program.
             A draft billabout genetically modified organisms andbio-safety regulations
             has been approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
          0   The Amazon Protected Areas Program (ARPA) was launched. This program,
              funded by GEF, WWF and the German government, aims at putting 10
              percent o f Amazon forest under strict protection and creating 9 million ha of
              sustainable development protection areas27.

3.54      Amazon Conservation and SustainableDevelopment. Brazil has implemented,
largely successfully, the first phase of the RainForest Pilot Program, funded by the G-7,
the European Union and the Netherlands, as a model for international cooperation on
priority environmental issues. Discussions on a second phase are underway, but are
awaiting the final draft of a new national Program for a Sustainable Amazon (PAS),
being prepared b y an inter-ministerial working group and signing of a formal agreement
by the President andregional governors concerning endorsement and implementation of
the PAS.



26 One single operation in Par6resulted in lawsuits against 182 logging companies which allegedly cut over
3 million trees illegally.

27 Brazil was among the first countries to offer such contribution to the World Bank-WWF "Forests for
Life" alliance.



                                                   23

3.55     Inthe wake of the sharpincrease of deforestation in2002, anofficialinter-
ministerial Working Group (involving 14 ministries) issued a report inMarch 2004
recommeqding 149 activities to curb deforestation to be carried out by different agencies.
The recommendations have already been approvedby the highest level of government
and their implementation has been launched. Among others, the recommendations
include actions to deal with the urgent issue of land regularization2', titling and
registrationinrural areas of the Amazon, a sine-qua non condition of effective control
over deforestation.

3.56     One of the currently most critical areas threatened by uncontrolled deforestation
are those along the federal highway BR-163 from Cuiabk (inMato Grosso State) and
Santarkm (inPark state), particularly its as yet unpavedportion inPark. The paving o f
that portion has for some time been included inthe federal Multi-Year Plan, and i s
awaited by soybean growers inthe region (mainly Mato Grosso) and by settlers along the
road who anticipatedthe paving. Clear felling andburningof mainly public landhave
sharply increased along the road over recent years, without any effective government
control. An inter-ministerial working group is preparing a plan for concerted
governmental action towards sustainable development inthe BR-163 corridor (including
zoning, creation of conservation areas, land tenure clarification, enforcement actions,
etc.). This plan needs to be officially endorsed and launched.

3.57     The sophisticated integrated Amazon Surveillance System (SIPAM/SIVAM) has
come into operation in 2002 and i s expected to contribute substantially to information
about developments inthe Amazon and to real-time control of economic activities.

3.58     Regulation of Chemicals. CONAMA has approved a resolution in 2002 related
to products used for cleanup of environmental accidents and another resolution in2003
defining the procedures for the licensing of sites to receive agrochemical containers and
packaging. In2003, the National Commission for Chemical Safety (CONASQ) was
created with the responsibility, inter alia, of developing a National Program for
Chemical Safety. A national profile of Chemicals Management was published in 2003 as
a first complete manual on handling, usage, import and export of all chemical substances
inBrazil. A program of PreventionandQuick Responseto Emergencies with Hazardous
Chemicals (P2R2) has been and approved by MMA and state environmental agencies.
Brazil has also ratified the Rotterdamand Stockholm Protocols referring to the trade o f
hazardous chemicals and the ban of persistent organic pollutants.

3.59     Brazil has ratified the Kyoto Protocol on global climate change in 2002, as the
83rd country, and created a national authority on climate change and the Clean
Development Mechanism29. Brazil i s prepared to take a leading role inthe emerging
carbon finance market because of the capacity o f government and the private sector to



28 Particularly the determination of what i s public land.

29 Policy action and reform related to global climate change and the Clean development Mechanism i s
included under the First Programmatic Loan to Brazil for Sustainable and Equitable Growth.



                                                    24

develop carbon-projects. Brazilhas ample opportunities to participate incarbon trading
already before the Kyoto Protocol's ratification and once the Protocol is inforce.

3.60    Water ResourcesManagement. Inthe context of the new Water Law (1997),
the National Water Agency (ANA) was created in 2000 with the objective o f
implementing the National Water Resources Policy and coordinating the National Water
Resources Management System. Among the more substantive achievements are:

            The integration of quantity and quality parameters into a single decision
            criterion for pricing and licensingpurposes (making pollution a key parameter
            for firms internalizing the external costs they generate), and allocation of
            water rights based on the opportunity cost of water;
            Strengthening and creation of major basin committees and preparation of
            basin management plans, such as for the Puralba do SuZ and the SLio
            Francisco river basins, among others. Congress approved a law allowing the
            transfer o f water charge revenues to basin agencies;
            ANA established a National Information System onWater Resources and          S
            preparing a National Water Resources Plan.
        0   Better targeting of federal programs, such as PROAGUA, with clear critei a
            and based on competitive requirements; and
        0   The federal PRODES program reimburses municipalities for actual sewerage
            treated, as opposed to funding infrastructure such as treatment plants and
            connections.

  D. GOVERNMENT       PROGRAM-ENVIRONMENTAL           REFORMAGENDA(PPA 2004-2007)

3.61    The environmental reform agenda o f the current administration i s embedded in
the federal government's Multi-Year Plan (PPA) spanning the four years from 2004 to
2007. The environmental agenda has the following priorities:
        0   Improving the environmental management system;
            Implementing priority programs, such as those related to protected areas,
            forestry, water basin management and sustainable Amazon; and
        0   Mainstreamingo f environmental sustainability acrosssectors and ministries.

3.62    Soon after its inauguration, the current administration initiated a participatory
process to define the PPA. For the first time, meetings were held in all 27 states with
active participation of more than 2,000 NGOs to discuss GOB'S proposal. The result o f
this participatory planning process is the 2004-2007 PPA, which includes mechanisms for
its periodical revision in consultation with civil society. The overall projectedbudget for
the four-year period i s presented inFigure 3.1.




                                            25

             I          /                                                      I
               200.0

               150.0


               100.0

                50.0

                  0.0
                          2004        2005        2006        2007             //
  Figure 3.1: Projected Federal Budget for the 2004- 2007 period (inUS$ billion)

3.63    The PPA i s organized aroundthree "Mega-objectives" with a total of 27 thematic
agendas. Figure 3.2 presents the budget distribution among the different Mega-
objectives. They are:


        I -   Social inclusion and reduction of social inequality. This i s the largest
              Mega-objective representing56 percent o f the overall budget. It comprises
              the health, education, social security, housing, and sanitation sectors.
              However, about 70 percent of its budget i s allocated to the social security
              sector.

        I1-   Environmental sustainable growth to increase income andjobs and to
              decrease regionalinequalities. This Mega-objective represents 33
              percent of the overall federal budget. It comprises the infrastructure,
              production, agrarian, information andknowledge, and environment . The
              resources allocated to the Environment Ministry represents 0.3 percent of
              the budget of this Mega-objective.

        I11 - Promotion andexpansion of the citizenship andstrengthening
              democracy. This Mega-objective represents about 10 percent of the
              overall federal budget. It comprises general management, armed forces,
              foreign affairs, public security andjustice, humanrights, and sports.




                                          26

                                   063




                       202                                       0342




             Figure 3.2: Distributionof the OverallFederalBudgetamong
                           MegaObjectivesfor 2004-2007(inUS$ billions)

3.64    President Lula, in a message to Congress presenting his administration's program,
stated that "the goal of the current administration is, on one hand, to give strategic
relevance to the environmental agenda inthe national development plan, and, on the
other hand, to assure the environmental sustainability o f the productive sector and
environmental quality to the population." Therefore, environment received a special
consideration inthe preparation of the PPA. The environmental sustainability agenda i s
considered as major guideline for the planning of different policies and programs
included inthe PPA. Due to the organizational structure of the government, several major
programs relevant to environmental sustainability are treated separately inthe PPA, for
example:

            PROINFA. Coordinatedby the Ministry of Miningand Energy (MME),this
            program aims at promoting the use of sustainable alterative sources o f
            energy, such as wind and biomass. MMA assisted inthe design of this
            program and BNDES created a special line of credit to financing this sector.
            Fundsare allocated to the MMEinthe PPA.

            PROAGUA.Coordinatedby the Ministry of National Integration (MI)and
            the MMA. This program aims at expanding the water supply and improving
            water quality incritical areas of the semi-arid Northeast. The MMA (through
            the National Water Agency - ANA) coordinates the component on water
            resources management and development of plans and studies working inclose
            collaboration with the MI,which i s responsible for the infrastructure
            implementation. Funds are allocated to the MIandMMA inthe PPA.

            LandTenure (ReordenamentoAgrdrio). Coordinatedby the Ministry of
            Agrarian Development (MDA), this program aims at the regularization of land
            tenure inall public and private land, including Protected Areas and
            Indigenous Reserves. Land identified as still under government domain i s



                                           27

             offered to other agencies such as IBAMA. The Mountains of Tumucumaque
             NationalPark, with 3.8 millionha (partof the ARPA Program), was created
             solely on landrepossessedby MDA. The National Forest Programof MMA
             also depends on MDA's program to achieve its ambitious goal of promoting
             forest management inthe Amazon. Funds are allocated to MDA inthe PPA.

3.65    GOB'Semphasis on the integration of the environmental agenda of its core
planning process and on the cross-sectoral aspects of environmental sustainability
(transversality) are the mainreasonsfor the inclusion of other sectoral ministries inthe
proposed Environmental PRL. Almost every ministryhas a program that interfaces with
the environmental agenda. Thus, the allocation of funds to MMA programs leverages far
more programmatic impact on the environmental sustainability agenda than MMA's
budget would indicate.

3.66    The MMA budget of US$462 million (see Table 3.2) i s divided inthree major
groups following this administration's view of environmental sustainability as one of the
pillars of its long-term program:

        0    Improvingthe environmental management system:The goal i s to improve
             and supplement command and control systems to increaseeffectiveness and
             lessen bureaucracy. The main programs that contribute to this goal are:
             Management of Environmental Policy, and Management of Water Policy.
             Other programs include minor command-and-control actions. Together, these
             represent about one third of the overall MMA budget inthe PPA.

        0    Programimplementation. The goal i s to implement a set of programs
             directly under the responsibility of MMA as defined by law. Following this
             administration's efforts to go beyond the traditional agenda of command-and-
             control and protection of biodiversity, this set of programs demonstrates an
             effort to find abalance between (i)    protection and use of natural resources,
             and (ii)the brown, blue and green agendas. An example of the former i s the
             "Protected Areas of Brazil" programwhich manages the park system and the
             "National Forestry Program (NFP)" aimed at developing forestry innatural
             areas and plantations. Inan effort to establish a balance, five of the twenty-
             five programs focus on the blue agenda, six on the green agenda and three on
             the brown agenda. Together, these programs represent about half of MMA's
             budget inthe PPA.

        0    Leveraging other sectoral programs. The goal i s to ensure MMA's strategic
             participation inprograms coordinated by other ministries. Insome case this
             participation i s restricted to assistance inpolicy design. This participationi s
             often coupled with the development of pilot projects and studies which
             provide inputs to policies and programs designed by other ministries. This i s
             the most significant change in approach towards the environmental agenda
             presentedby the current administration. The set of programs represents less 20
             percent of the overall MMA budget inthe PPA. However, their impact would
             far exceedthis allocation. Inorder to ensure along-terminstitutional


                                               28

             framework, MMA has established, or i s inthe process of establishing,
             cooperation agreements with other ministries defining the common agenda
             and how MMA's input will be provided to and used by the other ministries.
             Examples are "Sustainable Amazon" and "Revitalization of the S6o Francisco
             Basin" programs, which are government-wide programs coordinatedb y MI.
             The MMA has similar programs inits own budget to ensure its strategic
             participation inthe overall process.

 3.67    The three program groups included inthe MMA budget of the PPA support a
 solid and balancedenvironmental agenda within the current management capacity of
 government. The challenge i s to ensure that these programs are fully funded as proposed.
 This administration spared the MMAfrom major budget cuts in2003. However,
 considering that 16 of the 25 MMA programs (mainly those that leverage other sectors)
 have budget allocations of less than US$4 million per year, any cuts will seriously affect
 MMA'scapacity to deliver strong results (See Annex IXfor details on the MMA
 Program).

 Table 3.2: Ministry of Environment'sProgramsIncludedinthe 2004-2007PPA
 MA Programs                                                           PPA 2004- 2007      I
                                                                            (USS)
Management of the Environmental Policy                                    $57,900,470
ISustainableAmazon                                                        ---,-_ .
                                                                                _,-,
botect Areas of Brazil                                                    $36,004,067      I



                                                                          $14,224,978




c
Sustainable developmentof the Pantanal                                     S7,583,254
   ological-Economical Zoning                                              $73 11,254
                                                                           $7,194,897
k cotourism                                                                $6,943,07 7     II
Conservationand sustainableUse of the Genetic Resources                    S6,768,646
  genda 21                                                                 $5,822,93 I



 TOTAL                                                                    $461,952,048     I

                                              29

                  E. FUTURE     IMPROVEMENTS        TO ENVIRONMENTAL         POLICY

3.68    Brazil's national environmental management system has developed significantly
since its creation in 1981, not only inits legal basis and institutions, but also by being
recognized by economic agents and the population at large as an important element of
overall government policy and the country's development. The proposed loan recognizes
these substantial achievements. Yet there remains a gap between policies and results on
the ground. Improvements that would reduce this gap can be summarized under the
following six major headings:

        0    longer-term strategic planning and priority setting;
        0    consolidation of SISNAMA;
        0    flexibility, efficiency and effectiveness of the licensing system;
        0    institutional capacity;
        0    public information and social control; and
        0    mainstreaming o f environmental policies.

Longer-term strategicplanning andpriority setting


3.69    The range of existing environment-related programs of MMA i s too broad inlight
of existing capacity, and priorities have not been made explicit and pursued
systematically, inspite of an attempt by CONAMA in 1996 to define such priorities.
Since CONAMA's agenda i s mostly dictated by MMA,and since MMA shares
responsibility over "brown" issues with other ministries3', while the green agenda i s more
inits own domain, MMAhas acertainbias towards "green" issues rather than pollution
issues, Lack of information, political pressures to cover all areas, and failure to involve
the relevant stakeholders hold back a consensus on priorities.

3.70    Given the pressingfiscal situation, there i s a need to define realistic goals,
priorities and focus on selected interventions, ideally not only b y government and its
environmental management but with involvement of the public. Given the diversity of
ecosystems and social conditions, priorities shouldbe defined at a convenient and
appropriate level (region, ecosystem, political boundaries), taking into account social
costs as well as equity considerations.

Consolidationof SISNAMA

3.71    The basic elements of the National Environment System (SISNAMA) are in
place, but the system i s not yet consolidatedand consistent, leading to gaps, overlaps and
confusion of responsibilities among the three tiers of government. Institutional
assignments are somewhat unclear. Though the Constitution's Article 23 establishes
concurrent responsibility over several environmental matters, a.requiredcomplementary
law specifying the attributions of the three tiers of government has not yet been passed.


30 The national brown agenda is strongly influenced by the more urgent needs of the State of SBo Paulo.



                                                 30

Formal or informal agreements between agencies of different tiers often fail to be
implemented. Many state agencies do not have the institutional capacity to deal with their
responsibilities. Hence, IBAMA, due to its supplementary role, needs to be present in
every state and to tackle a broad and diverse agenda.

3.72     IBAMA continues to set norms, andMMA is not yet technically fully staffed to
take over regulatory functions. The creation of tripartite committees ineach state to
address integration, coordination and consistency o f responsibilities, rules and procedures
on licensing will be an important step to further consolidation of the system.

Flexibility, Efficiency and Effectiveness


3.73     Environmental management inBrazilrelies much on the licensing system, which
i s firm and consolidated. The system has, however, several shortcomings (see Annex VI1
for detail) that affect its effectiveness andthe balance between environmental and
economic growth, such as:

         0   The licensing process i s not well linked to environmental targets, and needs to
             be complementedby economic incentives and other instruments, such as
             voluntary agreements.
         0   A tendency to regardthe primaryfunction of the State as exerting police
             power, even though the capacity to do so i s low. More flexibility would allow
             to keep up with the challenges of an evolving economy and may increase the
             chances of effective compliance. Cooperation and negotiation with
             stakeholders remains limited, and the decision-making process lacks
             objectivity and transparency. The system could greatly improve its capacity if
             it worked with, not against, the private sector.
         0   Environmental licensing typically occurs after other required licenses (e.g. for
             energy investments) have already been granted. It should be moved
             "upstream" inthe entire governmental licensing and planning process.
         0   The scope of the impact assessmentsbefore granting a license to large
             infrastructure projects does not include regional (as opposed to local) project
             impacts (such as of highways, waterways, large hydropower schemes, etc.);
         0   Norms defined by CONAMA have national validity, but are often approved
             with scant involvement of poorer states. They may too stringent for some
             states or may exceed their capacity to enforce them.
         0   There i s insufficient follow-up on compliance after a license has been granted.
         0   The transaction costs of environmental licensing of infrastructure are
             excessively highand can be reduced by rationalizing the process.

3.74     Chargingfor natural resource use and pollution, through taxes, fees or royalties,
could shift the tax burden from the use of capital and labor to the pollution and depletion
of natural resources. Economic instruments are often more efficient to achieve
environmental goals than permits that define quantities and technologies, which still form
the bulk o f environmental management instruments. Similarly, certain investments into
the replenishment or recuperationof natural resources would be socially desirable, but


                                             31

are not undertakenby economic agents as they do not reap the social benefits or because
benefits accrue very late on the time horizon. Certain subsidies and credit incentives, for
instance inthe case of restoration of forest cover incritical areas, may be appropriate
where the market fails to account for social benefits.

Institutional Capacity

3.75     Under government's stringent budget management, hiringnew personnel at the
federal and state levels has been rare inthe last ten years. For a "new" and dynamic
concern such as the environment, this has hindered better understanding of problems,
incorporation of knowledge and experience from other countries, and maintaining staff
up-to-date on effective and efficient management techniques. Due to the level and
structure of salaries, unrelated to performance, due to the right of civil servants to
"stability" of employment, and resource constraints, training has not been sufficiently
effective. MMA has few own staff, and no clearly established career plan and associated
salaries. This resulted injob rotation, job insecurity, little accumulation of experience
and lack of institutional memory and continuity. Inthe states, fiscal crises have also led
to acute deterioration of institutional capacity.

3.76     At the same time, with the increasingawareness of the needfor environmental
protection, agencies accumulated more and more responsibilities and attributions. While
MMAis already strained with regardto itsfunctions as leader of SISNAMA, andthe
formulation of policies and regulations, it has traditionally also taken over the
implementation of programs related not only to environmental management but to
sustainable development itself (usually with externally funded UNDP staff). Such
implementation could well be assigned to external agencies or organizations, leaving
MMA only with general directionandoversight.

3.77     Institutional capacity remains limited as a result of poor renovation of staff; a new
generation of environmental specialists has barely had the opportunity to participate in
the resource-constrained federal administration. A comprehensive human resources
management program needs to be established for continued, sustainable capacity
building.

3.78     IBAMA has suffered since its creation in 1989from a series of difficulties,
stemming from changing federal administrations, internal organization issues and
shortage of human and financial resources. IBAMA was formed by merging four
agencies and inherited their staff and institutional problems. Difficulties were
compoundedby frequent changes of top managers and policy directives. Moreover,
IBAMAcontinues to be involvedinthe definition of norms, rather than as an
implementing agency under the directives to MMA, also inits function as link with most
states. There have been proposals to break up IBAMA and to create more autonomous
and flexible agencies for forestry, biodiversity conservation and fisheries.




                                            32

Information and Accountability

3.79    While mechanisms exist for involving the public and the private sector in
environmental management, public confidence inthe system i s low, particularly
regarding enforcement. Excessive discretion of inspectors coupled with low salaries, in a
context o f poor coordination between tiers of government and unclear legal
responsibilities, have underminedpublic confidence inthe environmental system,
although this i s not unique to environmental management.

3.80    Often it i s unclear to the public what each agency i s supposed to deliver. Inside
the agencies there i s often great lack o f coordination between policy and planning
divisions with enforcement divisions, andpoor system of checks and balances, rendering
private agents confused and opening major opportunities for arbitrary decisions by
enforcement agencies. The poor flow of information further contributes to limited
accountability, particularly by enforcement agencies. Information i s missingboth to
private agents, as well as to vulnerable populations, such as the urban poor, who may be
at the greatest risk and most likely to benefit from good environmental policy.

3.81    There i s limitedexperience ininvolving interested stakeholders inthe decision-
makingprocesses inenvironmental management. More transparency andpartnershipis
required so that all segments of society can exert control over the government's
performance. More active and participatory involvement of NGOs is, however, slowly
breaking the resistance o f government agencies who are learning to work inpartnership,
butfurther progress couldbe made inpartnering with industries, as well as with affected
communities, particularly with less advantaged groups.

Mainstreaming of Environmental Policies

3.82    One o f the most urgent changes requiredinthe Brazilian environmental
management system i s the "mainstreaming" of environmental concerns in and with other
sectors. There i s little coordination betweenthe various ministries involved in
environmental issues, such as Environment, Energy and Mining, Integration, Cities and
Planning. This leads to the current "watchdog approach" by environmental agencies often
creating confrontations with sector ministries. The poor integration o f environmental
with sectoral andmacroeconomic policies causes environmental aspects to be neglected
or considered too late inproject planning and sector policy design. Environmental
decisions usually come after economic decisions. Inmany parts of government
resistance remains to incorporating such matters inthe planning of core economic and
sector decisions.

3.83    Promoting integration of sectoral policies and of overall government planning (as
inthe case of the federal Multi-Year Plan-PPA) with a view towards environmental
sustainability may be the single most important short-term initiative which environmental
agencies at all levels inBrazil can pursue. The current federal administration i s well
aware of this need for "transversality" (as it i s called inBrazil) o f environmental
concerns. Selected actions involving six ministries and various "sectors" o f the federal
government are included as conditions of the proposedloan (see Chapter 4).



                                             33

    4. The ProgrammaticFrameworkandthe ProposedLoan
                                           Program
                      A. OBJECTIVES, STRUCTUREAND JUSTIFICATION

4.1      Obiectives. The principal objective of the proposedprogram i s to support
Brazil's goal o f balancing economic growth with social development and the
maintenance and improvement of environmental quality. Specifically, the Program aims
at:

         0  increasing the effectiveness and efficiency o f Brazil's environmental
            management system inbalance with the objectives of sustainable economic
            growth, equity, and poverty reduction; and,

         0  makingthe environment and sustainable use of naturalresources a concern of
            all sectors of the economy and government ("mainstreaming").

4.2     The program would not only contribute directly to the quality of the environment
and the maintenance of natural resources, but it would also help reduce poverty and
achieve a higher quality of life for all Brazilians both directly and indirectly. A healthy
natural environment provides basic services inbothurban and rural areas in a sustainable
and efficient way (MDG7) and benefits the poor even more than the rest of society.
Sound environmental management will build on Brazil's comparative advantages in
natural resources while also conserving them. A more sustainable Brazil will be a source
of competitiveness and wealth for the future.

4.3      The EnvPRLwould complement existing programmatic approaches involving
both investment and capacity buildingin such key priority areas as: public sector
environmental management at the national and sub-national levels (NEP II),       soil
conservation and micro-basin management inthe south and southeast, water resource
management inthe northeast (PROAGUA, PROGERIRH, PGRH), biodiversity
conservation and forest management inthe Amazon (PPG7, ARPA, PROARCO, PNF,
etc.), and urban sanitation improvements, etc., with which the Bank and GOB'S other
partners (IDB, KfW, USAID, IFC, WWF, etc.) have been closely involved over the past
two decades. Together, this unique combination o f adjustment, investment, and
institutional-strengtheninglending represents one o f the most -- if not the most --
complete and comprehensive "packages" of Bank support for environmental
improvement and sustainable development anywhere inthe world.

4.4      The proposed EnvPRLi s justified on the following grounds:

         0  The EnvPRL recognizes and supports the sound overall economic
            management of the current federal administration. GOB i s effectively
            addressing the challenges of macro-economic vulnerability, fiscal constraints
            and social deficits. Financing provided under the EnvPRLwould help Brazil
            meet its external financing requirements.




                                            34

         0   The EnvPRL recognizes the clear commitment of GOB to implement a model
             o f sustainable development, maintaining and improving existing initiatives. It
             recognizes the intention to improve the effectiveness and flexibility of the
             EMS and recent advances inenvironmental legislation. It also acknowledges
             GOB'Sstrong interest inmakingenvironment and sustainability a crosscutting
             concern for all sectors of government and the economy. Itbuilds on an
             increasingpublic interest in and support for environmental policy reform.

         0   The EnvPRLrepresents an incentive for GOB to maintain and strengthen this
             course. It i s also an opportunity for the Ministry of Finance, which i s
             interested in quick-disbursing operations andhas demonstrated an openness to
             the integration of environmental objectives in adjustment operations.

         0   The EnvPRL seeks to implement one of the three central themes o f the CAS:
             a sustainable Brazil (recent programmatic reform loans have addressed other
             facets of the CAS). Policies to promote sustainability are probably those most
             inneedof support for reform.

         0   This is a politically opportune moment for the federal government to focus on
             the sustainability agenda, particularly after a first year of strict fiscal
             adjustment has passed, growth expectations are increasing, and the current
             phase inthe election cycle allows policy makers to concentrate on medium
             and long-term sustainability-relatedissues31, The fact that the Finance,
             Planning and a number o f sector ministries have coalesced with the Ministry
             of Environment in support of mainstreaming the environmental agenda i s a
             first. However, this politically opportune moment may pass, and some
             environmental indicators may deteriorate inthe absence of additional actions.

             Environmental awareness has vastly improved over the past ten years
             throughout all segments o f Brazilian society, and environmental concerns
             have become familiar topics inpolitical discussions, the news media and
             schools. Requirements for environmental compliance have become stricter
             than ever, and economic agents are increasingly aware o f their environmental
             responsibilities and their interest inhaving an environmental management
             system that i s more effective, transparent, andbased on clear rules. Bank
             programmatic support to the sustainability agenda would help strengthen
             public awareness and support for policy reforms.

                               B. PROGRAMCONTENTAND DESIGN

4.5      The EnvPRLi s based on the Government's Environmental ReformAgenda and
the PPA as summarized in Chapter 3 and described inmore detail inthe "Government
ProgramMatrix" (Annex 111). It i s supported by GOB'SLetter of Development Policy
(see Annex I>. The EnvPRLi s entirely inline with what the Bank considers key

31 There are municipal elections scheduled for October 2004, while federal and state government elections
will be held only in late 2006.



                                                 35

improvements inthe country's environmental management system and the thrust of the
CAS. It is, however, selective and includes reforms and activities that:

           0    address key bottlenecks to more effective and efficient environmental
                management;

                address specific environmental "liabilities" that are considered a priority by
                GOB and are primarilyunder federal responsibility or require federal action
                and leadership3'; and

           0    have been found to lend themselves (initially) more easily to the
                "mainstreaming" of the environmental agenda as they have already found the
                support and cooperation of sectoral ministries (Mines and Energy, Agrarian
                Development, National Integration, Cities, Tourism, and Finance)33; and

           0    can be implemented over the short to medium term.

4.6        Policy reforms and actions are divided into two main categories: the first i s
comprised of actions that are under the control or influence o f MMA - institutional
strengthening, consolidation of the National Environmental Management System
(particularly with regard to licensing, introduction of additional, more flexible
instruments, and more transparency and accountability), protected areas, forest
management, hazardous chemicals and the water resources management system.
Although MMA would take the lead, reforms will still require the collaboration of actors
outside of MMA, infederal, state and even municipal governments.

4.7         The second group of reforms aims at incorporating environmental concerns and
policies within specific economic sectors andministries ("mainstreaming").                             Initially, the
"sectors" and themes considered are: Amazon deforestation control, environmental
sustainable development inthe Amazon, environmental sanitation, regional land use and
development planning, fiscal and financial policies, energy, agrarian reform and tourism.
Other themes and issues may be introduced inthe subsequent phases of the EnvPRL.


32 I t is the states' rather than federal responsibility to address air pollution issues. I t i s therefore not
included underpriority reforms in this loan. Water pollution issues are, however, related to water resource
management and water supply and sanitation and are thus a federal concern, particularly through national
legislation and regulations. The transport sector is not a priority environmental concern in itself, except for
the broader impacts of major roads and waterways on regional land use. The latter are subject to national
planning decisions (PPA), zoning, and Strategic Environmental Assessments and, as such, are included in
the EnvPRL.

33 The agriculture and livestock sectors are obvious candidates for the mainstreaming of environmental
concerns, The Ministry of Agriculture has not yet joined the initial group of ministries working closely
with MMA, though it participates in some working groups (such as those dealing with deforestation, the
BR-163 corridor, and zoning). Although important determinants of agricultural development and its
environmental impact are not under Ministry of Agriculture purview, they are nevertheless addressed under
the EnvPRL, such as "green" official credit, soil degradation, zoning and regulation of agrochemical use
and transport (MMA).Irrigation is subject to water resource management (MMA)and i s dependent on
public funding (Ministry of Integration).



                                                        36

4.8     The EnvPRL Iwouldbe the first operation in a series of up to three loans over a
four-year periodpossibly totaling US$ 1.2 billion as shown inthe figure below:
   I     EnvPRLI            I         I   EnvPRLII            I
      Strengthen the national             Focuson major                    Consolidatereforms
      debate, engage core of              legislativeand                   from phasesI& 11;
      govemment,                          institutional reforms on:
      sub-nationalgovemments,                                              and,
                                               Environmental               Focusonthe
      civil societyand the                     licensing;                  implementationand
     private sector                            Economic                    developmentof a
      Sustainthe positive                      instruments                 vision for the future.
      agenda; and                              Institutional
                                               capacity
      Support importantreforms                 Water management
     inthe green, blueand                       andhazardous
     brown agendas.                            chemicals.




4.9     EnvPRL I, the amount of US$505.05 million, focuses on strengtheningthe
                        in
national debate, ensuring the continuation of the positive reforms by the current and
previous administrations, and launching initial steps towards the process of promoting
further reforms, includingthe design of policies and programs to be implemented later.
The secondloan, EnvPRL11,would focus on approving selectedkey reforms of the EMS
(including legislation, licensing, economic instruments and institutions) and of sectoral
policies such as the launching and implementation of the Sustainable Amazon Program
andthe NationalWater ResourcesPlan. The third loan, EnvPRL111,would focus on
implementing andconsolidating the reforms brought about under the first two loans. The
program would be flexible so that, dependingon the evaluation of the previous stages, it
canrespond to emerging needs andproblems.

4.10    The Programdoes not involve additional spendingover and above the
Government's Multi-Year Plan (PPA) 2004-2007, nor will it increasethe resources
available for environment-related spending. This loan will also support the
mainstreaming of environment inother sectors which will contribute to more effective
public expenditures.

4.11    Monitoring. The Program's progresstowards achieving its objectives would be
monitored according to an agreedset of indicators contained inthe Policy Matrix (see
Annex II- columns "Key Next Steps" and "Medium-Term Actions") which shows the
program's expected outputs. Triggers for the second andthird loans are also highlighted
inthe matrix. The Ministryof Finance andthe Ministry of Environment would ensure
the monitoringthrough aparticipatory processthat should involve civil society, including
the private sector. The technical assistanceloan will provide direct support for
monitoring and evaluation.

4.12    The Policy Matrix contains a number of actions that are to be taken inthe short
andmediumtermand are expectedto bring about greater environmental sustainability.



                                           37

Final impacts of these reforms on the environment itself, interms of natural resources
(clean water, undegraded soils and vegetation, functioning ecosystems, etc.) actually
conserved or restored, are hardly measurable over the relatively short course of the four-
year reform program. A system of more directly measurable indicators of outcomes -
consideredessential as a precondition for sustainability -has been proposed and included
inthe Policy Matrix (column 5). However, the country's system for monitoring
environmental quality has a number of weaknesses and a "Key Next Step" for the
proposed loan i s to improve that system. These initial indicators may therefore be
revised as a result of this proposed work.

4.13    Trigger Actions. Follow-up operations would provide an incentive for the GOB
to stay on the path of environmental policy reform. Approval of the second and third
loans would depend on the progress made duringthe preceding loan in accordance with a
pre-defined small set of milestones (triggers). As already proposedunder prior
programmatic operations for Brazil, these conditions may have to be evaluated with some
degree o f flexibility, e.g. the government's control over the approval o f legislation
(content and speedof law ratification) i s limited. The agreed trigger actions for the
second loan are:

             Brazil maintains an adequate macro-economic framework;

             A new institutional structure for MMA andIBAMA has been implemented,
             and a public selection process to fill 300 vacancies inMMA and 610 in
             IBAMA has been completed;

             The National Statistic System has been improved with the inclusion of
             environmental indicators for monitoring;

             The Program for the conservation o f the Atlantic Forest has been launched
             and i s being implemented;

             Ecological-Economic Zoning for the area of influence of the federal highway
             BR-163 has been further detailed;

             Major lines of action for the Sustainable Amazon Program (PAS) have been
             includedinthe proposed review of the 2004-2007 PPA;

             The Green Protocol and other financial instruments have been revised for
             more effective use by federal banks;

             The Strategic Environmental Assessment developed by the river basin has
             been applied to the proposed major new hydropower plants prioritized by
             MME,and

             Simplified procedures for the Environmental Licensing o f Agrarian
             Settlements have been established.




                                             38

4.14    Triggers for the third loan, apart from the maintenance o f a stable macro-
        economic framework, will most likely be drawn from the list of medium-term
        actions specified inAnnex 11, including:

             Rules for the decentralization of the environmental licensing procedures
             among the three levels of government have been established;

             The program for the conservation of the Cerrado (Brazil's savanna) has been
             launched and i s being implemented;

             A bulk water charge has been implemented inkey river basins;

             An action planfor the BR-163 region, based on the ZEE, has been
            implemented;

        0    Meso-regional development plans for the Amazon have been defined
            according to the strategic guidelines of PAS;

        0    A law to include environmental sustainability criteria intax regulations
             (particularly regarding the polluters-pay principle) has been submitted to
             Congress;

             The Strategic Environmental Assessment i s being applied inthe gas and oil
             sectors; and,

        0   All agrarian settlements implemented after 2003 havebeen established in
            compliance with the environmental legislation.

4.15    Co-financing. The German government34has expressed interest in supporting the
proposed EnvPRLwith a co-financing operation for an amount up to  40 million. A
possible German loan would focus primarily on supporting actions under the
government's reform programrelated to the control of Amazon deforestation and the
reorganizationof MMA. Due to time constraints for the processing of bi-lateral
agreements, such co-financing would most likely occur only within the context of a
second loan, as described inthe outline of the EnvPRLabove.

4.16    Technical Assistance Loan (TAL). The Bank has agreed with GOB35to prepare a
Technical Assistance Loanto support specific needs to strengthen the capacity of MMA
and other participating ministries closely involved with GOB'Senvironmental reform and
action program. Within the framework established by the GOB'Spolicies for fiscal

34KfW staff havebeenworking closely with the Bankteamduring preparation and appraisalmissionsand
are working on the preparation of their own adjustmentpackagewhich would support a part of the policy
agenda agreedupon betweenthe GOB and the Bank.

35A "Curtu Consultu" for the proposedTAL has been approvedby COFIEX on July 29th, 2004. This
confirms a strong support by Planning and Financeto the implementation of the technical assistance
program. The approval of the Curtu Consultuauthorizesthe Bank to prepare the project under the
coordination of the Ministry of Environment.



                                                 39

stability, the TAL would provide additional resources to MMA that would supplement
those already included under the PPA (see Chapter 3). The capacity-building needs were
identified in systematic, participatory self-assessment sessions with the various
secretariats and departments of MMA and with the six other cooperating ministries. A
specific component of the TAL would be to strengthenthe capacity of the Ministries o f
Finance and Environment to enable them to monitor the indicators of the EnvPRLand
manage it for results. The loan would be of a magnitude of up to US$ 10million, and i s
expected to be submitted to the Boardfor consideration inDecember 2004. The German
government has also expressed strong interest in supportingthe TAL.


                                  C. ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

4.17     The program has a solid foundation, stemming from a body of analytical work
carried out over the past two decades by the GOB, the Bank, bilateral institutions (KfW,
USAID, DFID, etc.), the IDB, Brazilian andinternational researchers, and NGOs (e.g.
IMAZON, IPAM, ISA, SOS Mata Atlhtica, WWF, CI, TNC, etc.). The results of much
of this work have been used and summarized inthe Policy Notes prepared by the Bank
for the current admini~tration~~.Economic and sector work has focused primarilyon the
following topics:

              the sustainable development of the Amazon, including forest management;

              causes and dynamics of deforestation;

         0    water resources management;           '


              urbanwater supplyand sewerage issues andtheir health impacts on the poor;
              and

         0    air and water pollution issues inurban areas and their impact on the poor.

4.18     A list of the analytical work can be found inAnnex X.

                            D. DESIGNOFTHEPROPOSEDFIRSTLOAN

4.19     The strategy for the first proposed loan o f US$ 505.05 million i s to maintain the
momentum of policy reforms already made, to help deepen the national debate on
environmental options and policies, to focus on short-term policy adjustments and
programs, and to lay the groundwork and plant the seeds for the achievement of medium
and long-term objectives. It was agreed to take other actions duringthe period of the first
loan, and the most critical of these have been selected as "trigger" conditions for the
approval of second and third loans.




36BrazilEquitable-Competitive- Sustainable- Contributionsfor Debate, preparedin 2002 andpublishedin2003.
Of specialrelevancefor the EnvPRLare chapters 8,9, 10and 11.



                                                   40

4.20      Where the proposalor ratification of a legislation i s a conditionality for Board
presentation, the Bank has carefully reviewed such draft legislations to be sure o f their
adequacy. Similarly, where a legislation would have to be proposedor approved as a
trigger condition for second and third loans, the Bank would conduct a review to ensure
that it i s satisfactory.

PART A Improving the Environmental Management System and SectoralPrograms
             -
under M M A Responsibility

4.21 Integrationand coordinationof environmental licensing among the three
tiers of government. Lack of clarity as to which level of government i s responsible for
different types of environmental licenses, as well as the multiplicity of criteria and
procedures have ledto confusion, conflicts, gridlock and delays inthe implementation of
environmental legislation, especially the licensing process. The parties need to discuss
and agree on common regulations clarifying the responsibilities of each tier, and on
consistent criteria and procedures for licensing. The legal mechanisms have been put in
place for establishing tripartite (federal, state and municipal) committees ineach state to
do exactly that. A National Tripartite Committee already exists and fourteen State
Committees have been created as o f June 2004. The establishment of committees inthe
remaining states and the harmonization of the legislation for the three levels o f
government in at least three states are the key next steps to be taken during the loan
period. The harmonization of the relevant legal framework in at least ten states; the
establishment of rules for the decentralization o f the environmental licensing system and
the introduction of the post-licensing monitoring process will be subjects o f medium-term
actions under the program. The desired outcome i s the 25 percent reduction inthe time
elapsed for IBAMA to issue a report on the process of licensing o f major projects and the
effective mitigation of negative environmental and social impacts of large-scale projects,
such as highways and hydroelectric plants.

4.22      Strengthening of MMA and IBAMA. MMA and IBAMA are not yet fully
equippedto performtheir functions inthe environmental management system. Key
concerns are staffing (quality and quantity), creation of a career path for environmental
managers and analysts, internal organization and procedures, and the management and
development of human resources. The public career position of environmental specialist
has now beencreated. Fix-term staff have already been selected and hired for IBAMA
and MMA for environmental career positions (in2002 and 2003) and a new public
selection process was recently authorized for the hiringof permanent career staff37 A                       .
diagnosis of the institutional structure of MMA and IBAMA has been prepared and a
proposal for their reorganization has been presented to the Ministry of Planning. The
country also lacks a solid set of environmental indicators inits national statistics system.
Hence, the monitoring and evaluation of progress on environmental quality, and the
identification of areas inneed o f further attention, leave much to be desired. A reflection
of this issue i s the difficulty in defining specific quantifiable desired outcomes from this


37This authorization, which was an agreement under the EnvPRL, allows the hiring o f 100 permanent staff for MMA
and610permanent staff for IBAMA. The selection process is being launched and the process should be finalized by
end of this calendar year.



                                                     41

EnvPRL. The key next steps under the proposed loan are the implementation of a new
institutional structure for MMA and IBAMA (particularly to improve the licensing
functions), and completion of the process to hire 300 new staff members for MMA and
610 for IBAMA. The improvement of the National Statistic Systemwith the inclusion of
environmental indicators for monitoring i s also a key next step. As medium-term actions,
internal administrative processes inMMA and IBAMA will be updated and staff will be
trained. The desired outcome i s an increase inthe execution of targets established inthe
key programs by MMA and IBAMA compared to January 2003.

4.23     Improvements inthe transparency of the environmental licensingprocess.
Government processes and decisions regardinglicensing and other aspects o f
environmental management are often unknown to the general public. Granting
information access to the public i s important (a) for increasing understanding among
interested groups; (b) for increasing the participation of stakeholders and interested
parties inenvironment-relateddiscussions and decisions; and (c) as a way to increase the
accountability of officials for government action or inaction. A "Transparency Law"
establishing the mandatory disclosure of environmental information, including the status
of environmental licensing processes, has been approved by Congress. The MMA and
IBAMA will make information about the environment accessible to the public via
internet. The design of such system i s a key next step to be taken duringthe loan period.
Implementation and disclosure of information via an internet system i s a medium-term
action under the EnvPRL. The desired outcome i s a decrease inthe number o f disputed
decisions compared with the number of licenses issued at the Federal level, and an
increase inthe number of accessesto the information system compared to June 2004.

4.24     Protectionof the Atlantic Forest and Cerrado Savannas. Very little i s left of
the once large Atlantic Forest with its extremely highbiodiversity, and only some 20
percent of the equally important Cerrado savanna region has been left undisturbed. The
latter i s coming under increasing threat from commercial agriculture and ranching. Both
biomes are recognized as world biodiversity hotspots. Brazil cannot afford a further
reduction of the Atlantic Forest and loss of control over Cerrado occupation and land use,
where protected areas are still minimal (1percent). The GOB i s working on this issue,
and has recently defined priority areas for conservation, sustainable use and biodiversity
benefits for the entire country, which includes the Cerrado and the Atlantic Forest, among
others.

4.25     Additionally, a specific law on the Atlantic Forest biome has been approvedby
the House of Representatives and i s being given urgent consideration by the Senate. The
law defines the extent of the biome and introduces a special legal regime applicable to
forest areas inthe biome. It also establishes more stringent rules on the use and
protection of land and forests, prohibits deforestation entirely, and provides for the
restoration of forest cover and the creation of a fund for that purpose. A Working Group
to prepare an Atlantic Forest Program has also been launched. The key next steps to be
taken under the proposed loan are to establish the regulation of the law and to define and
begin the implementation of the Atlantic Forest Program. The realization of such a
program i s a medium-term action planned under the EnvPRL. It i s expected that the



                                            42

result of these reforms will be no net deforestation inpriority areas for conserving the
Atlantic Forest.

4.26      A similar Working Group for the Cerrado biome hasbeen established andis a
condition o f Board presentation of the first loan, while a Cerrado Program will be defined
as a key next step of the proposed loan. Implementation of a Cerrado Program and
submission of a draft "Cerrado Law" to Congress are medium-term actions plannedunder
the EnvPRL. The desired outcome i s the doubling of the total o f areas under protection
inthe Cerrado. Inparallel, the Bank andthe GOB haveinitiated the preparation of a
GEFoperation3*to support biodiversity conservation andreduce ecosystem degradation
inthe Cerrado.

4.27      Sustainabilityof ForestManagement. The sustainable exploitation of native
forests i s one o f the most attractive alternatives to clear-felling, as it implies the long-
term maintenance of forest ecosystems. About 30 million m3of timber are extracted
annually from Amazon rainforests, most (about 95 percent) not through management but
through selective and predatory logging. Most of it occurs on public land, which i s
estimated to cover 45 percent of the Amazon region. The Bank has been proposing the
setting aside and use of public forests for sustainable (certified) commercial logging for
some time, not least as a means to reduce uncontrolled, free access to primaryforests.
However, such logging requires the issuingo f concessions on public land inan efficient,
competitive manner, for which there i s no adequate legal basis inBrazil.

4.28      On the other hand, about two thirds of the timber used inBrazil (construction,
commercial firewood, pulp, charcoal) come from forest plantations. There i s currently a
deficit of some 200,000 ha of new plantations per year just to maintain the current level
of consumption. Also, for a long time, the GOB has been charging a reforestation fee to
the industrythat consumes different timber commodities. However, the systemhas not
been effective inpromoting reforestation at an adequate pace, and i s in need of an
overhaul.

4.29      The National Forest Plan (PNF) provides for the promotion of sustainable native
forest management on both public and private land. A PNFCoordinating Committee has
been created and i s already operational, which i s a condition for Board presentation. A
billof law on sustainable logging concessions inpublic forests has been draftedby MMA
and reviewed by the Bank. It i s a condition of Board approval for the first loan that a
draft be submitted to the President's Office (Cam Civil).Also, the GOB i s working to
protect biological diversity from the potential risks posed by genetically modified
organisms resulting from modern biotechnology, and Congress has ratified the Cartagena
Protocol on biological safety of the Biodiversity Convention for this purpose. Duringthe
loan period, the GOB would make a major effort to see this law approvedby Congress.


38The GOB and the Bank are working on the development of a very innovativeGEF operationwhich would be an
umbrellaprojectto support the preservationof the Cerrado ecosystem. This umbrellaproject would support: (a) the
MMAon the developmentof policiesandstrategiesandoncapacitybuilding; and (b) selectedstates onthe
implementationof priority sub-projects.Three states have already beenidentified (Tocantins,GoiBs, andthe Federal
District) where the future GEF projectwould be fully blendedwith ongoing and/or forthcomingWorld Bank
investmentoperations.



                                                      43

Inaddition, the reformulationof the reforestation fee to promotemore effective forest
management i s a key next step for the second loan. Inthe medium term, the institutional
framework to manage the PNFwould be strengthened. The desired outcomes are the
sustainable management of 15 million ha (from the current 1million ha) in the Amazon
and the establishment of 400 thousand ha of new commercial forest per year in already-
cleared areas.

4.30    A loan to support the PNFis beingpreparedbetween the Bank and MMA and
would give essential support to the implementationof forest policies. Increasing
opportunities for local communities and indigenous peoples to exploit public forest
resources, including logging, as well as a loan to support PNF, will be important forest
policy objectives.

4.3 1 Improvementsinthe handlingof hazardouschemicals. The chemical sector of
Brazil has grown 40 percent from 1990 to 2000. Brazil i s now the ninthlargest producer
inthe world. The chemical sector represents 2.9 percent of the GDP. Increased
production also led to increased transport, storage, contamination and harmfulby-
products associated with chemicals. The risk of accidents with serious consequences for
the population, especially the unprotected poor, and for the environment, also increased.
For example, the rupture of one o f the Cataguase paper company's retention ponds in
2003 released hazardous contaminants inthe Paraiba do SuZ River, which traverses a
number of cities inthe states o f Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais, leaving hundreds o f
thousands of people without water for over a week, and causing serious damage to the
regional environment. The event demonstrated that the authorities were not preparedto
deal swiftly with this type of accident.

4.32    Inresponseto agrowingproblem, theNationalCouncilfor ChemicalSafetywas
created, consisting of government agencies, academia and representatives of civil society.
Its purpose i s to discuss and recommend strategies for addressing the issue and to
promote the implementationof various international treaties. This Council was
responsible for designing the National Program for Chemical Safety. The federal
government and relevant state agencies created the Program for Prevention and Rapid
Response to Emergencies with Hazardous Chemicals (P2R2) to strengthen these agencies
and improve cooperation among them. The federal government has recently created a
National Committee for the implementation o f P2R2. The Senate ratified the Rotterdam
Convention on the international trade of dangerous substances and the Stockholm
Convention on the ban of persistent organic pollutants. The ratification o f both
conventions and the launch of the National Program and of the P2R2 are conditions for
Board presentation of the first loan. Duringthe loan period, the key next steps are the
definition of an implementation strategy for the national register of emission and
transport of contaminants, the definition of mechanisms to identify chemical pollution
sources and sites under risk and the beginning of implementation of the P2R2. Inthe
medium term, the P2R2 would be fully operational, and the major pollution sources and
sites identified inkey states and the control and inspection to prevent environmental
contamination and combat the illegal trafficking of controlled or prohibited substances or
residues would be improved. The expected outcomes would be a 20 percent decrease in



                                           44

the number o f hazardous chemical accidents andpeople affectedby them compared to
January, 2003.

4.33    Improvements inwater resource management. Water availability inBrazil
varies between the humidand water richAmazon region to the semi-arid northeast.
Water pollutioninthe country, particularly inurban areas, has worsened considerably
over the past years mostly due to the population increase, industrial pollution, inadequate
land use, and the excessive use of agrochemicals inrural areas. Water consumptionhas
also increased, leadingto conflicts between water users. Inresponse to these challenges,
in 1997, the GOB approved the Water Resources National Policy Law to establish a new
institutional framework (e.g. river basin committees and agencies) and instruments (e.g.
Water Resources National Plan - PNRH, bulk water rights and charges, etc.) to address
these issues. Since 1997, some 50 committees have been established infederal and state
river basins and one water agency was created.

4.34    In2003, abasic reference document andguidelines for the Water Resources
National Plan were prepared. The Plani s going to define the macro-strategies for water
resources inBrazil, with the aim of guaranteeing the quantity and quality o f water
necessary for future generations. A law39was recently approved and ratified,
establishing mechanisms and conditions for the transfer of water charges and the
delegation of authority from the NationalWater Agency to local level river basin
agencies. The first voluntary payment for the use of bulk water has been implemented in
the Paruiba do SuZ river basin. Bulk water charges are introduced as an instrument to
stimulate the rational use of water and promote the sustainability of the water resources
management system at the basin level. Duringthe loan period, key next steps are the
preparation and launching of the National Plan, the creation and strengthening of water
resources-based organizations, and the establishment o f mechanisms for increasing the
implementation andcollection o f bulk water charges. Inthe medium term, the National
Plan would be approved, serving as a basis for investment and water allocation decisions.
Bulkwater charges wouldbe implementedinkey river basins increasingthe
sustainability o f management systems. It i s expected that these reforms would increase
the percentage o f the volume of water used that i s licensed at the federal level as
compared to January, 2003. They would establish water basin agencies and improve the
financial sustainability of the water resources management system in at least six key river
basins.

PART B Mainstreaming the Environmental Agenda in Other Sectoral Policies and
          -
Programs

4.35     Control of Deforestation inthe Amazon. After sharp increases indeforestation
rates in 2002 and again in2003 over the average level recorded in the 1990s, an inter-
ministerial Working Group, which included fourteen ministries, issued its final report in
March 2004. The group recommended 149 activities to reduce deforestation, to be carried
out by several different agencies. This report represents a true breakthrough, as it
acknowledges for the first time that control o f deforestationi s not only a matter of

39 Law 10881, of June 9 ~2004.
                          ,



                                           45

environmental control (involving MMA, IBAMA and state agencies), but of adjusting the
policies of other sectors as well. The recommendations of the WG have been approved at
the highest level of government, and their implementationhas been officially launched,
as a condition of Board presentation of the proposed loan. Among other things, the
recommendations include actions for dealing with the issue of land regularization4',
titling andregistration inrural areas of the Amazon, a sine-qua non condition for
effective control over illegal occupation and deforestation. Another condition i s the
creation of an inter-ministerialworking group on sustainable development along the
corridor of the federal highway BR-163 (see para 3.56). Under the loan, land tenure
(public or private land) would be identified inthe most critical areas in terms o f
deforestation, and further details would be provided regarding the zoning for the corridor
along the BR-163 road. Also, as an action o f the Control of Deforestation Plan, ajoint
operation between MMA and the Ministries of Justice, Defense and Labor would take
place through the integration of equipment, logistics and sources. Inthe medium-term,
the process for regularizing land tenure inthese critical areas would begin and protected
areas would be created. An action plan for the BR-163 corridor would be drawn up
based on zoning recommendations. The desired outcomes are a decrease inillegal land
appropriation ("grilagem") and the creation of 12 million ha of protectedareas inthe
region of influence of BR-163. Two-thirds of the additional protected areas (8 million
ha) would be implemented with the support of the GEF-World Bank funded ARPA
program. This i s again another example coherent coupling of policy based lending with
investment programs inBrazil.

4.36    Promoting Amazon Sustainable Development. After the drive for occupation
o f the Amazon from the sixties through the eighties, Brazil has struggled to define a
vision for the future of the Amazon and to formulate plans and policies for sustainable
development for about half of its territory, seeking a balance between conservation and
development. Inpart as a result of the implementation of the Pilot Program to Conserve
the Brazilian RainForest (PPG7), the MMA and the Ministry of Integrationjointly
coordinated the preparation of a multi-faceted plan called "ProgramaAmazGnia
Sustentdvel" (PAS), Sustainable Amazon Program, involvingeight ministries. A formal
agreement by the President and governors of the region, concerning the adoption and
implementation of a PAS, has already been signed. This, along with the completion of the
proposal, are conditions for Board approval for the first loan. Approval of the PAS by
the highest levels o f government and inclusion of its major lines of action into the
proposedreview of the PPA are the key next steps to be carried out during the proposed
loan period. The meso-regional development plans for the Amazon defined according to
strategic guidelines of the PAS are medium-term actions planned under the EnvPRL.
Desired outcomes are a 15 percent increase intotal revenue from certified sustainable
natural resources management activities, compared to January, 2003, and a 30 percent
increase inthe sustainable economic use o f areas already cleared and abandoned.

4.37    Mainstreaming environmental concerns inthe sanitation sector. Brazil's
large urban centers are composed of two major zones: metropolitan centers and suburbs


40    Particularly the determination of what is public land.



                                                  46

(peripheral areas where most poor people live, or with limited or no access to public
services). Environmental pollution anddegradation are prevalent inmost suburban areas.
These areas are also prone to flooding, with dismal health conditions due to a lack of
adequate waste disposal, contamination of water resources, and accidents such as
landslides resulting from the uncontrolled occupation of highrisk areas. Up to 40 percent
o f solid waste generated inBrazil remains uncollected. O f the portion that i s collected,
only 28 percent i s treated or disposed of in an environmentally sound way. Around 22
percent o f the population has no access to water, 53 percent has no sewage systems and
80 percent has no sewage treatment system. The need for substantial investments to
address these issues i s evident. On other hand, it i s of the utmost importance to develop
new management instrumentsand institutional frameworks - particularly for the
management o f solid waste - to revise the national sanitation policy, and to develop
urban planning instruments that mainstreamenvironmental management.

4.38    The GOB i s working on addressing these problems. It established a Working
Group comprised of eleven institutions (eight ministries, two federal banks - CEF and
BNDES - and the National Health Foundation-FUNASA)to conduct studies and
formulate proposals for the integration of environmental sanitation actions within the
government. The MMA and the Ministries of Cities and Culture have signed a Technical
Cooperation Agreement for the development o f a new methodology for defining Master
Plans that includes environmental criteria. Also, the GOB has established the certification
system for PRODES. These are all conditions for the first loan. Key next steps are the
submission to Congress of a proposed law on solid waste, the improvement of the
PRODES certification system, and the implementation of the methodology for Master
Plans in 30 municipalities. The expansion of the PRODES system, the effective
integration among the different ministries of environmental sanitation activities in
accordance with the Working Group recommendations, and the implementation o f the
methodology for Master Plans in 100additional municipalities are medium-term actions
plannedunder the EnvPRL. The desired outcomes are the abatement o f 100,000kg
BOD/day of pollution discharge and a 15 percent decrease inthe number o f hospital
entries due to water-related diseases in areas benefited from PRODES. A 5 percent
increase inthe area of municipalities occupied i s also expected in accordance with the
socio-environmental use criteria as defined by municipal Master Plans.

4.39    Integration of zoning with regional development planning. Some 160,000
km2of Amazon landhavebeen cleared andlater abandoned due to a lack of fertility. This
might have been partially avoided hadzoning information been available to the
occupants. Environmental-Economic Zoning (ZEE), a unique Brazilian form of land-use
planning, has been carried out in some parts of Brazil, including inparts of the Amazon41.
ZEE is essentially a task for states andmunicipalities, although there are federal
prerogatives such as the indication and creation of protected and indigenous areas, as well
as its approval in accordance to the Forest Code. Zoning has been considered merely a
technical exercise and not a public, government-led negotiation process among

41      TheNaturalResourceManagementProjects for RondBniaState (PLANAFLORO), fundedby a
Bankloan, includedzoning for the entire state. So did a similar project andloanfor MatoGrossoState
(PRODEAGRO). See ImplementationCompletionReportsNr.26080 and 26081, 2003, respectively.



                                                47

stakeholders, duringwhich technical and scientific information and recommendations
would be used as a basis and an input, not as a technocratic prescription. It has had little
impact on actual land use and has rarely been used as a tool for regional planning,
particularly at state level. Mere prescription of land use, even if by law, i s not likely to
bringabout actual landuse inline with zoning indications. "Mainstreaming" is required
for its implementation, Le., the adoption of zoning recommendations by the private sector
and all sectors of government. To be followed, it must be backed up by consistent
(regional and state) policies concerning infrastructure, credit and other incentives, across
all sectors.

4.40     MMAis responsible for the Environmental-Economic Zoning (ZEE)inthe
federal government. However, MMA alone cannot be responsible for the effectiveness of
zoning, as regional planning i s the responsibility of the Ministry of Integration. A
consortium o f government agencies from 12ministries on ZEE has been formed, and
updated methodological guidelines for ZEE have recently been issued b y the government.
These are conditions of Board presentation for the proposedloan.

4.41     The key next steps to be carried out under the proposed loan are the integration
and inclusion into maps of the major actions and policies o f the federal government inthe
north, northeast and midwest regions of the country, to be used as an input to the regional
land-use planning. Due to the importance of the SGo Francisco river basin for the
development o f the northeast of Brazil, the MMA and the Minister of Integration are
working together to establish a Revitalization Programfor the basin. The launch of this
Programi s also a key next step. Inthe medium term, ZEE should become a major
regional planning instrument and the SGo Francisco revitalization program should be
fully operational. The desired outcome of all these actions would be a 5 percent increase
inthe territory landuse and occupation inaccordance with the regional development
plans, measured 24 months after its launch.

4.42     Mainstreamingof environmental and sustainability criteria infinancial and
fiscal policies and instruments. Fiscal (taxes, subsidies, constitutionally mandated
transfers) and financial (credit) instruments have rarely been used for environmental and
sustainability objectives. The increased use o f such instruments complementing
traditional command-and-control instruments inenvironmental management i s very
desirable. For example, the allocation of federal revenue to states under the State
Participation Fund(FPE) could incorporatecriteria related to the maintenance of natural
vegetation cover in a state, or the relative size o f protected areas. Credit by public banks
could be conditional, based on compliance with environmental regulations, and official
credit lines could be geared specifically towards sustainable activities and businesses.

4.43     The approval of a constitutional amendment to ensure that the economic order
shall observe the principle of environmental sustainability is a condition for Board
approval. This principle provides for distinct economic treatments in accordance with the
environmental impact of goods and services. A Technical Committee (TC) was formed
by the MMA and the Finance Ministry to study the inclusion o f environmental
sustainability criteria infiscal instruments (e.g. tax laws and regulations). In addition, a
Working Group was established between MMA and MFto improve a mechanism for the


                                            48

inclusion o f environmental criteria inthe concession of public credit (e.g. Protocolo
Verde).These are also conditions for Boardpresentation.

4.44    The preparationby the TC of proposals for the inclusion of sustainability criteria
infiscal mechanisms and the review of the mainstreamingof environmental criteria in
public (federal) credit are key next steps to be taken duringthe program. A draft law for
the inclusion of environmental criteria infiscal instruments and mechanisms, such as the
application o f the polluter-pay principle, will be submitted to Congress over the medium
term, as well as the effective use of the Green Protocol infederal banks. The desired
outcome i s an increase inthe volume of lending based on the Green Protocol.

4.45    Improvement of environmental sustainability inthe energy sector.
Uncertainties inthe licensing system for private and public energy infrastructure projects
(electricity, oil and gas) have ledto delays incommitment of private investments and in
the implementation and final operation of such projects. Moving environmental scrutiny
upstream would allow for the early consideration of alternatives and inclusion of
environmental improvements inplanning and design. A new "model" for the energy
sector has been approved by Congress, which includes moving environmental analysis
and licensing "upstream" inthe overall planning and approval process for energy
investments. A program to support alternative forms of energy (PROINFA) has been
launched. A technical cooperation agreement between MMA and the Ministry of Energy
was signed for the implementation of a common environmental agenda. These three
actions are conditions for Boardpresentation.

4.46    Brazil i s introducing the "Strategic Environmental Assessment" instrument
(SEA), which aims at transcending the narrow local and short-term impacts of
infrastructure investments, and at looking at major projects using a less localized and
more strategic, longer term, and regional view. The application of SEA to water basins
where new major hydropower schemes will be proposed, the structuring of an
environmental department inthe recently created Energy Research Company (Empresa
de Pesquisa Energe`tica - EPE) with the involvement of MMA,the inclusion of
rehabilitation of the output capacity of old hydropower plants inthe Decennial Plan of the
Electric Sector, and the establishment of a National Energy Conservation plan are key
steps to be taken during the proposed loan. The implementation of the National Energy
Conservation Plan and the improvement o f the SEA for the electric power sector and its
adoption by the oil and gas sectors are proposed for the medium term. The desired
outcomes are a decrease inthe negative social and environmental impacts of energy
infrastructure projects, and a 5 percent reduction inthe consumption of traditional forms
o f energy per product unit inkey sectors defined inthe Plan.

4.47    Improvement of environmental sustainability inagrarian reform
(settlements). Agrarian reform and colonization inBrazil have been relying heavily on
government-sponsored settlements on public or expropriated private land. Many
settlements are based on the traditional technologies o f clear-felling and slash-and-burn
cultivation, with little regardfor environmental (much less social and economic)
sustainability. Proper selection of settlement sites and proposedland use and production
technologies could make settlements more environmentally friendly and more sustainable


                                             49

inthe longrunif these planningoptions are considered upstream inthe settlement
planning process. CONAMA has made the establishment of settlements an activity
requiring a specific environmental license. A new National Plan for Agrarian Reform
was launchedb y the government, which includes, for the first time, environmental
sustainability criteria for settlements. This i s a condition of Board presentation.

4.48    The establishment of rules and procedures to simplify the licensing o f settlements
i s a key next step to be taken under the proposed loan. Inthe medium term, the
beginning of the regulation process for environmental licensing inall settlements created
until2003, andthe implementationof all settlements created after 2003 complying with
the environmental legislation would occur. The desired outcomes are the effective
implementation of the 15 percent increase of the Resewa Legal andAreas de Proteqiio
Permanente (protected areas as defined by the Brazilian Forest Code) and the 15 percent
decrease in degraded areas inthe settlements.

4.49    Improvement of environmental sustainability intourism development. Brazil
wants to develop its vast tourism potential, including mass tourism incertain regions. A
well-known problem of mass tourism i s that it tends to destroy the very basis of attraction
upon which it has been developed, affecting the beauty and integrity of sites, landscapes
and entire regions. The establishment of a CooperationAgreement between the
Ministries of Environment and Tourism to define a common agenda i s a condition for
Board approval of the first loan.

4.50    The establishment of an integrated action plan and indicators for the monitoring
and evaluation of the National Tourism Plan are key steps to be taken during the loan
period. The medium-term actions are the implementation of the integrated action plan
and the monitoring and evaluation system. The desired outcome i s the increase of the
environmental sustainability inkey regions measured by indicators developed during the
loan.

                  E. LOAN    AMOUNT, CONDITIONS, ANDARRANGEMENTS

4.51    The first loan would be a fixed spread U S Dollar loan inthe amount o f US$
505.05 million (including the front-end fee o f one percent) to the Federative Republic of
Brazil, to be disbursed in a single tranche.

4.52    The proposed loan does not increase public sector spending. It would not increase
aggregate fiscal resources available to the administration for environment and other
sectoral agencies since the fiscal envelope i s definedby bindingtargets for the primary
fiscal.

4.53    The first loan would close on December 31,2004. The loan will have a final
maturity of 17 years, and an interest rate applicable to fixed-spread U S dollar loans.

4.54    Loan Effectiveness, Disbursement and Procurement. The Borrower has
already completedthe actions for release o f the loan. The loan would become effective at
signing. Upon notification by the Bank o f loan effectiveness, the Borrower will submit a
simplified withdrawal application and the proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the


                                            50

Bank into an account ("Deposit Account") of the Federative Republic of Brazil
established at the Central Bank for this purpose. Inaccordance with the Operational
Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and
Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), the disbursement will not be linked to
specific purchases. There will hence be no procurement requirements.



       5. Linksto the CAS and other Bank Group Operations
                A. LINKTO THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCESTRATEGY 2004-2007

5.1      The Country Assistance Strategy 2004 - 2007 i s entitled "A more Equitable,
Sustainable and Competitive Brazil". The CAS i s built on Brazil's own Multi-year Plan
(PPA, see Chapter 3) and its long-term vision and development goals. The proposed
EnvPRLwould directly support the second "pillar" of the CAS - a more sustainable
Brazil:

               "Amore sustainable Brazil will help reducepoverty and achieve a higher
              quality of life for all Brazilians in the rural areas and in the urban centers.A
              healthy natural and physical environment willprovide basic services in both
              urban and rural areas in a sustainable, ejficient way (MDG7).It will build
              on the country's comparative advantage in natural resources            ...whilealso
              conserving them. A sustainable Brazil will also be a source of
              competitiveness and provide wealthfor thefuture.         "



5.2      Greater sustainability means the pursuitof long-term country goals, such as:

         0    "enhanced and more equitable access to urban and rural basic services (e.g.
              water supply and sanitation);

         0    better water quality and water resource management;

         0    more sustainable land management, protection of forests and biodiversity; and


         0    greater social inclusion."


5.3      The proposedprogram would directly promote the second and third of the above-
listed goals, and indirectly the first42. The CAS defined clear priorities within the
framework of these objectives, as well as selected Bank instruments to support them,
including a "sustainable development programmatic loan series". The priorities, medium
term outcomes, "contributors", and selected Bank activities for objectives (b) and (c)
mentioned above are shown inTable 5.1.



42 B y policy actions aimed at mainstreamingenvironmental concerns inthe sanitation sector.



                                                51

                          Table 5.1 A More SustainableBrazil
                                        -

Long-TermCountry            Medium-Term                  CAS-Supported                 SelectedBank
        Goals                  Outcomes                  Contributors to           Group Activities to
                           Contributingto                 Medium-Term                      Support
                          Long-TermGoals                      Outcomes                 Contributors
                        Increasednumberof water
                        basinswith legalallocation
                          of water rights (10% of
                         basinswith water rights)                and SE
                                                                                   State UrbanWater Quality
 Better water quality    Improvedwater quality,         Cost recovery policies               Project
 and water resource       especially inthe urban       designed and established
    management                   southeast                    at local level

                           More efficient water       Increasedinvestmentand       NE State Water Resources
                          resourcemanagement,            better management of        Managementprojects
                           especially inthe arid             water resource
                                 Northeast
                                                    I                                Managementprojects


                        More systematic land use
                        More syste                     Participatoryzoningand      SustainableDevelopment
                          zoning anc
                          zoning andenforcement      landuse planningstrategies    ProgrammaticLoan series
                                                      inplaceinAmazon region
                                                                  states            State Integratedprojects
                                                                                    NationalForest project
                          Adoption of sustainable       Reduced illegal timber           CarbonFund
                         forest strategy, especially              trade
                          inthe North andMata                                      IFC support for corporate
More sustainable land            Atlantica             Increased  numberof new
 management, forests                                    state,municipal   forests  responsibility(See Annex
                                                                                   social andenvironmental

   and biodiversity                                                                           XI)
                                                         Programsin place for      AmazonRegionProtected
                                                          promotionof locally        Areas Program(ARPA
                                                                                            ongoing)
                          Adoption of strategy for      appropriate technology
                         biodiversityconservation       Increased  percentage of    RainForest Pilot Project
                                                                                   (RFPPnew and ongoing),
                                                         conservationpractices
                                                                landunder                    grants

                                                                                           GEF grants

5.4     The CAS i s results-oriented and defined a result framework of medium-term
country outcomes, associated with the MillenniumDevelopment Goals. For a more
sustainable Brazil, targets have been adopted (see Table 5.2) which guided the selection
of outcome indicators of the proposed program.




                                                  52

                        Table 5.2: Selected Long Term Development Indicators


                                                                                                               MDG2015
                              INDICATOR                   1990    2002       PPNCAS 2007 TARGETS               TARGETS
                                                                                                                (MDG 7)


                                                                           % inurban areas to fall to 6.5%
                    Population without safe water                          from 7.6% in2000", and 3.7
                    access                                 24%     22%     millionpeople insemi-arid         12%
                                                                           areas in NEto get potable
                                                                           water*
M o r e equitable
access to local     Population without adequate                            % of urban residents without
services            sanitation (no ..
                                   piped sewerage or       39%     31%     piped sewerage facilities to fall 20%
                    septic tanks)

                    Families with permanent
                    dwellings                             95 3%  93% ('00) 95.5%                             Increase


                    Rural families with electricity        52%   78% ('01) 100%

Better water
quality and water   Legal allocation of water rights
resource            (share of main basins)                 <2%     10%     35%                               sustainable
management                                                                                                   development
                                                                                                             policies
                                                                                                             enhanced,
M o r e sustainable Share of land area that i s under :
                    (i)protectedareas; (ii)indigenous    (i)%6    (i)8%     (I) 12% (100 nullion ha)         environmental
management of       lands                                (ii) 4% (ii)
                                                                    11%     (ii) (100nullionha)
                                                                                12%                          resource loss
land, forests, and                                                                                           reversed

biodiversity        Area under certified sustainable
                    forest management (hectares)         100,000  190,000  700,000


                            B. COMPLEMENTARITY WITH OTHER OPERATIONS

    5.5        The proposed programmatic loan series complements the ongoing dialogue on
    policies and investment programs inpriority sectors identified by GOB, including water
    resources management, water supply and sanitation, national integration and regional
    development, development finance, energy, agrarian reform, and tourism. It also
    complements existing and proposed programs and projects inthe environmental area,
    such as biodiversity conservation, sustainable use of tropical forests, persistent organic
    pollutants (POPS), and climate change, among others.

    5.6        The EnvPRLwould complement two other programmatic operations - those for
    sustainable and equitable growth and human development. The Growth PRL seeks, inter
    alia, to streamline the business environment. The EnvPRLwould support such
    streamlining with regard to environmental licensing. The operation complements the
    Human Development PRL as it supports reforms aimed at improved environmental
    health indicators.

    5.7        Inthe area of consolidating and improving Brazil's environmentalmanagement
    system, the loan will complement a number of ongoing initiatives (see Table 5.3). The
    Bank has investedinbuildingnational, state and local environmental management



                                                             53

capacity generally through the first and second National Environment Projects, and in
the area o f forest fire prevention and control through the PROARCO loan. Inmost
Amazon states, environmental agencieshave been strengthened under the Natural
Resources Policy Project (NRPP) of the Pilot Programto Conserve the Brazilian rain
Forest (PPG7)    .
        Table 5.3: Summary Informationon ComplementaryLoansand Grants

         AREA                             LOAN                 NUMBER         AMOUNT
Sectoral                   Growth S A L                         PO80827     $505 million
Sectoral                   HDS A L                              PO80746     $505 million
Institutional capacity     National EnvironmentalProgramI1      PO35741     $ 15 million
Institutional capacity     Emergency FirePrevention             PO58129     $15 million
                           (PROARCO)
Institutional capacity     Natural ResourcesPolicy Project-     PO06565     $ 8 5 million

Green Agenda             I Pilot Program to Conserve the        various    1$215 million
         I                 BrazilianRain Forest -PPG7
Green Agenda
         -                 GEF - Amazon ProtectedAreas          PO58503     $30 million
                           Project (AWA)
Blue Agenda                Federal Water Resources              PO38895     $ 158 million
                           Management Project (PROAGUA)
Blue Agenda                Cearfi Integrated Water Resources    PO06449     $136 million
                           Management Project (PROGERIRH)
Blue Agenda                Bahia Water ResourcesManagement      PO35728     $ 5 1 million
                           (PGRH)
Brown Agenda               Betim Integrated MunicipalProject    PO82328     $24 million
Sanitation                 Low Income Sanitation - Technical    PO39199     $ 30.3 million




                                              54

5.8     Core Environmental Agenda. Preparation of several complementary activities
i s underway or planned to support various facets of the environmental sustainability
agenda. For the green agenda, capacity to supervise implementation of the law to protect
the Atlantic Rainforest will be supported through the PPG7 Atlantic Rainforest Sub-
program. On the blue agenda, improved water quality and cost recovery policies for
environmental damage at the local level will be assisted through a new state urban water
quality project and state-level integrated water resource management loans. More
efficient water resource management i s being supported through state water resource
management projects inthe Northeast and national water resource management activities
(PROAGUA).

5.9     Inthe brownagenda, several activities complementthe proposed PRL, including
a growing number of municipal loans that emphasize urban environmental improvement
(beginning with the Betim Integrated Project), integrating water and sanitation
investment through a project aimed at small municipalities (which may lead to a larger
water and sanitation SWAp) and the growing demand for funding of solid waste
managemenvmethane reduction projects under the Prototype Carbon Fund.

5.10    A GEFprogrammatic operation is underpreparationto develop funding
mechanisms for the clean-up of contaminated sites (POP-related pollution). A funding
mechanism to ensure prompt response to chemical hazards will be complemented by
definition of technical criteria to establish environmental liabilities and determinejust
compensation from polluters. Besides the legal framework, which makes innovative,
market-based mechanisms such as auctioning of brown fields possible, information gaps
will be filled out. Cost-benefit analysis of remediation costs and health impacts will help
to determine risk thresholds for establishing brown fields and developing better licensing
and preventive risk mitigation mechanisms.

5.11 Environmental Agenda inPriority Sectors. The sanitation sector has been
supported by the PROSANEAR project andb y technical assistance to water and
sanitation utilities. Regionalplanning has been supported through zoning exercises in
several Amazonian states and will be further supported through the CAS sub-strategy for
sustainable development inthe Amazon. Environmental complementarity inthe energy
sector includes development of the GEF energy conservation project, growing demand
for CDM activities43and a possible rural electrification SWAp. Landmanagement and
land reform have been supported through micro-catchment projects inthe South and
Southeast and community-based approach to improve access to land inthe rural
Northeast (Crkdito Fundidrio). Emerging complementarity exists inthe areas of
development finance (a constructive dialogue with the Banco daAmazBnia and a micro-
credit operation with the Banco do Nordeste) and tourism (discussions with the Ministry
of Tourism on capacity buildingand lending opportunities).




43 Beginning with the PlantarPCFproject for inter-fuel substitution.



                                                55

             c.  REVIEW AND LESSONS      LEARNED OTHEROPERATIONS
                                                    FROM

5.12   The proposedPRL incorporates the findings of the "Programmatic Adjustment
Lending Retrospective" (Internal report, January 2004), which reviewed the experience
with recent adjustment lending, identified issues of design and implementation, and
suggested a number of good practices for programmatic adjustment operations:

            The actions that the PRL will support are part of a larger Government reform
            program (see Annex 111).

            A concise and monitorable set of triggers hasbeen clearly identified (see
            Chapter 4).

            The policy matrix includes several indicators with time-bound benchmarks.

            Ex-ante assessmentsof Brazil's public expenditure, procurement andfinancial
            management systems have been carried out.

            The program focuses on issues of transparency and accountability of the
            environmental management system.

            Risksand mitigation measures have been clearly identified (see Chapter 6).

            The proposed PRLbuilds on extensive analytical work (see Annex X).

5.13   The proposed EnvPRLoperation i s the first adjustment operation on environment
for Brazil, but the thirdinthe LAC Region. It attempts to heed lessons learned from this
limited set of environmental reform operations, particularly from the Mexico
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan I(EnvSAL I).        The second operation,
Colombia Sustainable Development SAL, i s still under preparation and inthe process of
generating lessons. The Mexico EnvSAL producedthe following lessons:

            Importance of a strong analvtical base, which includes technical, institutional,
            and political economy analyses. Inparticular, identification o f priorities based
            on both analytical work and perceptions; and good understanding o f the
            institutional framework, including both informal and formal rules.

            In theproposed EnvPRLfor Brazil, this has involved assessments of the
            institutional needs of the Ministry of Environment, the national environmental
            (SISNAMA) and water resource management (SINGERH) systems, and an
            ongoing, intense dialogue with the key sectoral ministries and agencies.

            Ensure that the weakest have a voice and are not disproportionately affected,
            and ensure that not only formal rules and institutions are reformed, but also
            that behavioral changes are brought about inthe long term.

            TheEnvPRLpromotes mechanismsfor improved participation, accountability



                                           56

             and transparency to influence long-term behavioral changes. Consultations
             have been held with a number of representative civil society organizations in
             the developmentof the loan.


         0   A supportingTechnicalAssistance Loan (TAL)is recommended, since
             typically inter-sectoral coordination i s a slow process and needs continuous
             budgetary and technical support.

             The EnvPRLfocuses only onpriority sectors, so that inter-institutional
             coordination efjcorts are not scattered butfocused on the sectors that have
             highest impact in terms of environmental degradation. An accompanying TAL
             is under preparation to directly support and strengthen the Government's
             capacity to manage the programfor results.


         0   Focus on a few central actions, impacts and results inthe design of the
             Program.

             The EnvPRLpolicy matrix takes an integrated rather than sector- specijic
             approach. Itfocuses on recognition of recent and ongoing achievements in
             thefirst operation, design and implementation of policy reforms in the second
             operation, and then on impacts, embodied by indicators that reflect cross-
             sectoral interventions, in thefinal operation.

5.14    The project also incorporates lessons learned from several technical assistance
operations inthe environment sector, including the Poland Environment Management
Project and the Chile Environmental Institutions Development Project. A major lesson
from these projects i s the importance of aligning institutional incentives with the
implementation of environmental components. The EnvPRL seeks to generate a shared
vision with respect to sectoral-environmental policy, involving all stakeholders such as
the relevant sector agency, environment regulator, environmental enforcer, and financier,
but requires only implementationby an institution inline with its existing mandate. A
second lesson refers to the importance o f public participation and transparency incross-
sectoral and politically charged projects. Inthe EnvPRL, participation and transparency
are promoted at different levels.



                            6. RisksandRiskMitigation
                                           A. RISKS

6.1     The proposed EnvPRLwould be the Bank's first programmatic reform loan
package inBrazil to support environmental sustainability through policy reforms. Risk
of failure i s higher for a novel operation simply because there i s less experience from the
past to rely on and thus higher uncertainty. The following possible negative outcomes
have been identified.




                                             57

(A) The environmental reformagendais not carried out adequately, Le. not inthe agreed
scope or within the expected time. There are several possible causes: (i) the economy
remains vulnerable to external shocks and social and political pressure; (ii) lack of
coordination among the key stakeholders could affect program implementation; (iii)
government agencies fail to demonstrate sufficient institutional and political capacity to
pushthe reformagendaforward; (iv) some or all partner (sectoral) ministries and
agencies abandon the "mainstreaming" agenda; (v)the Brazilian Legislature does not
pass required legislation; (vi) a change inthe leadership of individual ministries could
lead to a delay inthe implementation of the reforms; (vii) a new federal administration
takes over in 2007 and fails to implement remaining policy reform steps; or (viii) vested
interests could oppose and delay the implementation of key elements of the reform
agenda.

(B) Reforms are carried out as agreed, butdo not havethe desired outcomes interms of
the behavior of economic agents, of environmental quality and natural resource
conservation. For example, deforestation inthe Amazon rain forest continues unabated at
recent levels or even increases. This category of undesired outcome i s more technical in
nature and depends on the complex linksbetween environmental policies and outcomes.
This i s an important riskinlight of the complexity of environmental effects, but it is an
issue faced by all countries andrequires continued attention.

6.2       The proposed loan will support environmental sustainability mainly through
policy reforms. For this reason, the more concrete impacts of the program interms of
improved environmental conditions, which are naturally its ultimate objective, require a
longer time to materialize. Its impacts should therefore not be assessedbased on short-
term changes on environmental conditions, but rather on the path of policy and
institutional conditions leading to them.

                          B. RISKASSESSMENT       AND MITIGATION

(A) Thereform agendanot carried out adequately

6.3      One of the most important risks faced by the program are the challenges faced by
the government stemming from the external risks,which could worsen the fiscal
environment andjeopardize the macroeconomic situation. Brazil has high external
financing needs coming mainly from medium- and long-term debt amortizations.
Brazilian public finance i s hampered by highdebt service payments and rigid spending
patterns that reduce the scope for reallocating spending toward the most effective
programs. Both external financing needs and tight public finances make the Brazilian
economy vulnerable to investor perceptions, international and domestic. A downturn in
emerging market conditions, for example, increases the cost to Brazil of rolling over
(even partially) its debt amortizations. Such downturns are b y nature quite unpredictable.
And exogenous shocks that affect the public finances (such as changes ininternational
riskaversion andits effect on the price of emergingmarket debt) may also affect
domestic investor perceptions about the government's liquidity and capacity to honor its
contracts, and therefore the cost of deficit financing.




                                            58

6.4     This riski s real butnot considered highat this time. As described inChapter 2,
Brazil's external financing position has improved considerably on a background of a
more competitive currency, domestic recession, lower spreads on Brazilian foreign debt,
and strong Brazilian export performance. Strong fiscal performance at all levels of
government, strict adherence to the Fiscal Responsibility Law by the states,
municipalities, and public enterprises, and the passage of social security reformhave
increased investor confidence inthe sustainability of Brazil's public debt, and
Government's ability to honor its own financial contracts. Furthermore, the strong Bank
program and the stand-by arrangement of the IMFlessen this risk b y demonstrating
active, visible support of the government's fiscal and public sector adjustments. The IMF
has recently and publicly acknowledged Brazil's strong performance, its reforms and the
expectations for near-term growth (see Annex XU).

6.5     The government itself faces social andpolitical pressures, which themselves
leadto further fiscal risks. The pursuit of cautious and orthodox fiscal and monetary
management b y the Government has not come without its own political costs. Partsof
public opinion, particularly inthe media and inparts of the governing party coalition,
have pressed for various departures from the path chosen so far: a faster lowering of the
monetary policy interest rate (SELIC), currency intervention infavor of a weaker real,
exemption of public enterprise investments from primary surplus figures to allow faster
public sector infrastructure investment (at the expense of fiscal loosening). All would
have represented extremely risky economic strategies and all were resisted. The country
i s now beginning to see the results, with growth picking up and forecast to accelerate into
2004. Nonetheless, political pressures may leadnot only to fiscal risks but also to
program risks of short-termism. The programmatic framework mitigates this risk. The
Government itself has demonstrated a high degree of commitment to sound policies
through the development of the present program and the second and third loans depend
not only on maintaining the integrity o f the reforms to date, but also on the deepening o f
the reform process. Moreover, the accompanying Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) will
provide direct support to the monitoring and evaluation process which will be a
participatory process that should include civil society and possibly the private sector.
The TAL will enforce the transparency o f the process which will allow for a decrease of
the social and political pressures and an increase of public confidence inthe Government
and inthe Program.

6.6     Additionally, part of the Bank's strategy to mitigate this risk has been to broaden
its assistanceto incorporate several fronts that should garner stronger support for the
government program. The Bank i s planning financial and technical support for two of
the Government's flagship social initiatives (the unified conditional cash transfer Bolsa
Familia and the youth employment program, Primeiro Emprego). Furthermore, the
recent Programmatic LoanFor Sustainable And Equitable Growth may have immediate
impacts on investment - and hence growth, job creation, andfiscal revenues - through
confidence buildingeffects.

6.7     This will be the Bank's first adjustment loan inBrazil to support the environment
under the GOB'S PPA. There i s strong government ownership o f the reforms under the
operation. The priority actions under the first operation have been completed. The GOB


                                            59

has made a special effort, at the highest levels, to assure appropriate multisectoral
coordination. However, in order to implement a program of this type, coordination over
the period of the program (i.e. beyondthe life of the first loan) is key for success. The
involvement and sustained interest of two of the federal government's most powerful
actors - the President's Office (Cam Civil)and the Treasury - inensuring implementation
of reforms and activation of the two subsequent programmatic loans i s a way of
mitigating this risk. Their involvement should support the prioritization o f the actions to
reach the key reforms and the disbursement of the budget for the implementation of
those actions.

6.8     Additionally, based on the experience o f the Mexico EnvSAL, two aspects are
crucial for reducing this risk.The first i s intensive supervision on the part of the Bank in
the first year o f implementation, to act as an external change agent to continuously
promote collaboration. Moreover, the agreed internal monitoring mechanisms in
government would provide early warnings if either reform actions are seriously delayed,
or if desired outcomes are indanger of not being achieved. The second, longer-term, i s
through the design of the program itself. This limits the risks under a first operation. The
EnvPRLpackage was designed so as to enhance the probability of its actual
implementation. The existence of a broad, medium-term reform agenda agreed among
several different ministries and agencies, each with their own expectations and interest in
that agenda, coupled with the sequencing of the loans and their release only upon
compliance with key policy actions (triggers), this configuration i s expected to help
maintain the momentum of reforms and reduce the risk of incomplete or delayed
implementation.

6.9     The relative institutional capacity, political influence and experience with policy
reform of the MMA compared to other sectoral agencies may result inweak
implementation. The Bank has worked with the Ministry of Environment for over a
decade, through several administrations, and the experience gained inthe process has
helped to understand MMA's institutional strengths and weaknesses. Part of the reform
actions under the proposed loan package are, therefore, meant to address weaknesses, not
only through strengthening of professional staff and reorganization, but by GOB'S
assignment of specific roles and responsibilities to MMA within a network of multiple
government ministries and agencies and groups. However, MMA i s not responsible
alone, as might be the case under a standard investment loan. Institutional risks include
also those related to the abandonment of the environmental mainstreaming agenda -
which i s at the core o f the proposed loan program-by ministries that have already
agreed to participate.

6.10    These risks will be mitigated basically through three mechanisms. A major
component of the initial operation involves raising the efficiency and effectiveness of the
environmental management system and especially strengthening the capacity of the
MMA. Monitoringwill be supported through the creation of the working group on
indicators and environmental statistics, and passage of the law guaranteeing public access
to environmental information. Coordination will be improved with the creation of and
MMA'ssubsequent participationin: a) an interagency agreement on energy licensing; b)
the National Forest Commission (CONAFLOR); c) the tripartite commission between the


                                              60

MMA,state environmental agencies andmunicipalenvironmentaldepartments; d) the
interministerial working group to combat desertification; and e) the working group on a
national solid waste policy. Beyond regular supervision missions, communications will
occur through an ongoing dialogue between the MMA and the Bank's Brasflia office at
both the policy and technical levels.

6.11 Besides, the TAL would address specifically the areas within MMA,BAMA and
other participating ministries and agencies that have already been identified by staff from
these institutions as bottlenecks and requiring training and advice. Also, it will contribute
to the implementation of the reform actions planned of all involved ministries.

6.12    Given the multisectoral nature of the reforms, particularly for the key sectors and
the different vested interests of key stakeholders, there i s a political risk that future
reforms may not actually be passedby the Congress. The engagement of Members of
Congress from different political parties as leaders of this initiative reduces the risk. The
design of the programmatic operation seeks to reduce this riskby emphasizing
coordination and consensus building,through a broad participatory and consultation
process.

6.13    Transition risks associated with changeinadministration may be at play for
EnvPRL. The programmatic design itself mitigates these risks by withholding Bank
financial support until after reforms are implemented. This enables the Bank and the
country to overcome some of the institutional constraints by raising the cross-sectoral
agenda to a higher political level and by setting out a longer-term program that transcends
the immediate government.

6.14    Finally, there i s the risk o f weak implementation of the sustainable
development programperse. This riski s probably the greatest, but i s precisely the risk
that the programmatic framework aims to reduce. By creating a financial and strategic
framework for a medium-term series of reforms across diverse areas, moving in single-
tranche operations from prior actions towards a long-term vision. Weak implementation
should further be avoided by concentrated technical assistance provided through a
complementary loan (TAL), touching all areas of the program.

(B) Reforms area carried out as agreed, but do not have the desiredoutcomes

6.15    There i s the risk that the program as defined has its impact attenuated by limited
scope. Even if GOB and the participating players carried out the entire reform agenda,
complete and intime, it would still be possible that the desired outcomes would not be
realized. Policy designs and actions proposed inthe reform agenda rest on the best
current knowledge and understanding of the issues by policy makers and Bank staff. Yet
some of the hypotheses and other underlying assumptions may (will) turn out to be
wrong. Certain mechanismmay not work as expected.

6.16    An example here is the threat of a second energy shortage. Inenergy, despite
progress toward defining the new regulatory structure, its final form remains uncertain,
and private sector investors have so far delayed large-scale investments in new generating



                                              61

capacity. This leaves open the possibility of energy once again (as in 2001) becoming a
bindingconstraint on economic growth inthe near future. The program mitigates this
riskas far as possible through due diligence inensuringthat reforms inenergy obey basic
principles of good practice. The autonomy of the regulator (ANEEL) i s being respected
and the Government's proposals are maintaining many elements of good practice
encouraged b y the recent Bank adjustment loan to the energy sector during the 2001
energy crisis. Technical Assistance from the Bank inthe energy sector further mitigates
this risk.

6.17    Another example of particular undesirable outcome that could occur would be
lack of progress inthe control of Amazon deforestation. The first loan would be made
after two years of extraordinarily highrates of deforestation (around 23,000 - 24,000 sq
kmper year, see Annex V). Itwould be undesirable ifthese rates could not be reduced
in2004 and2005, andeven less desirable should they increase. Implementationof plans
and actions to get a grip over Amazon deforestation are included inthe reform agenda.
Yet even perfect implementation of the plans and actions would take time to show lasting
effects, as the process of Amazon occupation has an enormous inertia and its own
economic motives. And some of the hypotheses and assumptions underlying the plan
may turn out wrong. Reversing the trend cannot be achieved by any set o f short-term
initiatives only.

6.18     This riskcan only be mitigated by careful monitoring not only o f program
outputs, but also of its outcomes. As well as by evaluation and critical review of the
effectiveness of policy measures and instruments. Mechanisms for monitoring and
evaluation are built into the program design (see Chapter 4).

6.19     Inconclusion, the EnvPRLIis arelatively low-risk operation since the prior
actions will have been taken by the time of Board presentation and the programmatic
context will provide incentives to maintain reform momentum. The main risk of the
EnvPRLIi s that the impacts or results will be smaller than expected. Taken together, the
three loans of the programmatic environmental reform package, it should be classified as
highrisk-highreturn. The nature of the reforms will require technical skills, political
will and negotiations to buildconsensus. These abilities are still nascent within the
Ministry of Environment. The broad country ownership paredwith investment in
monitoring, coordination and communications, along with institutional strengthening and
the sustained involvement of powerful federal agencies should help diminishthe risks
and enhance the returns o f EnvPRL.




                                           62

9




P                                          ANNEX I
                               LETTERDEVELOPMENT
                                        OF                  POLICY




                                                           Br; silia, 07    dej 3 h o de 2004


     Sr. James D.Wolfensohn
     Presidente
     BancoMundial
     Washington,DC-EUA




             Prezado Senhor,




             Esta carta tem por objetivo encaminhar               de Emprkstimo de Reforma




             Brasil- Cen6rioMacroecon8mico
             0 govemo brasileiro tem o firme compromi                   ver o crescimento em
     bases sustenthveis com inclusiio social.     Estamos                 a nova agenda de
     crescimento, com foco na reduqb das desigualdade                       ilibrio do us0 dos
     recursos naturais, fortalecendo a consistCnciade noss
             0 Pais hoje esth reconhecidamente avanq
     econemica, mediantea adoeb e manutenGlo de
     inclui, no h b i t o macroeconijmico, o combate e
     sobre a renda das camadasmais pobres da populaqiio
     queda de juros reais de mkdio prazo, enquanto o re
     dando suporte ao exitoso ajuste extemo
     Adicionalmente, o perfil e a composiqb da divida p6              melhorado em matiplos
     aspectos, reduzindo a vulnerabilidadedo pais a choques
             Olhando mais A fiente, a dehiq2io de politicas p        paraumBradsustengvel
     depende de mudanpas na forma de atuaeh das e
     produtivo, das organizagt5es da sociedade, che
     Para isto, C precis0 ampliar a noqb de des



                                                                                             1

 como uma construgb coletiva capm de gerar qualidade              lnas dimensees ambiental,
 econtjmica e social. 0 sucesso desta construggo                    definigiio de prioridades
 eprojetos e reformas estruturais.


         Recentesavanqos macroecondmicos
         N o an0 de 2003, a economia
 desfavorhvel do an0 de 2002, com o indicador de                     em patamar superior a
 2.000 pontos-base, taxas de inflagb no L U ~ O                          de mais de 30% ao
 an0 e taxa de c h b i o em patamar prhimo a
 para recuperar a credibilidade napolitica
 criar as condigties para o atendimento de
 Presidente Lula: a queda sustenthvel
 econ6mico. A0 fm de um an0 e meio, o c h b i o estabild )u-se por volta de R$3,00 por
 dblar, a intlwBo caiude quae 20% a0 an0 paramenos de 3%ao ano, e a economia esth
                                                             1
 se recuperando, com o PlB crescendo a taxas anualizadas le 6% ao an0 nos dois atimos
 trimestres.
         Desde antes de sua posse, em janeiro de 2003, a govemo jh deixou claras as
 grandes W a s de sua politica macroecontjmica, basea la na responsabilidade fiscal
 visando A estabilidade econtjmica. AlCm desse compromi so fundamental, o objetivo 6,
 tambh, de promover mudangas estruturais com vistas 21 :onsolidag5o da canfianga, da
 transparencia e da boa administrag2io dos bancos 1 liblicos e das agencias de
 desenvolvimento.
         A politica fiscal firme quevem sendo implementad pelo govemo representauma
                                                              i
 nova fase do ajuste fiscal no Brasil. Enquanto na dkac a de 1980 a solugb para os
 desequilfbrios fiscais do governo foi baseada pri~           cipalmente na acomodaqiio
 inflacionhria, a partir de 1995, o controle da inflaggo viu- e acompanhado pel0 aumento
 de carga tributfiria, que passou de 28% para 36% do PIB no periodo, enquanto a divida
 liquida do setor ptiblico passou de 30% para 57% do PIB. Emvista da grave situagZo da
 divida publica, o novo governo assumiu compromisso COI       ia meta de superhit primfvio
 de 4,25% do PIB, efetiva em 2003, 2004 e, como in(icado pela Lei de Diretrizes
 0rp"tirias      enviada em abril de 2004, tambCmpara 200 5-7.
         klCmdisso, o governo decidiu romper em2003 cc mo modelo at6 entb vigente,
 optando pelarealizqgo deumajuste fiscal baseadoem        COI tes de despesas, por considerar
 que o aumento da carga tributhria penaliza as atividades pi Idutivase dificulta aretomada
,da atividade econ6mica. Os resultados de 2003 mostram qi e o governo superou a meta de
 superhvit primfvio estabelecida, ao gerar um superhit pi mhio de 4,37% do PIB, sem
 incorrer em aumento de receitas. As receitas federais com proporgiio do PIE3 cairam em
                                                              1
 2003.
         Cumpre destacar que a politica fiscal C consistent : com o objetivo de promover
 um ajuste estrutural das contas ptiblicas, assegurandosua solvencia intertemporal. Neste
 contexto, deve-se ressaltar a importfincia da Reforma la Previdencia proposta pelo
 govemo em2003 e aprovada pel0 Congress0 no mesmo ar: D, fundamental para alcangar o
 equilibrio de long0 prazo das contas ptiblicas e assegur, r o direito de todo cidadb A
 aposentadoria, comprometido emumsistema desequilibrac 0.




                                                                                            2

 - .
   a
  .'
i




 - 1

w




                Para o an0 de 2004, hi expectativa de              mico de 3,5% e uma
        taxa de inflagHo dentro do interval0 fixado pel             o Nacional. Ressalte-
        se que a politica monetiriaconduzida pel0 Banco       alelamente a politica fiscal,
        foi decisiva no combate A infla@to. 0 sucesso de
        bhica dejuros, que iniciouuma trajetbria de queda,
        de 2003, para 16,5% ao an0 em dezembro de                ,0% em abril de 2004,
        confirmando uma trajet6ria de redug80 progressiva.       0, as taxasdejuros reais
        encontram-se no menor patamar verificado                      endo a rptomada do
        crescimento em bases sustenthveis. Para os pr6       ses, com o alinhvento das
        expectativas idlacionhias do mercado B meta d        do Banco Central, espera-se
        que a taxa bhsica de juros continue sua             ante. A trnjct6ria. aliada aos
        efeitos positivos do equilibrio fiscal, fav
        crescimento econdmico,
                0ajusteextemoteveumpregoem2003,
        foi rela~vamentepequeno quando comparado c
        Am6rica Latina, que experimentarm qu
        extemos damagnitudedaquele concluido pelo Brasil
                Em2004, a economia brasileiradeverh               ada pela recqperagzo do
        nivel de absorplo dom6stica e tambh pelas                 deverlo continuar a ter
        desempenhofavorhvel.
                0 desempenhofavorhvel das co                              2003 merece ser
        ressaltado. Ao longo do an0 de 2002,
        ajustado, reduziram-se em US$ 11,5 bilh8es. 0         direto estrangeiro caiu 45%
        no segundo semestre de 2002, em relaqAo ao m          de 2001. A taxa ,derolagem
        dos d6bitos do setor privado passou de
        de 2002. As politicas empreendidas no Cltimo an         conseguiram rqverter este
        quadro. 0 superiivit comercial em 2003 alcangou a      s US$ 24,8 bilhbes, houve
        uma recuperapb do financiamento extern0 de me         ongo prazos e ii-s reservas
        internacionais v2m crescendo.
                Ressalte-se a importante redug
        dez anos de resultados negativos, a c
        em 2003 superhvit de US$ 4,l bilh6
        realizado pel9 govemo brasileiro PO
        ddficit em conta corrente atingiu U
        setor extemo nos cinco primeiros m
        desempenho das exportapbes, o qu
        que o gerado em 2003.
                Paralelamente, o govemo
        estruturais, capazes de favorecer
        sustenthvel. A l h da Reforma da P
        produzir6 em termos fiscais, merec
        objetivo racionalizar o sistema
        tributhria.
                A par com a politica
        importante agenda microeco
        garantindo maior acesso da


                                                                                          3

econ6micos. Estapolitica tempor base o objetivo maior       garantir a sustentabilidade do
crescimento econ6mico. Essa sustentabilidade requer        ersos elementos, que v30 de
garantir a melhor distribuiqb de renda de forma a an      .ar a base de acumulaqiio do
capital human0 iipreservaqlo do meio ambiente, para        e as futuras geraqbes nzo se
vejam oneradas indevidamente pela degradaqlo deste x      )  ambiente. Para esse fun, o
governo vem, no ultimo an0 e meio, desenvolvendo u m a    tie de aqaes, com importantes
resultados j h alcanqados e estruturando um plan0 para     , prbximos anos, incluindo o
fortalecimento do Ministtrio do Meio Ambiente.


        A SustentabilidadeAmbientalBrasileira
        0 Brasilpossui, alCmdeumarcabouqolegislatit       :omplexo e avanqado, um dos
mais modemos sistemas de gesti4o do meio ambie             . 0     pais vem avanqando
significativamente nesta agenda, de forma continua. 0 c   saste com alguns anos atrhs d
impressionante. Por vhrias dtcadps, foram implementada    oliticas em que todos perdem,
inclusive o meio ambiente, muitas na forma de subsidios
        Por outro lado, recentemente, pode-se destacar,     neste governo, a aprovaq80,
pela Chara dos Deputados, dos projetos de lei da M a      4tlhtica e de Biosseguranqa,
ap6s ampla mobilizaq3o e discussgo da sociedade. E        :s projetos encontram-se, no
momento, em discuss30 no Senado Federal. Adicil           hente, houve o inicio da
implantaqiio do Plan0 de Prevenqlo e Controle do          smatamento (PPCD) para a
AmazGnia, elaborado por catone ministhrios 00contextc        ampla transversalidade, altm
da participaqiio de oito governadores de Estado e in! iiqbes da sociedade civil. 0
objetivo deste programa t desacelerar, em period0 relat   mente curto, o desmatamento
daquele importantebioma.
        Como observado acima, o marco regulat6rio e i itucional encontra-se bastante
avangado, em funqlo de uma evoluqb continua nc W m o s 10-15 anos ap6s a
redemocratizaqb do pais, com razohvel grau de descen       izaqiio e participaqiio phblica.
Ainda assim, outros avanqos s b necessiirios, entre os qu   a adequaqlo e efetividade dos
instrumentos hoje existentes e a priorizaqb de muds       IS   em setores cujas politicas
podem afetar negativamente o meio ambiente (transv        didade setorial), Hb tambh
espaqo para que o planejamento consistente com a Legic    50AmbientalBrasileirae sua
observbcia possam ser melhorados e ampliados em todc      IS  niveis de govemo.
        Um importante aspect0 das mudanqas na b e          mbiental 6 a participaqzo e
controle social no process0 de definiqlo de diretrize     :prioridadesparaapolitica
ambiental. No Brasil, as organizaqijes nlo govemamc       tis e movimentos sociais tdm
encontrado campo aberto para atuar, com forte apoio in ncional do govemo, inclusive
pela transferdncia de recursos orqamenthios de             nificativa magnitude. Essas
organiza@es tern muitas vezes cumprido um papel           idmental, contribuindo para
levantar problemas e apontar soluqijes para as quest6     ambientais no Brasil. Com a
realizaqlo, no final do an0 passado, da 1" Conferihc:     Vacional do Meio Ambiente,
foram trazidos para esta discussiio diversos segmentos      sociedade, que incorporam a
varihvel ambiental em suas prhticas e prioridades         ntre os quais comunidades
tradicionais, povos indigenas, cooperativas, clubes de s  iqos e grupos de empres6rios.
Estes grupos t h merecido, com variada intensidadi        apoio hanceiro do governo
brasileiro, inclusive como vetores de implementaqTiode 1   iticas publicas.




                                                                                         4

        Emvista da complexidade e abranghcia das                ientais, o govemo tem
dado crescente dnfase A implementapLo da trans                     outros setores e a
descentralizaplo do Sistema Nacional do Meio                    ISNAMA). Este, por
enquanto, s6 conseguiu criar insthcias municipais
dos municipios brasileiros e, portanto, pode se
institucional.
        No mundo inteiro     -    e nlo seria difer       o -Brad, grandes desafios
permanecem, tanto em termos da reversb da traj            de us0 n b sustenthvel dos
recursos naturais como quanto da consolidaglo de                   Bo mais consistente,
articulado e efetivo. No primeiro caso, destacam-s                  os de combate aos
desmatamentos na Amazdnia e Mata Atlktica,
criticas no Sul e Sudeste do pais e a poluipb do
abordagem de problemas localizados de poluiqlo
sistema de gest50, revela-se a necessidade de                capacidade institucional,
coordenapIo depoliticas setoriais e introduplo de ins      s de estimulo efetivos.
        Tambh 6 necessiuio enfrentar a l p s t
questties: produpiio de energia para o crescim
produtos derivados da madeira e necessidade de incre        os servipos de provislo de
Bgua e esgotos. Para resolver estes desafios, sem
ambiente, slo necessiuios esforgos coordenados e
umamelhor qualificapb do sistema de gestiio ambiental.
        Conforme se demonstrark a seguir, muito
muito ahda restapor fazer. Porbm, mais import
dar especial 8nfase ao compromisso de gov
forte, e ambicioso que nos aproxime da su
do programadeste governo.


        Proposta de umEmprkstimo de Reforma Pr
        0 govemo brasileiropropdeaoBanco
ambientalpor intermkdio de uma operapb de cr6dito               programhica. Todas as
condipties atuais do setor ambiental brasileiro fazem           operaqgo seja oportuna
para o pais e o apoio do Banco Mundial C um eleme
pel0 seu aspect0de assistenciatkcnica em algumas keas.
        Um programa de sucesso neste setor deveri                qiiencia de operaqSes
distintas de desembolso rhpido e seletividad
jh existente. Alkm disso, ele deveria promover e fa                e implementaplo de
politicas, programas e instnunentos em setores econd         ave e no pr6prio sistema
ambiental; monitorax seus impactos e resultados e ser        de modo que incorpore a
experibcia obtida ap6s avaliapb do resultado                      edentes e eventuais
problemas emergentes no curso de sua execugb.
        Para sua implementaplo, pretende-se n                      rporar as reformas
existentes e aquelas necessiuias, mas tambkm as princip         ersalidades com outros
setores da economia. Contudo, n%o seria razohvel                 todo o universo das
transversalidades do sistema ambiental, pois e                        a excessivamente
amp10e de dificil execuplo. Assim, o Ministkri                        geu os setores em


                                                         I                            5

                                                           1
que os di logos encontram-se mais adiantados, permit', do evoluqb considerhve
                                                           I
h b i t o de um programa desta natureza. Em vis& disto, organizamos o Programa em
torno de 10t6picos, listados a seguir:
         I CapacidadeInstitucionaledeGestiio;
         IIBiodiversidade,heasProtegidaseRecursosForestais;
         IU RecursosHidricos e Combate tt Desertificaq5o
          ---
         IV- Instrumentos Econhmicos;
         V Licenciamento, QualidadeAmbiental eEmerg ncias Ambientais;
         VI Transversalidade Meio Ambiente eDesenvol         '  ento Agrhio;
         VI1 Transversalidade-MeioAmbiente eCidades
           ---                -

         VIII- Transversalidade -Meio Ambiente e Turism ;
         IX Transversalidade-MeioAmbienteeIntegraq oNacional; e
            -
         X Transversalidade MeioAmbiente eEnergia.
           -                  -                             4
         Cada uma das hreas temhticas 6 apresentada             do-se: a) elementos gerais
que facilitem a definpb do tema; b) umbreve diagn               hrea; c) a identificaqzo dos
principais problemas e pontos fortes; e) uma descriq            ficada das principais aqBes
jii efetivadas por nosso governo e f) a descriqgo da           a futura que o governo se
esforparhpor desenvolver para o respectivo tema.
         Ressalte-se que a transversalidade que est               o do Programa proposto
implica a participa@o de diversos brglos al6m $0                  o Meio Ambiente e suas
entidades vinculadas, a Agencia Nacional de Agu                   o Instituto Brasileiro do
                                                            F
Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renovhveis                 ) e o Instituto de Pesquisa
Jardim Botbico do Rio de Janeiro (JBRJ). Assim, tamb6 fazem parte do Programa os
Ministkrios das Minas e Energia (MME), da Int graqzo Nacional (MI), do
Desenvolvhnento Agrtkio (MDA), das Cidades (MCID) do Turismo (MTUR) e da
Fazenda (MF).


         I CapacidadeInstitucionaledeGest.%o
          -
         A Gestgo Ambiental est6 estruturada em tomo        C.0 Sistema Nacional de Meio
Ambiente (SISNANLA). Sua concepqb tem origem na L e i no6.938, de 3 1 de agosto de
1981, que disp6e sobre a Politica Nacional de Meio Ambiente. A Lei estabelece
conceitos, principios, objetivos, mecanismos de aplicaqlo e de formulaqlo, inshmentos
e penalidades. Instituitambh o Conselho Nacional de Meio Ambiente (CONAMA).
         0 SISNAMA surge, nesse contexto, com a intenqLo de estabelecerumconjunto
articulado de 6rgiios, entidades, regras e prhticas responshveispelaproteqb e melhoria da
qualidade ambiental, estruturando-se por meio dos seguintes niveis politico-
administrativos: a) brgbs superiores, compostos pel0 Corselho de governo, que reiine a
Casa Civil da PresidCnciada Rephblica e todos os ministros, com a funqb de assessorar
o Presidente da Repiiblica na formulaqb da Politica Nacional e das diretrizes nacionais
para o meio ambiente e os recursos naturais; b) cjrgiia coasultivo e deliberativo, o


                                                                                           6

CONANA, que rehe os diferentes setores da sociedade :om cariitef normatizador dos
instrumentos da politica ambiental; c) 6 r g b central, c   MMA; d) 6rg2o executor, o
IBAMA; e) 6rgbs seccionais, que correspondem aos rganismos estaduais de meio
ambiente e 0 6rgIos locais, que correspondem aos organ mosmunicipais ou locais.
        A Cowtituigiio de 1988 instituiu como principio le a capacidadede atuagiio do
                                                         I
Estado na irea ambiental baseia-se na id6ia de respon ibilidade compartiihada entre
UniZo, estados, Distrito Federale municipios e entre essee :os setoresda sociedade.
        Com base em tal principio, foram criados vS os instrumentos. N o h b i t o
govemamental, muitos instmentos estb voltados priori uiamente a aqdes e comando
e controle. Outros, mais modemos, prevCem aprevenglo n\.alia$io trpriori e impactos
                                                                              li
                                                           1
ambientais. Podemos citar o licenciamento ambiental, cor a obrigatoriedade de estudos e
relat6rios para obras potencialmmte danosas ao meio unbiente ou a institiiiqio do
cadastro tkcnico federal de atividades impactantes. As ;ertificagbes e o Toneamento
ecol6gico econ6mico do territ6rio foram criados e estlo iciando suainip1311tq 3 0 1
          -
        No entanto, os instrumentos vigentes necessitam ie fortalecimento. Em muitos
casos, necessitam de reforgo ou mddificaglo de sua bas legal, aumentandolo nivel do
controle social.
        Para fortalecer o sistema, e consquentemente a estzo na &-eaambiental, pel0
menos os seguintes aspectos merecem ser discutidos          m maior profundidade: a) o
aumento da base de SustentagBo social das politicas amb ntais; b) a descentqalizagb da
gestb ambiental; c) a disponibilidade de informagbes o      etivas e sistCmicad e d) a sua
transversalidade com as diversas Areas da atividade econ6 ica.
        Ademais, os 6rgbs que comp8em o sistema, no damente no seu nivel federal,
necessitam de estrutura fisica e recursos humanos COI       lizentes com os objetivos de
melhoria da eficiencia e efichcia de sua atuaqiio.
        0govemo, pel0seulado,j ifez muitonestadireq         ),nos 6ltimos 18 meses, como
podemos informar: a) criamos carreiras de especialistas ei  meio ambiente epromovemos
concursos ptiblicos, pois o MMA 1150 tem quadros pr61       ios disponiveis; b) estudamos
uma nova Politica de Recursos Humanos para o MMA suas entidades vinculadas; c)
estamos reestruturando o MMA; d) instituimos o Cons ho de GestZo do IBAMA; e)
criamos as ComissBes Tripartites; f) realizamos a primeir   Conferencia Naciopal de Meio
Ambiente; g) aprovamos uma Lei de Transparencia dt informaq6es ambientais e h)
criamos um gmpo de trabalbo para estudar indicadores : estatisticas ambientais, entre
outrastantas agBes e iniciativas.
        Continuaremos as aqdes para o fortalecimento dc MMA, por meio de uma nova
estrutura administrativa e promoggo de novos concurs        s p6blicos para o IBAMA e
MMA, capacitagb continuada dos servidores do si ema, criaqb de sistemas e
instrumentos modemos e efetivos de gestao ambiental, c ntinuidade da descentralizagiio
mediante CapacitagBo dos municipios e da d e f ~ g t das
                                                      o     stbcias e competbcias legais
dos diversos intervenientes no sistema, dentre outras ag8e


        IIBiodiversidade,keasProtegidaseRecursr Florestais
          -

 espkcies endemicas do globo. Grande parte dessa riquezt
        8 Brasilpossui entre 15% e20% dabiodiversidal :)iol6gica
                                                              mundiale o maior n h e r o de
                                                                      ainda k desconhecida



                                                                                         7

* .
 '




       OU pouco utilizada. 0 pais abriga tamb                          onstituida por povos
                                                                s de coco babaqu e outras
                                                                   associados ao us0 da
                                                                  a Diversidade Biol6gica
       (CDB). A conservaqiio desse patrim6nio requer a        e prhticas de proteqgo, mas
       tambh de us0 sustenthvel desses recursos naturai        ais. Assim, as cbmunidades
       tradicionais devem ser beneficiadas de forma             equitativa pelos recursos
       provenientes do acesso a este saber,
       Congress0Nacional.
              N a histdria econ6mica do Bras                             re estevs associada
       ao us0 extensivo       dos recwsos
       economicamente. A expansb agricola
       e mistria social. A urbanizaqb sem planejament               do, os desrpatamentos
       acelerados, o us0 de tecnologias imprbprias na                florestal, bdustrial e
       agropecuhia, alCm de obras de infra-estrutura imp1       sem os devidos cuidados,
       esGo entre as principais formas de de
       esses fatos, a introduqilo de espkies
       de recursos para apesquisa, esthulos
       emvolume adequados b fatores conc
               Hoje, todos os biomas brasileiros                indicaq8o de perdas da
       biodiversidade. 0 cas0 mais agudo t o da                 que conta atuabente com
       menos de 7% de sua 6rea original, tendo se              ,comeqadohhmais de 500
       anos, se aceleradono skulo XIX.
               Outro fator que pode constituir ameaqa A        A flora nativas t o us0 de
       organismos geneticamente modificados (OGMs) sem                 cuidados. 0 govern0
       tem Clara a importhcia de estabelecerem-se diretrizes           anqa e apeyfeiqoarem-
       se os mecanismos de combate li biop
       o ante projeto de lei de bioss
       no Senado.
              A diversidade biold
       economia e seguranqadaNaqb, constituindo-se umav            comparativaquepode ser
       mais explorada. A manute                                    damental para garantir o
       controle de pestes e doenq                              to de variedades agricolas e
       de produtos industriais ou ngo, tais como                fitoterhpicos, f h a c o s ou
       alimentos. Al6m desses s
       clima, na purificaqb do
       papelno ciclo de nutrientes.




              A Politica Nacio

       protqHo da diversidade biol6gica brasileira.


                                                                                            8

        Uma das estrattgias para a conservaglo da      B a criaglo de keas
protegidas. A recomendaglo intemacional seria          de 10% de Unidades
de Protqlo Integral por bi
encontra-se nesta condiggo
Conservagb (VCs) nlo r
prestam servigos ambientai
que vivem no localou em s
do ecoturismo, al6m de
produtivos locais e slo
nasregi6esmaisdesassistidas.


9.985, de 2000, uniformizou os critkrios
primeiros passos para a institucionalizagl



regulamentado nem disp6e da infra-
efetivagb. Outro desafio para o fort
popular.
        A valorizaqlo, o manejo e
desafios do govemo e da sociedade brasileira,
experi&xias entre comunidades e setores da so
aos seus produtospor meio da tecnologia.
        As florestas representam 64,3 % do t
em sua maioria nativas. Altm do papel na
para a produqBo de madeira, papel e celulose, m6ve
consumo dombstico, sem coatar os produtosnlo madeir
borracha, castanhas, gomas nlo elhstic
responshvel por m aparcela do-desprezivel do
vista disto, h6 evidente mbrito em que toda a re
seja napesquisa, na agregaglo de valor ouna ut^
seja fortalecida.
        A realidade brasileira demandaum
gnfase na promoqb do manejo, inch
identi5cado a importiincia de uma
ambiental e produglo sustenthvel
tradicionais. Deve-se promover o
manejadas e plantadas, nos merc
        0 govern0 brasileiro, nos
promover: a) a inclusb na agenda
criaglo dos Grupos de Trabalho
Comissb Nacional de Biodivers
Cartagena sobre Biosseguranga e
Leas Protegidas da Amaz6nia (ARPA).
        A situaggo critica da M
sociedade, que, com a aqlo decis


                                                                         9

-.1 .




         Chars dos Deputados do projeto de lei da MataAt1
         Federal. A continuidade dos esforqos
         conservqb destes remanescentes e at
         a aprovaqsiono Congress0Brasileiro e sua implement
                 No que se refere A quest50 florestal, o gov     ao Iongo dos tiltimos meses,
         realizando e promovendo aqdes na direqiio de mu        idade extrativa brasileira, das
         quais podemos ressaltar: a>a criaqHo do Plano            a Atividade Florestal; b) o
         lanqamento e constituiq3o da Comissgo Nac                  as (CONAFLOR); c) o
         lanqamento do Plano para Prevenqiio e Contro
         proposto pel0 grupo interministerial;
         apreendido e e) a minuta do ante proj
         encaminhada A CasaCivil.
                 Olhando para a fi-ente, o govern0 deve
         a reduqBo das taxas de desmatamento na
         Mata Atlhtica; b) a aprovaqb de polit
         Conhecimento Trpdicional; c) a regulamentqiio e                     da nova L e i de
         Biosseguranqa; d) a regulamentaqiio da legislapH0
         especificamente em relaqb As florestas; e) a el
         Reflorestamento e Recuperqqb de k e a s
         de cobranqa da taxa de Reposig5oFlorest
         as atividades de manejo flokestal e h) a
         nomenor prazo possivel.


                 IlIRecursosHidricoseCom
                    -
                 0 Brasilpossui 12 Regides Hidr
         Recursos Hidricos (CNRH), nas quais a
         bastante diferenciadas. Existem regid
         qualidade, enquanto outras sLo semi-6ri
         as ireas urbanas com shios problemas                            aqiies. Emum s6culo
         apenas, a populaq3o brasileira triplicou e o cons
         Estima-se que mais de 30% da &pa coletadapela
         reservat6rio e o consumidor, devido aproblemas
         operaqHo. Soma-se a isto o desperdicio prov
         domtstico.
                 Outro aspect0 relevante C o da qualid
         relacionada As formas de us0 e ocupaq6o dos
         urbano. Como em muitos paises, o crescimento                s tem provocado a sua
         impermeabilizaqZo, com a conseqiiente reduq3o da            da Agua das chuvas e o
         aumento da produqZio de residuos s6lidos e es
         do esgoto urbano passa por estaqso de tratam
         Os rios recebem ainda efluentes das indhtrias ePO
         de produtos quimicos e de petrbleo, entre outros.           s cidades brasileiras t8m
         sistema de manejo de residuos s6lidos eficient
                 No meio rural, atividades agropecufias, quando   zidas de forma inadequada,
         provocam o a c h u l o de agrot6xicos e nutrientes no     e na hgua. A reduqb da
         cobertura vegetal, as praticas agricolas imp


                                                                                             10

grande declividade e a degradaglo das pastagens provoc un eroslo e assoreamento. A
reduggo da qualidade da hgua tem efeitos negativos dire    DS em toda a cadeia de seres
vivos da regib afetada.
       A degradaqlo ambiental afeta a sociedade de forr    B diferenciada, atiogindo com
maior rigor as populagaes mais pobres das periferie          dos centros urbanos e as
comunidades rurais de baixa renda. Esta 6 uma E ruaglo desfavorhvel para o
desenvolvimento sustentiivel. E precis0 mudar paradigma e fortalecer iniciativas que se
baseiam nosprincipios estabelecidosnas Metas do MilCnic ena Agenda 21.
       Apesar dos evidentes desafios que ainda existem, i Gestiiodos Recursos Hidricos
no Brasil teve vhios avangos nos 6ltimos tempos, por n :io da promulgaglo da Lei no
9.433, de 1997, a qual define a bacia hidrogrhfica comc a unidade de plaqejamento e
gestlo de recursoshidricos e estabelecediversos principio: para a sua gestlo,
       Al6m da Lei Federal e da criaglo da AgCncia N :ions1 de Aguas (ANA) e do
Conselho Nacional de Recursos Hidricos (CNRH), v rias 1egislagBes ehtaduais de
Recursos Hidricos foram promulgadas e instalados brj Zos estaduais de gestb. Foi
tamb6m implantado o Sistema Nacional de Gerencia iento de Recursoo Hidricos,
ampliada e qualificada a RedeNacional de Qualidade e QI mtidade de Agua, $em como a
Rede de Monitoramento e InformagBes Hidrolbgicas. A 1      iuio iniciou a implementaglo
da outorga paraus0 da hguapor meio da ANA e fwam in dantados sistemas volunthrios
de cobranga pelo us0 da hgua, no Estado do Cearh e n: Bacia do Paraiba do Sul (rio
federal).
       No Govern0 Federal, mesmo considerando a exi iiidade de tempo, wuito j 6 se
fez, nesteparticular: a) preparou-se umdocumento referer :idpara a elaboragb do Plano
Nacional de RecursosHidricos; b) foi criada a C h a r a Ti ;nica de Cobranga gelo Us0 da
Agua no h b i t o do CNRH; c) implantou-se o sistema piloto de alerta pata eventos
criticos no rio Paraiba do Sul; d) a Rede de Monitoran mto e o Sistema Macional de
Informaqaes Hidrometeorolbgicas continuaram sendo implementadas; e> mais de
cinquenta Comites de Bacia foram criados; f ) editou- :uma Medida Provisbria, jh
aprovada no Congresso, que garante que as receitas d cobrangas pela h p a sejam
revertidas para as respectivas Bacias; g) foi criado um Grupo Interminist&ial      para a
proposiglo de um Plano Nacional de Combate B Desertif :aglo e h) definiu-$e o escopo
deumPlano deAglo Nacionalde Combate iiDesertificag         3.

        Para os prbximos 30 meses, estiio planejadas as s guintes agBes prioritirias: a) a
manutenplo e a melhoria da Rede de Monitoramento de &alidade e de Quantidade da
Agua e do SistemaNacional de Informagaes Hidrometeor lbgicas; b) o apoio aos estados
na gestlo dos recursos hidricos; c) a expansiio dos sist mas de alerta hidrol6gico nas
Bacias dos Rios Slo Francisco e Doce; d) o langamento e hplantagfo do Plano Nacional
de Recursos Hidricos e do Plano Nacional de Combate h lesertificaglo; e) a elaboragiio
de Planos para as bacias prioritirias; f) a criaglo de, pel menos, seis novos ComitCs e
                                                           1
Agbncias de Agua e g) a regulamentaglo da lei que estabc ece mecanismos de cobranpa e
outorga de hguae sua implementagb nas Bacias priorithi S.




                                                                                        11

         n7 Instrumentos EconBmicos
            -
         A enfase na Area ambiental tem sido em politic s de comando e controle. No
entanto, a construglo conjunta do desenvolvimento sus znthvel pode ser grandemente
favorecida pelaimplementaggo de umconjunto de instrun: mtos e incentivos econhicos.
         A inclusb de principios, tais como do Usuiuio-Pa gador ou Poluidor-Fagador, em
instrumentos de politica fiscal 6 urn exemplo de altemati as que merecem sei avaliadas.
Ressaltamos, no entanto, que qualquer proposta a ser        studada deve prevqr, alkm da
sustentabilidade ambiental, os aspectos inerentes its nec essidades fiscais. @da    nesta
linha, 6 preciso avaliar e estudar meios de reativar os con promissos do Protoqolo Verde,
por parte dos Bancos piiblicos, eventualmente abrind          o Protocolo Bs PstituigSes
privadas que assim o entenderem, de forma consent nea com os recdsos fiscais
disponiveis.
         A amplia+io   da Agenda Ambiental da Administrz ;lo Publica visandq B incluslo
de crit6rios ambientais nas compras piiblicas 6 uma op :Bo que, ainda que1incipiente,
tamb6m merece ser objeto de estudosmais aprofundados.
         No que se refere aos instrumentos econbicos, tar Ib6mf o r m realizadiosavancos.
como demo&trado a seguir: a) inclusPo
Ambiente no Capitulo da Ordem Ec
diferenciado confome o impact0 ambientaldos pr                   90s (EC no. 42/2003); b)
inclus?io de crit6rios ambientais em algunsmarcos re
foi o cas0 do ICMS ecol6gico e do Impost0 Te
introdu@o de criterios de Desenvolvimento
Constitucionais, inclusive com a criaGIo de p p
Constitucional do Centro Oeste (FCO); c) inicio d
avaliar a inclusb de crit6rios de sustentabilidade amb
criaggo de grupo de trabalho interministerial para                e efetiva utilizaqgo do
Protocolo Verde e instrumentos congeneres.
         0 govern0 tem ainda uma ampla agenda
econhicos, da qual ressaltamos: a) realizar di
de politicas fiscal e tributhia passiveis de
ambiental; b) elaborar propostas de medidas
para induzir a sustentabilidade ambiental;
ambiental para os Fundos Constitucionais, p
Tempo de Seniqo (FGTS) e para os bancos                         d) rever e prodor medidas
de revitaliza$b do Protocolo Verde por                         o entre as agSn+ias oficiais
de credito, o MMA e o MJ?; e) monitorar                         instrumentos +conijmicos
eventualmente criados e f) aplicar e monito
ambientais elaborados para os instrumento
ambiciosa, que exigirh continuo trabalho
avangos efetivos.


         V Licenciamento, Qualidade Ambiental eEmergencias Ambientais
          -
         A atual forma do licenciamento ambiental no Brasil 6 uma cqnquista da
sociedade, a qual entende e aceita a importhcia hist6ricaJe ate cultural, da qonservagfo
do meio ambiente. Constitui-se o principal instnunento du gestIo utilizado pelos 6rgBos



                                                                                        12

. _


       ambientais, provavelmente o mais sofistic                        -se a outros paises
       em desenvolvimento. Devido a seu form                            ados e municipios
       o maior n h e r o de atividades a serem li              go do tempo, temas sociais
       foram incorporados, a l h do enfoque estri
       atividade, independente do aparelhamento
       m a apgo rhpida e segura nesse
       complementaridade baseada emincentivo aboasprhticas.
                E necessiiria a aproximaqlo co
       sentido de internalizar a questlo
       investimentos. Esses setores Seqii
       especial o licenciamento, como m a etapa de exe         seus projetos. Quando mal
       conduzido, tal processo acaba transformando o           ento no desaguadouro das
       questaes s6cio-ambientais nlo reso
       estudo das obras. Nesses casos, cri
       pobres, e o meio natural, slo pen
      judicial e perdas econamicas, so
       desafio de enfrentar estas quesr6
                Os maiores desafios s b edentados pelos          de infra-estrutura fisica,
       principalmente energia e transportes, ambos de respons    e dos organismos federais
       de meio ambiente, em especialo IBAMA.
                0 licenciamento passaporumconjunto depro          os quais se destacam: a)
       as deficiecias institucionais do IBAMA, em alguns
       meios operacionais; b) as deficiencias de outras ins
       licenciamento; c) prhticas adotadas pelos empreend
       muitas vezes, nlo apresentam
       empreendimegto sem informar                                cenciamento; d) as aqaes
       promovidas pel0 Ministkno                                  stionam com frequhcia
       aspectos dos licencinmentos.
       m f i t o tCcnico do projcto ou
       processo; e) os conflitw SOC
       deshguamna fase do licenciamento ambientale, fmalm        os conflitos legais, como 6
       o cas0 da regularizapiio de
       sobreo licenciamento.
                 Ainda no tema da Qualidade Ambiental,         tem avanqado bastante na
       implementapb de novas ferramentas, como k o cas0        iaplo Ambiental Estratkgica
       (AAE), da criaqlo das Comissbes Tripartites Es           e da Comiss?io Tripartite
       Nacional, em que os trds niveis de govern0 bus                conceitos e modos de
       aqIo e definir melhor o seupapel, em acordo com              naldeMeioAmbiente.
       Deve-se destacar adicion
       Meio Ambiente (C
       licenciamentoe a
                 Na mesma direqzo, o controle de us0 de agrot6     de substbcias quimicas




                                                                                         13

       Nasquestaes de aperfeiqoamento do instrumento oudo sistema de licenciamento
ambiental, o Govern0 Federal promoveu no liltimo periodo: a) estudos sobre o estado da




aumento da transparencia das informaqaes sobre o licenciamento ambientd,a partir da
Leino.10.650, de 2003, que trata do acesso 9, informaq6es ambientais.
       N a gestb da qualidade ambiental, destacam-se: a) a publicaggo de qecreto que

trata da destinaqb final de embalagensvazias de agrot6xico.se a Resoluqlo do. 314, que
trata da gestio de agrot6xicos; b) apromulgaqb da Resolqlo no.334 do CONAMA, que




                                                          I                          14

- -


       e crit&ios    de avaliaqb de impactos. Tais med                      e estudos futures e
       discussgo com a sociedadepara seuprogress0 e p
                  No que diz respeito aos aspectos da                        Ambiental, tem-se
       destacado entre os objetivos                                       medidas : a) fortalecer
       tknica e operacionalmente a                                       iamento de riscos de
       contaminapiio por substhcias                                          mativos a0 us0 de
       agrot6xicos e afm; c) av
       reparaqIo de danos de tire
       tecnol6gicos e metodol6gicos
       mapear rotas vulnerheis de transporte de s                  as; f) identificar e selecionar
       substbcias e produtos de maior preocupapio em r             rhfico ilegal; g) dewinVI\er
       mecanisplos para a identificapgo de fontes polui            eas de risco; h) atualizar a
       proposta de PoUtica Nacional de Residu
       informaqaes atualizadas sobre o consumo,                             ecolosicolSgico de
       agrot6xicos e a h ; j) implementar o PROMER;
       combate ao trAfico ilegnl de substhcias proibidas ou c
       inadequada de substhci
       instrumentos de coqbole e
       revisar o Plan0 de Aggo Federal para
       gerais de ordenamento a paxtir do M a
       Programa Nacional de Monitoranymto
       um grupo de trabalho para elabo
       Carcinicultura; r) desenvolver cat61
       implantados como p610 de atratividade; s) aplicar o
       Portukia, em conjunto com o MT e t) implantar o S               de Monitoramento, com
       expedipb de relat6riosperi6dicos de
                  Esta ambiciosa agenda dev
       priorizaqb e discussgo com a sooi
       m&o prazo.
                  Em relapiio As emerghci
       diversificada, podendo-se, entre vtirias aqijes, citar: a)
       disponibilizando um Banco de D
       os Recursos Humanos dos mesmos; b) integraqgo dos s
       Bacias do rio SBo Francisco e Doce ao P2R2 e c) a e
       estruturaqb das heas de emerghcias ambientais no
       aos estaclos e BAMA no mape
       de dados de substhiasperigosas.


                  VI-Transversalidade Meio Ambientee
                                      -                                      Agrhrio
                  Quaseumtergo da                                               vivem nos 4.500
       municipios do Bras4                                                           considerados
       rcrururbanos",assim chamados por suas
       urbanas e rurais. Em 1.109 municipios
       medias estaduais e nacionais durante
       descobertade novos nichos de




                                                                                                15

beneficia da mesma forma a pequenos e grand
a seguranqaalimentar.
        Em dkcadas passadas, os programas
habitaqiio, hgua pothvel e eletricidade er
compensaqb por perdas. A terra destinada
qualidade, ou situada em heas marginais p
infra-estrutura, distribuida nas fkonteiras a
natural, destruindo a biodiversidade e o ambiente




        Em resposta a essa situaqiio,
agrossilvicultura e a agroecologia vem ap
como na abertura de novos espaqos de
tambkm cosstituem-se instrumentos
familiar e ecol6gica, contribuindo p
poucos, comepm a diversificar
agricultura familiar tem como produto maior oportuni
somente pela possibilidade de industrializaqb difu
infinidade de serviqos thicos, sociais e pessoais.
                                                           conta esta an4lise na sua
formulaqiio. A expans50 do para
demmdas ao SISNAMA: ins                                         o ambiptal rural,


aqbes a serem implementadas localmente.
        Alguns desafios podem ser identificados: a) a c   30 dos tCcnicop e familias
assentadaspara a gestgo ambiental, levando-se em cont
especificas para cada ecossiste
tempo para serem multiplic                                    ;b) a coabinaq5o de


                                                         mum aos assentados e a
manutenqiio das heas de preservaqb ambiental.
                                                         a promovidos pel0 INCRA,


breve espaqo de tempo




                                                                                  16

- .
 ./




       foi f m a d o um Termo de Compromisso e Ajust                 duta (TAC) entre MPF,
       MMA, MDA, INCFU e BAMA,visando asse                            imento s6cio-ambiental
       nos projetos de assentamento; b) implantou-se                   b o com o objetivo de
       acompanhar a implementaqfo do TAC; c) foi                        passivo ambiental da
       totalidade dos assentamentos j 6 existentes; d             dos nkleos especificos de
       gestb ambiental na sede do Incrae nas Sup                  ionais; e) foi preparado um
       novo Plan0 Nacional de Refonna A                           terios de sustqntabilidade
       apbiental; f) foi adotada umapolitica intens                    ca nos assentamentos
       e g) foi deikiido ummodelo para assentamentosflorest
               Os planos de curto e medio prazo ser5o fo                 seguintes aq6es ou
       atividades: a) simplificaqiio e padronizaqLo de             entos de licenciamento
       ambiental, tanto para assentamentos de ref0
       familiar; b) encaminhamentoparaare
       de assentamento; c) promoq?io de
       varitiveis ambientais; d) promoqb d
       assentados e e) realizaqb do geore
       BR-163.


               VII -Transversalidade  -
               Os 5.561 municipios brasileiros s b                   rmes desigualdades nos
       padrdes de qualidade de vida, inclusb social e ci
       regionais e as metr6poles concentraram as
       desenvolvimento humano. Enquanto isso,
       muitas vezes conviveram com um esvaziamento e
       alimentavam os fluxos migrat6rios para os centro
       81% dapopulaqb vive atualmente em cent
               htemamente, os grandes centros apresentam           contrastes: zodas centrais
       cosmopolitas e periferias abarrotadas de loteamentos             om baixag condiqdes
       de vida, sem acesso aos serviqos pfibli                            ente, a poluiqito e
       degradaqgo ambiental mais grave ocorre,                            bairros bnde vivem
       os mais pobres. Os movimentos de ju
       veemi3ncia. A divida social e ambiental
       como novos instrumentos de gestzo e manjos institucio
               Os Planos Diretores, quando e                                  os cqm a cidade
       formal. Dessa forma, nem sempre at
       problemas de controle de enchentes, poluiqb, d
       mananciais e ocupaqio das heas de risco precis
       objetivo, foi criado em 2003 o MinistCrio das
       politicas phblicas para esse espaqo territorial e essa PO
       primeira Confer&cia Nacional das Cidades e a primeir
       Ambiente, nas quais foram lanqadas
       centros urbanos.
               As sociedades modemas sii
       com aproduqgo e o consumo de be
       transportes e domicilios escap                               as, poluentes, e grandes
       volumes de residuos s6lidos, na

objetos descartados. Em 64% dos municipios brasile os, os residuos d i d o s slo
depositados em lixdes a c6u aberto. A degradaplo           I I lixo domestic0 permite a
proliferaqgo de moscas, ratos e outros vetores de doent is. Produz odores, contamina
solos e aqiiiferos, al6m de esgotar o oxigb.io de rios e la oas, matando peixes e algas e
tomando a hgua impr6pria para o consumo. As embal gens de plhstico e de metal
entopem esgotos e bueiros, causando enchentes. Cerca de 6 milhdes de pessoas nlo slo
atendidas pelos servipos domiciliares de coleta de lixo nas idades.
        Compostos orghicos, como os organoclorados, e inorghicos, como metais
pesados (chumbo, mercGo), chamados residuos t6xicos provocam doenpqs e nlo se
degradam na natureza. Os residuos produzidos por ha pitais e laboratbrim clinicos
constituemriscos pel0 seupotencial de transmissb de doe qas infecto-contagjosas.
        A reciolagem nHo 6 uma soluglo mhgica. Nb des :6i os residuos t6qcos e, para
reciclar o papal, vidro ou metal, gasta-se energia e Agu, Dessa forma, a rpaioria dos
materiais nb pode ser reciclqda etemamente sem perda d qualidade. Por issp, 6 melhor
reutilizl-los ou, melhor ainda, produzir o minim0 de re duos possiveis. A,revisgo de
hhbitos de consumo e, principalmente, de desperdicio , constitui-se em importante
medidade sustentabilidade ambiental.
        Cerca de 20% da populaplo brasileira 606 atend i a por abastecimento de hgua,
57% niio tem qeus esgotos ligados h rede phblica e 80% Go disp6e de nenhum tip0 de
tratamento de esgoto. As pessoas que n l o contam com e gotamento sanithio adequado
siio, em geral, aquelas que moram em habitap6es prech as, em favelas, ocupap6es de
terra, loteamento irregulares e bairros populares. N a onta da falta de hueamento
ambiental deve ser incluido o custo de despoluiplo dc rios e baias. Intuitivamente,
supbem-se que os gastos realizados em saneamento bhsi 3 slo em muito campensados
pela economia geradana $rea de Sa~de.
        A tendencia a impermeabilizar o solo com cimen         e asfalto e a diminui@o das
$reas destinadas apragas, parques, jardins e hortos florests s tsmtransformado as grandes
cidades em estufas. Albm disso, associada A ocupagao in evida das margens dos cursos
de hgua, contribui para as enchentes e os alagamentos, ;ada vez mais fieqiientes nas
cidades m6dias e grandes. Os deslizamentos de terra 2 erosdes siio os fenemems
relacionados a desastres naturais que tem causado o maic n h e r o de morte no Brasil.
                                                             *
Atingem com especial gravidade os moradores de favelas loteamentos irregu ares. 1
        0 Estatuto das Cidades, noplano legal, e acriagk do Ministkiodas Gidades, no
plano institucional, slo conquistas importantes que pe nitem o desenvolyimento de
abordagens sistemicaspara o desenvolvimento das cidade A necesshriareorikntaglo das
politicas e do desenvolvimento urbano depende da reestn uraqlo dos sistemdf; de gestao
municipais, metropolitanos, estaduais e federais. De: a forma, Serb
planejamento intersetorial e a implementa@o de progra las conjuntos de
territorial urbano, de habitaqlo, transportes, saneamento a ibiental e
e renda.
        Os desafios da $rea urbana sgo muitos e devem ier edentados emi associapiio
com os poderes locais. Umapolitica de residuos sblidos, c enfientamento das huestdes de
saneamento e o desenvolvimento de instrumentos de plan jamento urbano qu+incluam a
varilvel ambiental de modo a melhorar a qualidade de vid no ambiente urbanp slo agi5es
de granderetorno potencial.




                                                                                        18

         0 govemo brasileiro, em relaqlo As transversalid les do Meio Ambiente com o
setor urbano e das cidades, j i avangou consideravelme te neste govemo: a) estamos
dando continuidade ao Programa PRODES, de despoh $20 de Bacias Hidrogrificas,
vinculado a resultados; b) criamos um grupo tknico        1terministerial para estudar as
questees integradas do Saneamento Ambiental; c) inicia os a certificaqlo dos projetos
do PRODES; d) iniciamos o apoio A formataglo de P nos Integrados de Gestlo de
Residuos Sblidos; e) estamos promovendo projetos p )to de elaboraqgo, de Planos
Diretores de acordo com os novos ditames da Lei que i rtituiu o estatuto dps Cidades,
incluindo crit6rios de sustentabilidade ambiental; f) es mos dando conthuidade aos
programas de economia e us0 racional de hgua para aba: Timento urbano e:g) estamos
apoiando a capacitaqLo de cooperativas de catadoresde h
         D a nossa agenda futura, podemos citar: a) c       c continuidade ao PRODES
ampliandoas metas de 2003; b) estudar altemativas de s(
a certificaG8o dos projetos npr.escntad~v:d) elaborar estu
bacias metropolitanas; e) rlaborar proposta de desed
compartilhada e/ou associada dos recursos lu'dricos         n regi8es
regulamentar a PoliticaNacional de Rcsiduos S61idos: g)
a discussb da proposta da Politica Nacional de Sa
municipios na elnboraqJo dos sew Plonoj Iuteyrndos de
                                                                             r
seguir apoiando municipios na elpboraglo dos Seus Plar s Diretores de acotdo com os
ditames do estatuto das cidades; j) realizar estudos e 1 squisas para a co tmqlo de
programas integrados de saneamento ambiental e k)propc novo programade conomia e
us0 eficiente de hgua.


         VIII-Transversalidade   -Meio    Ambiente e Tur mo
         As dimensties continentais do Brasilabrangem de le regides equatoriais ao Norte
at6 Areas extratropicais ao Sul, diferenciadas climitica e :omorfologicamente, com u n a
extraordinhia diversidade ecol6gica e sbcio cultur          .. Em suma, com grandes
oportunidades para o desenvolvimento do turismo.
         N o context0 mundial, a indhstria do Turismo 6: l a atualidade, a atividade que
apresenta os mais elevados indices de crescimento econ6 tico. Movimenta cerca de US$
3,5 trilhties anualmente e, apenasnadtima dkcada, expan iuas suas atividades em 57%.
         Comparado a outros produtos de exportaqlo bras eiros, o crescimento da receita
gerada com o turismo C bastante relevante. Nos iiltimos nos, este aumento foi de 41%,
28 pontos percentuais acima do crescimento da receita d minkrio de ferro exportado no
mesmo periodo, e 30 pontos percentuais acima do         VE  )r gerado pela exportaqgo do
agccar. Emvolume de divisas, perdesomentepara a soja.
         No Brasil, o Ministkrio do Turismo detkm a res insabilidade pela execuqlo da
Politica Nacional de Twismo, que atua em conjunto :om o Instituto Brasileiro de
Turismo (EMBRATUR). A Politica Nacional de T rismo tem por fmalidade o
desenvolvimento do turismo e seu equacionamento cc io fonte de renda nacional e
observa as seguintes diretrizes bkicas: a prtitica do turir io como forma de promover a
valorizaglo e a preservaqIo do patrim8nio natural e cul ral do pais e a valorizaqlo do
homem como destinattuio final do desenvolvimento M s l :0.




                                                                                       19

        A EMBRATUR tem como competbncias,
Federal normas e medidas necesshias para a exec
b) executar as decisaes que, para este fm, Ihet
hierarquizar e ordenar o us0 e a ocupaqBo d
estimular o aproveitamento dos recursos n
turistico, com vistas A sua preservaqlo e e)
o ambiente natural e a fisionomia social e
afetadaspel0 seu desenvolvimento.
        No Brasil, a populaqb e os visitantes cos       ozar dos seus momentos de
lazer em praias, junto a lagos ou                       rais. As regides com tais

                                                         das populapjes urbanas. Os
                                                         rqando a necessidade de se
estabelecerem politicas locais para a
caracteristicas do local.
        Os danos ambientais provoc
turismo significam poluipZo, degrada
entre outros. A poluiqb, que resulta na diminuiqlo               lidade dos recursos




        0 planejamento das ativi
suporte do ambiente e a valo
fundamental paraprevenir e
        Nos ~ltimosquatro
em apoio ao turismo.
construidos, 22 mil metros quadrados de patrimhi0              foram restaurados, 17
projetos de saneamento biisico foram executados e 28          tros de estradas foram
construidos. A partir dos investimentos piiblicos, mai         bilh6es foram e sergo
investidospela iniciativa
        0 ecoturismo, na
maior crescimento, resul
destinos turisticos. No B
eshulos de ordem me
econbmicos e ambientai                                       tas vezes compromete-se
o conceit0 e a imagem                                         e extemo. 0 ecoturismo
deve ser entendido como ULU segment0 da atividade
sustentivel, o patrimhi0 natural e cultural, incentiva
de uma consciencia ambientalista por meio da interp
ambiente, promovendo
tais objetivos, 6 necessfia a conjugaqlo de esforqos do    0, como agente indutor, da
iniciativa privada e das populaqaes envolvidas,             agates promotores na
implementaqlo de medidas criativas e priiticas que v       m o patrimbnio natural e
cultural locais.




                                                                                  20

                                                         i
Ecoturismo; d) reestruturaqb do PRODETUR para o fo o do novo Plano Nacional de
Turismo; e) Regionalizaqb do Planejamento e aGestZiod Turismo-ProgramaRoteiros
do Brasil;  f, criaqlo de um GT para Certificaqlo de Tur smo Sustentkvel; g) assinatura
de um Termo de CooperaqBo entre o Ministkrio d               Turismo e o MMA e h)
desenvolvimentodo Plano de Desenvolvimento Turistico o Baixo SZo Francisco.
        A agenda futura 6 ambiciosa. Entre tantas aqdes     atividades planejadas para os
periodos fituros, hi que se citar algumas: a) a elaboraq o e implementaqtio da agenda
ambiental conjunta eplan0 de aqto parameio ambiente e        'smo; b) apreparaqlo do ante
projeto de L e i Geral do Turismo, incorporando crithios e sustentabilidade e envio ao
Congress0 Nacional; c) a definigb de mecanismos de apoio A certifica@io           de turismo
sustenthvel; d) o estabelecimento de indicadores e implem taqBo do monitorqentopara
                                                         1
avaliaqgo do Plano Nacional de Turismo; e) a m ntagem de estu+s
                                                         &"                          para o

visitaqlo Mstica; 0 a montagem dos estudos para o esri~bclscunc~ito pqhetros de
estabelecimento de parhetros de avaliaqio da capacidpde de suporte dos locais de
                                                                          de
avalia@o dos niveis de risco de meios fisicos para a prhic'a turistica; g) a iiny,lemrtnral;9~i
da agenda ambiental para meio ambiente e turismo; h) o monitoramento e ;~\ali;h;iio do
Plano Nacioeal do Turismo e i)    a implementaqgo do Plan de Desenvolvimento Turistico
do Baixo Sgo Francisco.
        Ainda que dificil de se estabeleceremprazos para      a agenda desta amplitude, a
prbpria importhcia do tema aponta para os esforqos de priorizaq8o a sere9 mantidos
pel0 govern0 nesta Area.


        M-Transversalidade -MeioAmbiente eIntegr $50Nacional
        N o Brasil, houve um forte processo de pol 'zaqgo do desenvolvimento
econ6mico nos estados do Rio de Janeiro e S b Paulo      40   Iongo dos filtimos duzentos
anos. Por volta de 1970, os dois estados, com apenas 3.5% da Area fisica do pais,
participavam com 55% do PIB e com 30% de sua p                   istribuindo desigualmente
riquezas e degradaqto dentro da Federaqiio e dentro
        No entanto, vem-se observando nos filt
processo de concentraqgo geogrhfica na
quais: a) a formaqlo de deseconomias de a
movimento de expansto da fionteira agricola
localizagLo de indfistrias e serviqos; c)
as regides Norte, Nordeste e Centro Oeste e
investimentos em outras Areas.
        A desconcentraqlo das regides metrop
lado, estado associada a uma tendencia
interior de S8o Paulo, sul do Rio de Janeiro,
Catarina e Rio Grande do Sul, mais d
tradicionalmente menos desenvolvidas, como o Nordeste.
        0 nivel das desigualdades regionais
necessitaaqdes a virios niveis comvistas ao
        0 Plano da Amaz6nia Sustenthvel (
para se dar consistgncia A vis50 de des


                                                           I                                21

    ,       .


transversalidade da IntegragIo Regional e do Meio Amk ate, este tem sido objeto de
intensa articulagBo entre os dois MinistCrios.
        Os desafiosnessa heaque tamfocado a atenggo dc govemo s b : a) o zoneamento
ecol6gico-econBmico e o ordenamento territorial, emregie s prioritfias, emparticular na
regigo da BR-163 e no arc0 do desflorestamento; b) a implementagiio do Programa
AmazBnia SustentBvel e o enfrentamento do desmal mento na Amaz8nia; c) a
revitalizaggo da Baciado Rio SZio Francisco e d) a Bguapa o semi-hido.
                                                            L

        0 govemo vem avanqando rapidamente para a implementaggo desta agenda
transversal e, nos Gltimos meses, tomamos as seguintes irovid&ncias: a) consolidamos
u n a metodologia para a elaboraqgo do Zoneamento ecol Igico-econbmico reeditando o
"Diretrizes Metodol6gicasparao ZEE no Territ6rio Nacio al" emconsensocom diversos
agentes executores; b) criamos um Cons6rcio ZEE B r a d 3rd uircgra@o de ibformagties
existentes e criamos um grupo de trabalho Inter-Minisi rial para o Deseqvolvimento
Sustenthvel da regiZio de influihciada BR-163,
        Como agenda para fituras agees, pretendemos: I) executar o ZEE na escala
1:1.000.000 para todo o pais; b) apoiar a execu@io   do ZE Z nos estados e mupicipios; c)
executar o ZEE emprojetos priorithios, como a Bacia do i o Pamaha e a      RIPE(Regigo
Integrada do DF e entomo); d) promover plan0 de            nplementagiio no     ativa dos
desdobramentos do ZEE enquanto ferramenta de ordena: iento territorial ;Timplantar
opera950 conjunta entre MMA e MinistCrios da Defe! L,Justiga e Trab
combate ao desmatamento; f) definir e implaptar a regula [zaggo da
na regiio; g) criar hreas priorithias na regiiio e h) lanqa o Plano de Aq5o p@a a regiiio
da BR-163 derivada do ZEE.
        No cas0 da Revitalizaqzo da Bacia do S5o Franc sco: a) criamos UTgrupo de
trabalho para estudar o problema; b) constituimos o Corm 6 da Bacia do SZo Prancisco e
enviamos ao Congress0 emenda constitucional que pr p8e a criagiio dol Fundo de
Revitalizagb da Bacia HidrogrAfica do SLo Francis 1. Portm, ainda             bB   que se
providenciar: a) a elaboraglo e implementagb de sistem s de planejamento;estrattgico
integrado para a bacia do rio S I 0 Francisco, como o Plan de RevitalizaqBo 6a Bacia do
Silo Francisco, entre outros; b) a elaboraggo do Plano di Bacia do Siio Fraqcisco; c) o
desenvolvimento do ZEE da Bacia e d) a ampliaqiio das heaq protegidas da Bacia por
meio da criaggo de UCs.
        N o que diz respeito B Amazbnia, foi implanta o o Programa Pil;oto para a
Proteqiio das Florestas Tropicais Brasileiras, tambCm cc hecido como PPq7, e muito
recentemente o govern0 j B proporcionou os seguintes a\ q o s : a) prepara@p do Plano
Amazbnia Sustenthvel (PAS); b) assinatura de Termos de Cooperagb entre q Presidente
da Repfiblica e os Govemadores do Nortepara elaboraqiio io Plano e c) criag% do Grupo
Permanente de Trabalho Interministerialpara a redugiio d s hdices de Desm$amento da
Amazbnia Legal.
        N a agenda fitura para a Amazbnia, pretende-5         ainda: a) realizar consultas
                                                            ~
pfiblicas sobre as propostas ttcnicas do PAS; b) def Lir as ag8es priorithias para
implementaqZo do Programa, inclusive incluindo-as na I`oposta de revisgo do PPA, c)
iniciar a implementagb das agBes priorithias; c) e: :cutar agties de ffscalizaglo,
monitoramento e fomento previstas no Plano Operativo e Combate ao Desmatamento;
d) rearticular o PPG-7 de acordo com as direhes do P S; e) executar o donjunto de



                                                                                       22

                                                         i
projetos; f) reduzir as taxas brutas de desmatamento e g) diversificar e verticalizar a
produggo emreservas extrativistas.
       Finalmente, no que diz respeito ti hgua para o se '-kid0 e as obras hidricas: a)
estamos executando programas sustenthveis de atendimen o ti demanda de hgua do semi-
iuido; b) estamos desenhando programas que p e r "      at nder as populaqbes difusas do
meio rural do semi-irido; c>elaboramosumconjunto de r gas, transformado em Portaria
do MI, que tecnifca e moraliza a concesslo de apoio financeiro da Unilo a obras
hidricas.  Precisamos, para o futuro: a) garantir novos programas de atendimento tis
demandas de hgua do semi-hido; b) montar umbanco de dados de Projetos Hidricos no
MI e c) eshturar as equipes de fiscalizaglo e monito               das obras hidricas na
Secretaria de Ma-estrutura Hidricado MI.


       X -Transversalidade-MeioAmbienteeEnergia
       Cerca de 30 milh6es de brasileiros vivem sem o ni$el de energia necessihio a uma
razokvel qualidade de vida. Dependem de fontes                      caras, sujas e pouco
confihveis, como lampides a querosene, velas e lenha.                     negativas para a



vezes paraperpetuar a falta de


       0 Programa Luz
(Decreto no4873 de
agentes do setor,
                                                         1
familias beneficiadas.

       Duranteeste periodo, enquanto se negociavam os contratos de atendimento para
2004 e 2005, foram contratados dezenas de projetos ioneiros em vArios Estados,
destacando-se a realizagb do atendimento no Estado do P'aui da Comunidade de Nazar6
nomunicipio de Novo SantoAntbnio, que possui o menor hdice de atendimento do pais,
a eletrificagIo da comunidade Kalunga no municipio e Cavalcante em Goihs e da
comunidade indigena dos Guat6s na ilha Insua, municipi de Corumba no Mato Gross0
do SUI, al6m de ag6esMS comunidades agroflorestais do cre.

       Foram realizadas tambh intensas discussdes c m os agentes executores do
programa e com os Estadosbuscando identificar tecnologi s de atendimento adaptadas tis
realidades locais e de baixo custo que pudessem ser ut izadas na implementaqlo do
programa em cada localidade, Como resultado, tem-se a a sinatura, emjunho de 2004, de
quase40 contratos de execuelo das obras do Luz ParaTodps emtodos os Estadosdo pais
que, att o halde 2005, beneficiarlo cercade 3 milh6es de brasileiros.

        0 desenvolvimento da infra-estrutura energ6ticd no pais tem historicamente
pautado-se por crittkios t6cnicos inerentes ao prcjprio setor e pelas pressdes da demanda
                                                           I

                                                                                       23

de energia, algumas vezes em detriment0 de um                     ado e sistemico do
tenitbrio. As usinas hidrelCtricas, que foram a ch                 o pais nos dltimos
50 anos, ocuparam uma &ea significativa de terras,      parte cultivaivel, e atingiram
diretamente muitas familias,      retirando-as de sua
faltou o cuidado adequado, houve problemas
inundadas e comprometimento                              reservatbrios. Um exemplo
cClebre do period0 militar foi o                        c m i , devido a nb retirada
prdvia da vegetaqb da &ea de                                        progressivaente
solucionado, devido h renovaqiio permanente                         mostrando-se em
alguns aspectos menos grave do que inicialmenteim
        N o h b i t o das politicas de aproveitamento   ico, os projetos deveam ser
elaborados no context0 de cada bioma, levando-          conta as potencialidades e
fiaddades do tenitbrio, de forma a evitar                  actos sbcio ambientais e
garantira sustentabilidade.
        0 Brasil deve continuar baseando su                        elCtrica em bases
renovhveis atraves das psinas hidrel6tricas
participaqgo de outras fontes renovhveis em sua m
hlcool de origem vegetal tem participaqzo
constituindo-se em experiencia 6nica no
derivados de petrbleo, bem antes                          e.Quioto. 0 biodiesel e as
nristuras de coxnbustiveis que us
podem disersificnr e tqrnar ainda mais renovhvel a
de cana, os rcjeitos de serrarias e a lenha, em c         direta ou em gaseificaq20,
constituem-se outras fontes renovhveis c
tambCm que hh regibes do pais que apresentam
energia eblica. Apesar de seus altos custos, a          o da energia solar esth se
expandindo, srejaparaa geraqgo de calor, s
        Projetos descentralizados de e
pequenas hidreldtricas - podem levar
acesso a este bem, apesar do alto cus
representa, em algumas regiaes                                  a, a h i c a altemativa
tdcnica vihvel de proporciopar o ace
cidadzos brasileiros, sem grandes impa
        A legislaqb brasileira sobre
Contudo, o sistema C constituido basic
Minas e Energia, Conselho Nacional
do Petrbleo (ANP) e Agencia N
operadoras pdblicas e privadas dos sistemas de produqb          ss50 e distribuipb. 0
sistema tem interfaces com a &ea de meio ambiente na
SISNAMA s b responshveis pel0
energdticas. Por isto, o MMA e o MMEassinaram re                  ermo de cooperaqlo
estabelecendo agenda conjunta de trabalho, em                     eridas as questijes
ambientaisnoplanejamento do setor.
        Estaagendaconjunta tem se
de prioridades dentro do conjunto d
b) o planejamento integrado inch
eficiencia e racionalizaqb dos us0


                                                                                    24

         Dado o papel fundamental da geraqlo de energia klttrica para o bem estar social
da populaglo brasileira, e o sucesso do B r a d em produzir energia com baixo valor
liquid0 de emisslio de carbono, salvo pela queim
inclusive no que tange        presteza e rigor nos lic
energ&icos,   reveste-se de carhter estratbgicopara o
pel0 Presidente da Repfiblica.
         0 Govern0 Federal realizou progressos
transversalidade entre Energia e Meio Ambiente, pois:                lvida rpetodologia
para aplicaqb da AAE em bacia hidrogrhfica, te
hidriulica; b) foram fqitos estudospilotopara a aplic
e g b ; c) foi aprovado, pel0 Congress0 Nacional, o
cria as condiqbes para a exigdncia de licenciamen
concess6es; d) foi criada a Empresa de                      Energ6tico (EPE), que se
responsabilizari pelo planejamento                            e) foi langadq o modelo
institucional do setor elktrico, que pr
concess6es; f) foi assinado acordo de cooperaq                       e o M$fE para a
implantaqiio de uma agenda ambiental conjunta e g) foi           o Programa:deApoio a
Fontes Renovhveis de EnergiaEl6trica (PROINFA), que             importantet.liansferdncia
de renda paraesse setor.
         Iacluem-se nos planos de govemo a1                          vidades de cunho
institucional, tais como: a) a aplicaqgo dos
ambiental do conjunto de empreendimentos
procedimentos diferenciados para o
renovhveis de energia; c) a implantaqlo da EPE e es
a participaqlo do MMA; d) a implementag
racional de energia; e) a atuaqiio do gov
empreendimentos do setor el6trico s
ambientais prbvias; (f) o aperfeigoam
a inclusb da repotenciaqgono plan0


         ConsideraqBesFinais
         Finalmate, gostdamos de b e dar cidncia que es     sendo preparada uma Carta
Consulta para a COFIEX (ComissZio de Financiament            Extemos) referente a um
programa de assistdncia tbcnica (Technical Assistai           Loan    -  TAL,) para a
sustentabilidade ambiental, em apoio ao Programa de Refi na Programhtica, alcanqando
valor estimado entre US$ 8.000.000,00 e US$ 1O.OOC         00,OO. A expectativa 6 de
liberaqlo desses recursos em carhter adicional aos limites -qamentAriose fmanceiros a
partir da Lei Orqamenthia Anual (LOA) 2005, de fon L a garantir que os estudos
previstos efetivamente ap6iem os resultados esperados pe MMA e demais minist6rios
participantes no cumprimentodos compromissos fumados       :ssareforma.
         Considerando que s b estas, Senhor Wolfensohn is informagces que cabe ao
govemo brasileiro Lhe passar a respeito do programa de g Iemo para a sustentabilidade
ambiental, reafirmamos a expectativa da concessZo de cr6$ :os no valor total de at6 US$
1,2 bilhb, dos quais US$ 500 milh6es a serem cons .erados dentro do envelope
determinado pel0 programa de apoio "Country Assistance trategy" (CAS) do atlo fiscal
de 200312004.


                                                                                      25

                                                              `I-
       Certos da atenqIo quanto ao pleito do govern0 bI sileiro, aguardamos as demais
provid&xiasadministrativasporparte do BancoMundial.


       Atenciosamente,
        u!Y.&aJ J&m                                     ?d
         MARINA SILVA                                   PAL0 CIFILHO
Ministra de Estado do MeioAmbiente                      :EstadodaFazenda




       D e acordo:                            /




       Miniitra de Estado das Min&ia




                                                        J




                                                                                  26

                TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                     (NOT OFFICIAL)




                                                                              July 7,2004.


Mr.
James D.Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC - USA




        Dear Sir,


        The purpose of the present letter i s to describe our proposal for a Programmatic
Reform Loan in order to receive support from the World Bank for the updating and
expansion of government policies in the Environmental Sustainability issue in Brazil.
Initially,  it presents  the Brazilian government's        agenda for institutional and
microeconomic reforms aimed at promoting development on a sustainable basis, b y
protecting natural resources and improving environmental quality indicators. Also, to be
highlighted are the measures focused on environmental sustainability that already have
and are being undertaken and implemented by the government.


        Brazil Macroeconomic Scenario
                -
        The Brazilian government i s strongly committed to promoting sustainable growth
with social inclusion. We are buildinga new growth agenda, focused on the reduction of
social inequalities and on the balanced use of natural resources, thus strengthening the
consistence of our economic policies.
        Today the Country i s clearly advancing towards the consolidation of economic
stability, through the adoption and maintenance o f a responsible economic policy, which
includes, at the macroeconomic level, the effective fight against inflation and its perverse
effects on the income of the poor population. Fiscal discipline has allowed for a drop in
real medium-term interest rates, while the fluctuating exchange rate continues to provide
support to the successful external adjustment achieved during the last two years.
Additionally, both the profile and the composition o f the public debt have improved in
several aspects, reducing the country's vulnerability to external chocks.
        Looking ahead, the definition of public policies for a sustainable Brazil depends
on changes in the actions of the governmental spheres, the productive sector and of civil


                                           89

                 TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                        (NOT OFFICIAL)

society organizations, so as to reach the everyday lives of all citizens. Therefore, it i s
necessary to expand the sustainable development concept, in order to understand it as a
collective construction capable of generating life quality in the environmental, economic
and social levels. The success of such a construction depends on the clear definition of
priorities, projects and structural reforms.


        Recent macroeconomic progress
        In 2003, the Brazilian economy faced several challenges. The unfavorable
scenario in 2002 -- when the Brazilian country risk indicator went beyond 2000 base
points, the inflation rates in the last quarter reached over 30% p.a. and the exchange rate
reached almost R$ 4,OO per dollar -- called for a huge effort in recovering the country's
economic policy credibility and assuring stability, thus creating the conditions required
for President Lula to fulfill two of his most important commitments: the sustainable drop
in interest rates and the return of economic growth. After almost a year and a half, the
exchange rate stabilized at around R$ 3,OO per dollar, inflation dropped from almost 20%
pea.to less then 5.5% p.a., and the economy i s recovering, with a GDP growth rate of 6%
p.a. inthe last two quarters.
        Since before taking office, in January 2003, this administration defined the major
lines of its macroeconomic policy, based on fiscal responsibility, aiming at economic
stability. In addition to this essential commitment, the objective i s to also promote
structural changes with the intention of consolidating the confidence, the transparency
and the good management practices of public banks and development agencies.
        A strong fiscal policy is being implemented by the government, representing a
new stage of fiscal adjustment in Brazil. While in the 1980s the solution for the
government's fiscal imbalances was mainly based on inflationary accommodation, as of
1995 the control of inflation has been followed by an increase in the tax burden -- which
was raised from 28% to 36% of the GDP during the period -- while the net public sector
debt climbed from 30% to 57% of the GDP. Considering the serious situation faced by
public debt, the new government committed itself to a primary surplus target of 4.25% o f
the GDP, effective in 2003, 2004 and -- as indicated b y the Budgetary Guidelines Act
sent inApril 2004 -- also for 2005-2007.
        Additionally, in 2003 the government decided to break with the model in force,
opting for a fiscal adjustment based on expenditure cuts, since it considered that an
increase in the tax burden penalized productive activities and hampered the resuming of
the economic activity. The 2003 results are an evidence that the government has
superseded the established primary surplus target by generating a primary surplus o f
4.37% of the GDP, without causing an increase in revenues. Federal revenues as a
percentage of the GDP droppedin 2003.
        It i s important to highlight that the fiscal policy is consistent with the objective of
promoting a structural adjustment of public accounts, assuring its inter-temporal
solvency, Within this context, the importance of the Social Security Reform -- proposed
by the administration in 2003 and approved by Congress on the same year -- must be
highlighted. The reform was essential for achieving the long term balance o f public



                                             90

                TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

accounts and for assuring the right of each citizen to retirement, which was being
jeopardized by the previous unbalanced system.
        For the year 2004, there i s an expectation for an economic growth of 3.5% and for
an inflation rate within the interval established by the Brazilian Monetary Council. It
should be emphasized that the monetary policy conducted by the Central Bank, parallel to
the fiscal policy, has been decisive inthe fight against inflation. This policy's success can
be assessed by the basic interest rate, which has initiated a descendant course, dropping
from 26.5% p.a., inMay 2003, to 16.5% p.a. inDecember 2003 and 16.0% inApril 2004,
thus confirming a course towards progressive reduction. As a result, real interest rates
presently experience their lowest level for several years, thus benefiting the resuming of
growth on a sustainable basis. For the coming months, due to the alignment of the market
inflationary expectations to the Central Bank's inflation target, expectations are that the
basic interest rate will continue its declining course. This course, associated to the
positive effects of fiscal balance, favors the return of private investments and of
economic growth.
        External adjustment had its effect in 2003, when the GDP was contracted by
0.2%. This cost was relatively low if compared to other countries, especially inAsia and
Latin America, which have faced GDP reductions between 5% and 10% in the aftermath
o f external adjustments of the same magnitude as the one completedby Brazil in 2002-3.
        In2004, the Brazilian economy is expected to grow 3.5%, pulled by the recovery
of the domestic level of absorption and also by exportations, which are expected to keep a
positive performance.
        The positive performance of the Country's external accounts in 2003 deserves to
be highlighted. During2002, net international reserves, as per the adjusted criterion, were
reduced by US$ 11.5 billion. Foreign direct investment dropped 45% during the second
semester 2002, incomparison to the same period in2001. The private sector debt rollover
rate dropped from 123% at the end of 2001 to 24% in December 2002. Policies enforced
during the last year and a half have managed to reverse this picture. In 2003 the
commercial surplus reached US$ 24.8 billion. Medium and long term external funding
has recovered and international reserves keep growing.
        The important reduction inthe country's vulnerability must be highlighted as well:
after ten years of negative results, in 2003 the balance of payments' current account has
accumulated a US$4.1 billion surplus, equaling 0.8% of the GDP. The true dimension of
the external adjustment carried out by the Brazilian government can be measured b y
noting that in 2001 the current account deficit reached US$ 23.2 billion, or 4.6% o f the
GDP. The external sector outcomes during the first five months in 2004 confirm a
persistent excellent performance of exports, which will guarantee a commercial surplus
even higher than the one achieved in 2003.
        Inparallel, the government has been puttingits best efforts into the performance
of structural reforms, capable of favoring even more the resuming of sustainable
economic growth. Inaddition to the Social Security Reform -- which was essential due to
the positive effects it will provide in fiscal terms -- equally noteworthy i s the Tax
Reform, with the objective o f rationalizing the Brazilian tax system, without raising the
tax burden.


                                           91

               TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

         Inaddition to its macroeconomic policy, the government has also been advancing
with an important microeconomic agenda aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economy, assuring a greater access of the population to both opportunities and
predictability ineconomic processes. This policy i s based upon a much broader objective
of assuring the sustainability of economic growth. Such sustainability requires several
elements, from guaranteeing an improved income distribution so as to expand the basis
for the accumulation of human capital to the conservation of the environment, so that
future generations may not be unduly burdened by its degradation. Therefore, for the last
year and a half, the government has been developing a series of actions, having already
achieved important results and having designed a plan for the coming years, which
includes the strengthening of the Ministry of Environment.


         Brazilian Environmental Sustainability
         Inaddition to acomplex and advanced legal framework, Brazil counts with one of
the most modern environmental management systems worldwide. The country has been
experiencing a meaningful and continuous progress in this agenda. The contrast vis-&-vis
some years ago i s impressive. For many decades, lose-end policies have been
implemented -- causing losses even to the environment. Many of these policies included
subsidies.
         On the other hand, we should highlight the approval of the Atlantic Rainforest and
the Biosafety Bills by the House of Representatives, already under the present
administration and after an ample mobilization and discussion by society. These bills are
presently being discussed by the Federal Senate. Additionally, the Plan for the Prevention
and Control of Deforestation (PPCD) for the Amazon region has begun to be
implemented. It was prepared b y fourteen ministries by means of a broad transversality
(mainstreaming), in addition to the participation of eight State governors and civil society
institutions. The objective of the present program i s to slow down the pace -- within a
quite short period of time -- of the deforestation of that important biome.
         As noted above, the regulatory and institutional framework is quite advanced, as a
consequence of a continuous evolution, which took place during the last 10 to 15 years,
after the country's return to democracy, with a reasonable degree of decentralization and
public participation. Nevertheless, additional progress i s necessary, including the
adaptation and effectiveness of the existing tools and the prioritization of changes within
sectors whose policies can cause a negative impact upon the environment (sectoral
mainstreaming). There i s also room for improvement and expansion for a planning
consistent with the Brazilian Environmental Legislation, at all levels of government.
         An important aspect of the changes taking place in the environmental field is the
participation and the social control over the process of definition o f guidelines and
priorities for environmental policies. In Brazil, non-governmental organizations and
social movements have been able to find a free room for their actions, with strong
institutional support from the government, including the transfer o f significant budgetary
resources. Such organizations have often been fulfilling a very important role,
contributing to the raising of problems and the identification of solutions for Brazil's
environmental issues. At the end of last year, the realization of the 1st National


                                           92

                TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

Conference on the Environment has allowed for the inclusion of several segments of
society in this discussion, which have incorporated the environmental variable into their
practices and priorities (mainstreaming).        They include traditional communities,
indigenous people, cooperatives, service clubs and employers.           These groups have
deserved, with a varying intensity, financial support from the Brazilian government, and
have guided the implementation of public policies.
         Given the complexity and over-arching dimension of environmental issues, the
government has been giving growing emphasis to the implementation of transversality
(mainstreaming) with other sectors and to the decentralization o f the Brazilian
Environmental Management System (SISNAMA). So far, the latter has only been able to
establish municipal level environment instances in about 10% of all Brazilian
municipalities and, therefore, would benefit from institutional strengthening.
        Throughout the world -- and it would not be different in Brazil -- major
challenges remain in the reversal of the course of non-sustainable use o f natural
resources, as well as in the consolidation of a more consistent, concerted and effective
management system. In the first case, to be highlighted are the efforts carried out in
Brazil in the fight against deforestation in the Amazon and in the Atlantic Rainforest,
water pollution in several critical basins in the South and Southeast of the country and air
pollution in metropolitan areas, in addition to addressing localized problems of intense
pollution in critical regions. As to the management system, there i s a need for improved
institutional capacity, coordination of sector policies and for the introduction of effective
instruments of encouragement.
         It is also necessary to address some essential topics regarding the following
issues: energy production to enable the country's growth, the growing demand for timber
products and the need to improve water and sanitation supply services. In order to face
such challenges without meaningful aggression to the environment, coordinated and
balanced efforts are required, which should also include an improved qualification o f the
environmental management system.
        As will be shown below, much has already been achieved in the environmental
field, but a lot remains to be done as well. More important than a roll of achievements,
though, special emphasis must be given to the government's commitment to pursue an
integrated, strong and ambitious program that may allow us to move towards
environmental sustainability, which i s an integral part to this administration's program.


         Proposal for a Programmatic ReformLoan
         The Brazilian government presents a proposal to the World Bank for support to
our policies in the environmental sector b y means of a programmatic reform loan
operation. All present conditions of the Brazilian environmental sector enable the present
operation to be a very timely one for the country. The support of the World Bank i s a
relevant catalyst, furthermore due to its technical assistance features in some key areas.
        A successful program in this sector should hold a sequence of distinct operations
of quick disbursement and selectivity, supported by an already existent governmental
program. Additionally, it should promote and facilitate the design and implementation of


                                            93

               TRANSLATION OF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                     (NOT OFFICIAL)

policies, programs and instruments in key economic sectors and in the environmental
system itself; monitor its impacts and results and be flexible so as to incorporate the
experience obtained after evaluating the results achieved by previous stages and eventual
problems arising duringthe course of its execution.
        For its implementation, the intention i s to incorporate not only the existing and
required reforms, but also the main transversalities (mainstreaming) with other sectors of
the economy. Nevertheless, it would not be reasonable to include the whole universe of
environmental mainstreaming, as that would involve a program too broad and difficult to
implement. Thus, the Ministry of Environment has selected the sectors in which
conversations are most advanced in the present, allowing for a meaningful evolution
within the scope of such a program. Hence, we have organized the Program around 10
topics, listed below:
        I-InstitutionalandManagementCapacity;
        I1- Biodiversity, Protected Areas andForest Resources;
        I11- Water Resources andFightagainst Desertification;
        IV - Economic Instruments;
        V - Licensing, Environmental Quality and Environmental Emergencies;
        VI- Mainstreaming - Environment andAgrarian Development;
        VI1- Mainstreaming- Environment and Cities;
        VI11- Mainstreaming- Environment andTourism;
        IX - Mainstreaming- Environment andNational Integration; and
        X - Mainstreaming- Environment andEnergy.


        Each one o f the theme areas i s presented, highlighting: a) general elements that
may contribute to the definition of the topic; b) a brief diagnosis o f the field; c) the
identification of the main strengths and weaknesses; d) a simplified description of the
main actions already undertaken by our administration and e) a description of the future
agenda the government will try to carry out for the corresponding topic.
        Itmustbe highlighted that the mainstreaming at the core of the proposedProgram
implies in the participation of several organizations in addition to the Ministry of
Environment and its associated entities, namely, the National Water Agency (ANA), the
Brazilian Institute for Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA) and the
Rio de Janeiro Botanical Garden Research Institute (JBRJ). The Program i s also
integrated by the Ministries of Mines and Energy (MME), National Integration (MI),
Agrarian Development (MDA), Cities (MCID), Tourism (MTUR) and Finance (MF).


        I InstitutionalandManagementCapacity
          -
        Environmental Management i s structured around the Environmental Management
System (SISNAMA). The System was conceived by Law no. 6938 o f August 31St1981,



                                          94

                TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                       (NOT OFFICIAL)

which provides for the National Environmental Policy. The Law establishes concepts,
principles, objectives, application and formulation mechanisms, instruments and
penalties. It also establishes the National Environmental Council (CONAMA).
         Within this context, CONAMA i s created with the intention of setting up an
articulated set o f government bodies, entities, rules and practices responsible for the
protection and improvement of environmental quality, structured by means of the
following political-administrative levels: a) superior government bodies, made up by the
Government Council, the members of which are the President's Office (Casu Civil) and
all the ministers, with the function of advising the President in the design of the National
Policy and of national guidelines for the environment and natural resources; b) an
advisory and deliberative body, CONAMA, with representatives from several sectors of
society, a normalizing agent of environmental policy instruments; c) the central body, the
MMA; d) the executing body, IBAMA; e) sectoral bodies, which correspond to state
level environment bodies and f) local bodies, which correspond to the municipal or local
bodies.
         The 1988 Constitution has instituted the principle that the State's capacity to act in
the environmental area i s based upon the concept of shared responsibility between the
Union, the states, the Federal District and the municipalities, and between these and
different sectors of society.
         Several instruments have been established based on such principle. At the
governmental level, many instruments are essentially focused on actions of command and
control. Others, more modern ones, foresee the prevention and ex-ante evaluation of
environmental impacts. One example i s environmental licensing, which foresees the
mandatory realization of studies and reports for works that are potentially harmfulto the
environment or the institution of the federal technical registry o f impact generating
activities. The certifications and the territorial ecological-economic zoning were created
and their implementation i s being initiated.
         Nevertheless, the instruments inforce lack strengthening. In several cases, there i s
need for reinforcement or modification in their legal basis, in order to increase their level
of social control.
         For the strengthening of the system and, as a consequence, of environmental
management, at least the following aspects deserve to be discussed in greater detail: a)
increase in the social support basis of environmental policies; b) decentralization of
environmental management; c) availability of objective and systemic information and d)
i t s mainstreaming within the several areas of economic activity.
         Furthermore, the bodies that make up the system, especially at the federal level,
require a physical structure and human resources that match the objectives for improved
efficiency and efficacy intheir action.
         During the last 18 months, the government, on its turn, has already made
meaningful efforts in this direction, as follows: a) we have created environment specialist
careers and promoted public competitions (concursos pdblicos), since the MMA
presently does not have staff available for filling these positions; b) we have designed a
new Human Resources Policy for the MMA and its associated entities; c) we are



                                            95

               TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                     (NOT OFFICIAL)

restructuring the MMA; d) we have instituted the IBAMA Management Council; e) we
have created the Tripartite Commissions; f) the first National Conference on the
Environment has been held; g) a Transparency Act for environmental information was
approved and h)a working group for studying environmental indicators and statistics was
established, among many other actions and initiatives.
        We will continue the actions for the strengthening of MMA by means o f a new
administrative structure and the promotion of additional public competitions for IBAMA
and the MMA, the ongoing capacity building of the system's servants, the establishment
of modern and effective environmental management systems and instruments, the
continuity o f decentralization by means of the capacity buildingof municipalities and the
definition o f legal instances and competences of the system's various intervening
elements, among other actions.


        I1 Biodiversity,ProtectedAreas andForestResources
           -
        Brazil holds between 15 percent and 20 percent of the worlds biodiversity and the
largest number of endemic species in the world. A major part of such biological wealth
remains either unknown or very little used. The country also features a social diversity
made up by indigenous people, quilombolas (communities of slave descendants), rubber-
tappers, ribeirinhos (river-side populations), babap coconut laborers and other
traditional communities, the holders o f knowledge associated to the use o f biodiversity,
as defined under the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). The conservation of
such an asset calls for the adoption of protection practices, but also for the sustainable use
o f such natural and cultural resources. Therefore, traditional communities must benefit --
in a fair and equitable manner -- from the resources deriving from the access to such
knowledge, as foreseen under the CBD, which was ratified by our National Congress.
        InBrazil's economic history, the production of wealth has always been associated
to the extensive use of natural resources, in an ecologically and economically
unsustainable situation. The expansion of the agricultural frontier has, in some cases,
generated degraded land and social misery. Urban developments, without appropriate
planning, accelerated deforestation, the use of inappropriate technologies in forestall,
industrial, agricultural and livestock production, in addition to infrastructure works
implemented without due care, are among the main forms of destruction of biological
diversity.   There was also the introduction o f exotic species o f flora and fauna.
Historically, the lack of resources for research, of encouragement for sustainable
practices and conservation activities in an appropriate volume are factors that have
contributed to generating risks to the environment.
        Today, all Brazilian biomes present signs o f loss of biodiversity. The most severe
case i s that of the Atlantic Rainforest, which presently counts with less then 7% of its
original area. Deforestation - which began over 500 years ago -was accelerated in the
19thcentury.
        Another factor that may represent a threat to native fauna and flora i s the use of
genetically modified organisms (GMOs), without appropriate care. The government has a
clear vision of the importance of establishing guidelines for bio-safety and improving



                                           96

                TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                       (NOT OFFICIAL)

mechanisms for the fight against bio-piracy. That i s the light under which the government
has sent to Congress the bio-safety bill, which has already been approved by the Federal
House of Representatives and i s presently being submitted to the Senate.
         Biological diversity provides services and performs an important role in the
Nation's economy and safety, representing a comparative advantage that could be better
exploited. The maintenance of biological resources i s essential for assuring pest and
disease control, so as to allow for the development of agricultural varieties and products,
industrial or not, such as phytotherapeutic products, drugs or foodstuffs. In addition to
these services, we should also mention their function inthe stabilization of the climate, in
the purification of air and water, in the maintenance of soil fertility, as well as their role
inthe nutrients cycle.
         Inthe field of food safety, we may refer to the diversity of species and variety of
plants used daily by Brazilian farmers, traditional communities, indigenous people,
quilombolas and on our own table. A major part of such variety has not been incorporated
by the marketplace logic so far and represents a true asset, with potential for contributing
to the development of the country's agricultural competitiveness.
         The National Biodiversity Policy (NBP), established by Decree no. 4339,.of2002,
i s the legal instrument that provides for the principles and guidelines for the protection of
the Brazilian biological diversity.
         One o f the strategies for the conservation of biodiversity i s the creation of
protected areas. According to international recommendations, a minimum o f 10 percent
of each biome should be under Integral Protection Units. Presently, about 2.61 percent of
the national territory meets such condition and 5.52 percent i s protected by Units for
Sustainable Use. Conservation Units (CUs) do not represent an obstacle to development.
On the contrary: they deliver environmental services to society as a whole and may
assure income to the communities living in the area or around it, by means of the
sustainable use of natural resources, ecotourism, in addition to favoring scientific
research. They create and favor local productive arrangements and are a factor of wealth
distribution among the poor populations inthe less assisted regions of the country.
         The National System of Conservation Units (SNUC), established by Law no.
9985 of 2000, has standardized the criteria for the creation and management of CUs and
has given the first steps towards the institutionalization of ecological corridors and C U
mosaics. It has integrated the Units of the Federal Government, o f the State governments,
of the Federal District and of municipal governments, into the same legal framework,
providing for a true system, within the spirit of SISNAMA. Nevertheless, the system has
not been provided with full regulations, nor does it count with the infrastructure and the
human resources needed for its effective functioning. Another challenge for the
strengthening of SNUC i s the assurance of popular participation.
         The recognition, the management and the sustainable use o f biodiversity are
major challenges to be addressed by the government and Brazilian society. There i s a
need for an exchange of experiences between communities and social sectors and also for
the aggregation of value to their products through the use of technology.




                                            97

                TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                       (NOT OFFICIAL)

         Forests represent 64.3 percent of the Brazilian territory, 550 million hectares,
 most of them native. In addition to the role they play in terms o f Biodiversity and
 Climate, they are a resource base for the production of timber, paper and cellulose,
 furniture, firewood and coal for domestic consumption, not to mention the non-timber
 products, such as essential oils, rubber, nuts, non-elastic gums, fibers and many others.
 The timber sector i s responsible for a quite significant share of the Gross Domestic
 Product and employment. Hence, there i s an evident merit in strengthening the whole
 network o f forest products and services, be it for research, by adding value or by their use
 and final destination.
         The Brazilian reality calls for a forest resources management system, with an
 emphasis on the promotion of management, including the multiple use of forests. The
 importance of a specific approach for environmental management and sustainable
 production programs on indigenous land, quilombola and traditional communities has
 been identified. The consumption of agro-forest products from managed and cultivated
 natural areas must be promoted, both at the national and local levels.
         Inthe last 18months the Brazilian government has achieved progress inthis field,
 as well through the promotion o f a) the inclusion (mainstreaming) of actions of combat
'to bio-piracy in the governmental agenda; b) the creation of the Atlantic Rainforest and
 Cerrado Workgroups; c) the installation of the National Commission on Biodiversity
 (CONABIO); d) the ratification of the Cartagena Protocol on Bio-safety and e) the
 continuation of the implementation of the Protected Areas o f the Amazon Program
 (ARPA).
         The critical situation of the Atlantic Rainforest has caused an ample mobilization
 of society which, with the decisive action of the Brazilian government, has resulted in the
 approval by the Federal House of Representatives o f the Atlantic Rainforest bill,
 presently being discussed by the Federal Senate.         The continuity of efforts by the
 government and society renew the hopes for the conservation of these remainders and
 even for the recovery of degraded areas, upon approval by the Brazilian Congress and its
 implementation.
         As to the forest issue, during the last months, the government has been carrying
 out and promoting actions aimed at changing the Brazilian extractivist reality. To be
 highlighted are: a) the establishment of the Target Plan for Forest Activity; b) the
 launching and constitution of the Coordination Committee o f the National Forest
 Program (CONAFLOR); c) the launching of the Plan for the Prevention and Control of
 Deforestation in the Legal Amazon, proposed by the interministerial workgroup; d) the
 forwarding of a solution for the seized mahogany and e) draft o f the bill on Public Forest
 Management to be forwarded to the President's Office (Casu Civil).
         Looking towards the future, the government shall continue to invest its best
 efforts in achieving: a) a reduction in the deforestation rates in the Amazon and the
 protection of the existent Atlantic Forest; b) the approval of the policy on access to
 genetic resources and to Traditional Knowledge; c) the regulation and implementation of
 the new Biosafety Act; d) the regulation of the legislation on Conservation Units,
 specifically regarding forests; e) the drafting of the National Plan for Reforestation and
 Recovery of DegradedAreas; f) reformulation of the collection mechanismfor the Forest



                                             98

                TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                       (NOT OFFICIAL)

Replacement fee; g) establishment of effective credit lines for forest management
activities and h) approval of the Public Forest Management Act within the shortest
possible timeframe.


        I11 Water Resources andFight against Desertification
           -
        Within Brazil there are 12 Hydrographic Regions, as defined by the National
Water Resources Council (CNRH), in which the distribution and conditions of access to
water are quite distinct. There are regions with a high water potential and with quality
water, while others are semi-arid regions, with poorly distributed rainfall. There also are
urban areas facing serious problems of water pollution and flooding. Injust one century,
the Brazilian population has tripled and the consumption of water i s six times greater.
Estimates are that over 30 percent of all water collected by the water treatment plants i s
lost between the reservoirs and the final consumers, due to problems in the supply system
and operation failures. Sewage discharge i s also a concern.
        Another relevant aspect i s the water quality o f springs, directly related to the use
and occupation of soils, in rural as well as urban areas. As in many other countries, the
growth o f cities has caused their impermeabilization, with the consequent reduction of
the degree o f infiltration of rainwater and an increase inthe production of solid waste and
sewage, year after year. In addition to that, only 20 percent of all urban sewage i s
processed by a sewage treatment plant before reaching the water courses. Rivers also
receive the effluents of industries and may be the target of accidental leaks of chemicals
and oil, among other risks. So far, still very few Brazilian cities count with an efficient
solid waste management system, from the environmental point of view.
        In rural areas, agricultural and livestock activities, if conducted in an
inappropriate manner, cause the accumulation of pesticides and nutrients in both soil and
water. The reduction of the vegetal cover, inappropriate agricultural practices, earth
moves in high declivity areas and the degradation of pastures cause erosion and rain
wash. Losses in water quality cause direct negative impacts upon the whole chain of
living beings inthe affected region.
        Environmental degradation affects society in a differentiated way, having a larger
impact on the poor populations living on the outskirts of the large urban centers and the
low income rural communities. This picture does not favor sustainable development.
Paradigms need to be changed and initiatives based on the principles established b y the
MillenniumGoals and Agenda 21 must be strengthened.
        Despite persisting evident challenges, the water resources management in Brazil
has achieved quite some progress in recent years, through the enactment o f Law no.
9433, of 1997, which defines hydrographic basins as the planning and management units
for water resources and sets forth several principles for their management.
        Inaddition to the Federal Law and to the creation of the National Water Agency
(ANA) and of the National Water Resources Council (CNRH), several state legislations
for Water Resources have been enacted and state management bodies have been
nominated. Other achievements are the implementation of the National Water Resources
Management System, the expansion and qualification of the National Network for Water


                                            99

                TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

Quality and Control, as well as the Hydrologic Monitoring and Information Network. The
Union has started the implementation of grants for the use of water by ANA and the
collection of voluntary contributions for the use of water, in the State of Cear6 and in the
Paruiba do SuZ River Basin (a federal river).
        Within the sphere of the Federal Government, much has been done inthis regard,
despite the short period of time: a) a reference document for the preparation of the
National Plan for Water Resources has been prepared; b) the Water Use Collection
Technical Chamber has been established within the scope of CNRH; c) the pilot system
for alert to critical events in the Paraiba do SuZ river has been implemented; d) the
Monitoring Network and the National System for Hydrometeorological Information
continue to be implemented; e) over fifty Basin Committees have been established; f) a
Provisionary Measure, which already has been approved by Congress, was issued,
assuring that all revenues from water collection will benefit the corresponding Basins; g)
an Interministerial Workgroup has been created with the task of drafting a National Plan
for Combating Desertification and h) the scope for a National Action Plan for Combating
Desertification has been defined.
        For the next 30 months, the following priority actions are planned: a) maintenance
and improvement of the Monitoring Network for Water Quality and Quantity and of the
National System on Hydrometeorological Information; b) support to states in the
management o f water resources; c) expansion of the hydrological alert systems inthe SZo
Francisco and Doce River Basins; d) launching and implementation of the National
Water Resources Plan and of the National Planfor Combating Desertification; e) drafting
of Plans for priority basins; f) creation of, at least, six additional Water Committees and
Agencies and g) regulation of the law that establishes water collection and granting
mechanisms for their implementation inpriority Basins.


        IV EconomicInstruments
             -
        In the environmental area, emphasis has been given so far to command and
control policies. Nevertheless, the joint construction of sustainable development may be
largely favored by the implementation of a set of economic instruments and incentives.
        The inclusion of principles -- such as the User-Payer or Pollutant-Payer Principles
-- infiscal policy instruments, i s an example of alternatives that deserve being evaluated.
We wish to highlight, though, that any proposal to be studied must foresee, in addition to
environmental sustainability, the aspects inherent to the fiscal requirements. Inthis same
line, it i s necessary to assess and study ways of re-activating the commitments of the
Green Protocol by public Banks, eventually opening the Protocol to private institutions,
inconsensuswith the fiscal resources available.
        The expansion of the Public Administration Environmental Agenda, aiming at
including environmental criteria in public procurement, i s an option that, even though
incipient, also deserves to be the object of more detailed study.
        As to the economic instruments, progress has also been achieved, as can be
demonstrated by the following: a) inclusion of the Constitutional Principle o f Defense of
the Environment in the Constitution's Chapter on Economic Order, by means of


                                           100

               TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                     (NOT OFFICIAL)

differentiated treatment according to the environmental impact of products and services
(EC no. 42/2003); b) inclusion of environmental criteria in some fiscal and tax regulatory
frameworks, as was the case of the ecological VAT (ZCMS ecoldgico) and o f the Rural
Territorial Tax (Zmposto Territorial Rural - ZTR); c) promoting the introduction of
Sustainable Development criteria in the management of Constitutional Funds, including
through the creation of a specific workgroup for the Middle-West Constitutional Fund
(Fundo Constitucional do Centro Oeste - FCO); c) beginning of the work by the MF and
MMA in order to assess the inclusion of environmental sustainability criteria in fiscal
instruments and e) establishment of an interministerial workgroup for the improvement
and effective utilization of the Green Protocol and similar instruments.
        The government also has a large agenda aimed at economic instruments. To be
highlighted are: a) to perform the diagnosis and identification of fiscal and tax policy
tools, subject to alteration due to environmental sustainability. b) to draft proposals for
fiscal and tax policy measures for inducing environmental sustainability; c) to prepare
environmental sustainability criteria for the Constitutional Funds, for the pension fund
(Fundo de Garantiapor Tempo de Sewip - FGTS) resources and for the federal official
banks; d) to review and suggest measures for the revitalization of the Green Protocol by
means of a commitment between the official credit agencies, the MMA and the MF;e) to
monitor the new economic instruments eventually created and f) to apply and monitor the
efficiency o f the implementation of environmental criteria designed for official credit
instruments. This i s an ambitious agenda, that will demand continuous work so that, in
the future, effective progress may be achieved.


        V Licensing, EnvironmentalQuality andEnvironmental Emergencies
          -
        The present form of environmental licensing in Brazil i s a conquest of society ,
which has understood and accepted the historical -- and even cultural -- importance of
environmental conservation. It represents the main management tool used by
environmental entities, probably the most sophisticated instrument, if compared to other
developing countries. Due to its decentralized format, the states and municipalities are in
charge of most of the activities to be licensed. Along time, social themes have been
incorporated, in addition to the strictly environmental focus. Given this activity's broad
scope, irrespective of the State 's apparatus in its several levels aiming for a quick and
safe action in this sector, environmental licensing requires complementary procedures
based on incentives and good practices.
        A closer interaction with the productive and planning sectors is necessary, in the
sense of mainstreaming the environmental issue into the conception           of investment
projects. Such sectors often consider environmental issues, especially licensing, merely
as one stage along the execution of their projects. If not conducted properly, such process
ends up transforming licensing into the 'drain' o f social and environmental issues that
have remained unsolved along the whole process of preparation and study of the works.
In such cases, things are taken as fait accompli, and the poor populations and the natural
environment are the ones to be penalized. Very often the results have been lawsuits
followed by economic, social and environmental losses. The Federal Government has
taken on the challenge of addressing such issues in a direct and objective manner.



                                           101

                TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                       (NOT OFFICIAL)

        Major challenges are being faced by the physical infrastructure sectors, mainly
energy and transportation, both of which are the responsibility of federal environment
bodies, especially IBAMA.
        Licensing i s presently facing a whole set of problems. To be highlighted are: a)
B A M A ' s institutional deficiencies, in some cases linked to the lack of personnel and
operational means; b) deficiencies of other institutions related to the licensing process; c)
practices adopted by public and private entrepreneurs who, very often, do not present
appropriate projects and reports or lose interest in the undertaking without informing the
body responsible for the licensing; d) lawsuits promoted by the Federal Public Ministry
(MPF), frequently questioning licensing aspects, including the competence for
conducting the process, the project's technical merit or that of the environmental studies
or even the conduction of the process itself; e) social conflicts that, because they have not
been previously solved, drain into the environmental licensing phase, and finally, f ) legal
conflicts, as i s the case of the regularization of old infrastructure, built long before the
legislation on licensing came into force.
        Also regarding the issue of Environmental Quality: the country has achieved
rather significant progress in the implementation of new tools, as i s the case o f the
Strategic Environmental Assessment (AvaZiu@o Ambientul Estrute'gicu - AAE), the
creation o f the State Tripartite Commissions and o f the National Tripartite Commission,
inwhich the three levels of government search to harmonize concepts and ways of action
and to improve the definition of their roles, according to the National Environment
System. Also to be highlighted i s the regulation, through the National Environment
Council (CONAMA), of more appropriate standards, processes and tools for licensing
and environmental quality.
        Control over the use of pesticides and hazardous chemicals has also been the
subject of concern by the Federal Government, as well as the generation and
contamination by hazardous waste. Thus, the objective i s the forecasting and prevention
of environmental emergencies. The present approach, which i s characterized by the
occurrence of accidents followed by corrective measures, must be substituted b y the
identification of potential problems and the permanent adoption of preventive measures.
        As to the improvement of the environmental licensing tool or system, during the
last period, the Federal Government has promoted: a) studies on the last generation of
Strategic Environmental Assessment (AvuZiq6es Ambientuis Estrute'gicus - AAE); b)
some sector studies on the application of AAE; c) the creation and implementation of
National and State Tripartite Commissions, for whom licensing i s to be considered a
national priority; d) issuing of environmental licensing handbooks and routines and e)
increase in the transparency of information about environmental licensing after the
enactment of Law no. 10650, of 2003, which covers the access to environmental
information.
        In the field of environmental quality management, to be highlighted are: a)
publication of Decree addressing the management of pesticides; b) enactment of
CONAMA Resolution no. 334, which addresses the final destination of empty packages
of pesticides and of Resolution no. 314, which provides for products aimed for
remediation; c) realization of several public hearings on remediators and impurities; d)



                                            102

               TRANSLATION OF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

consolidation of the first part of the Mercury Program (PROMER); e) institution of
specific priority action within CONASQ on inter-state and trans-border transportation of
controlled substances and hazardous waste; f) preparation of the Draft for CONAMA
Resolution on criteria and reference values for the presence of chemicals for the
protection of the quality of the soil and guidelines and procedures for the management of
contaminated areas; g) establishment of the CONAMA workgroup Technical Chamber
on Health, Environmental Sanitation and Waste Management;                h) the integrated
management model for seafront areas has been developed and its application has been
started; i)a sub-component on coastline management has been included in PNMA I1-
National Environment Program - Phase I1and j) the PNA and SIGERCOM - Coastline
and Marine Management Information System have been consolidated
        Finally, the following environmental emergency issues have been successfully
addressed: a) the signature of the Term of Commitment between the MMA and several
State Environment Bodies for the establishment of a strategy for Prevention and Rapid
Response to Emergencies with Hazardous Chemicals - P2R2; b) publishing of a MMA
Administrative Rule establishing workgroups regarding the issue of environmental
emergencies; they have completed their tasks inMarch of this year and, based on that, we
have been able to approve P2R2; c) we have carried out a survey on the present status of
several OEMAs and of IBAMA, regarding the response to environmental emergencies
and d) the Environmental Accidents and Emergencies Response Program (PROATEND)
has been established and made operational.
        As to environmental licensing, the government will seek to implement the
following measures in the coming periods: a) the regulation of AAE as an instrument of
the National Environment Policy, articulating it and integrating it to the ecologic-
economic zoning and to environmental licensing; b) regulation of Article 12 of
CONAMA Resolution no. 237, of 1997, regarding the simplification o f licensing
procedures for some special projects; c) regulating and divulging, to all three levels o f
government, the relationship between the bidding for infrastructure projects and works
(Law no. 8666, of 1993) and the rules and procedures for environmental licensing; d) the
optimization of the IBAMA infrastructure for the execution of licensing under its
competence; e) regulation of new techniques and procedures for the participation of the
community in the environmental licensing of large enterprises; f) the establishment of
rules for the decentralized functioning of environmental licensing and g) the
establishment of legal norms for the implementation of environmental quality indicators,
new tools for the complementary management of licensing and criteria for impact
evaluation. Such measures will require additional studies and their discussion with
society in general for their progress and full implementation.
        As to Environmental Quality Management aspects, the advancement of the
following measures have been highlighted from among government objectives: a) the
technical and operational strengthening of the execution o f the evaluation and risk
management of contamination b y hazardous substances; b) promoting alternative
products to the use of pesticides and similar products; c) evaluating strategies for assuring
financial resources for the remediation of damages in degraded areas; d) identification
and divulging of technological and methodological instruments for the rehabilitation and
recuperation of contaminated areas; e) mapping of vulnerable routes for the



                                           103

                TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

transportation of hazardous substances; f) identification and selection of substances and
products that represent a major concern in terms of illegal traffic; g) development of
mechanisms for the identification of pollution sources and risk areas; h) updating o f the
proposal for a National Waste Policy that has been approved by CONAMA; i)making
available updated information on the consumption, production, eco-toxicological profile
of pesticides and similar products; j) to implement PROMER; k) to improve the
efficiency o f the repression and combat to the traffic of illegal or controlled substances; 1)
to prevent the inappropriate disposal of illegal or controlled substances and waste; m) to
improve instruments of control and inspection in order to prevent environmental
contamination; n) to review the Federal Action Plan for Coastline Management;            0) to
define order guidelines and general rules based on the Macro-diagnosis of the Coastal
Zone; p) to define a National Program for the Monitoringof Environmental Quality at the
Coastal Zone; q) to establish a workgroup for the drafting of the Technical Code for the
Practice of Crustacean Farming; r) to develop catalogs of key enterprises that may be
implemented as an attraction; s) to apply the Harbor Environmental Management model,
jointly with the Ministry o f Labor (MT) and t) to implement the Monitoring System, with
the publication of periodical reports on the quality of the Coastal Zone.
        This ambitious agenda will be continuously submitted to efforts of priorization
and discussion with society in order to achieve its effective unfolding in the short and
medium run.
        As to environmental and hydrologic emergencies, there is a very diversified
agenda. From among its many actions, the following may be mentioned: a) the beginning
of the implementation of P2R2, providing for a Database to be made available to all
Program members, also providing for the capacity buildingof their Human Resources; b)
integration of hydrological alert systems of the SGo Francisco and Doce Rivers into P2R2
and c) the effective implementation of P2R2, through the structuring of environmental
emergency areas at IBAMA and at the OEMAs, of support to the states and to IBAMA in
the mapping o f risks and the divulging of registries and databases on hazardous
substances.


        VI -Mainstreaming Environment and Agrarian Development
                              -
        Almost one third of the Brazilian population - 52 million people - live inthe 4500
municipalities of rural Brazil and an additional 22 million in 570 municipalities
considered "rururban", a denomination that reflects their mix of urban and rural economic
activities. During the 1990s, 1109 rural municipalities have experienced a population
growth above the state and national averages, revealing a trend towards the discovery of
new market, labor and income niches inthese municipalities.
        In Brazil, the agricultural production model aimed at exporting, if unaware of
environmental issues, causes soil erosion, waste o f water, loss of biodiversity resources
and contamination by pesticides. Additionally, this model usually does not benefit small
and large farmers alike, and does not always contribute to food safety.
        Inpast decades, programs aimed at facilitating access to land, housing, drinking
water and electricity were based on assistentialism or on the compensation for losses.



                                           104

               TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

Land destined to family farming was either insufficient, of bad quality or located in
marginal production areas or even lacking infrastructure, distributed along agricultural
frontiers, having advanced over natural vegetation areas, destroying biodiversity and the
natural environment. Inorder to try to solve social tensions in other regions, farmers were
settled in marginal regions, carrying with them inappropriate productive systems. They
reproduced the dominant and traditional model, removing the native vegetation, usually
through the use of fire, substituting it for annual crops and livestock. The low
sustainability of these actions was accrued b y the destruction of legal reserve and
permanent protection areas, such as riparian forests, with serious impacts upon
biodiversity andwater availability.
        In response to this situation, organic or ecological agriculture, agro-forestry and
agro-ecology have been experiencing strong growth, in terms of production as well as in
the opening o f new market opportunities. Cooperativism and associativism also represent
important instruments for the development of family and ecological farming, contributing
to rural development. Rural families are beginning to diversify their economic activities.
The modernization of family farming has provided for greater opportunities of
employment generation, not only due to the possibility of a diffuse industrialization, but
also due to the demand for an endless number of technical, social and personal services.
        The design of the new National Land Reform Plan has taken such analysis into
account. The expansion of the sustainable rural development paradigm will impose
demands     to   SISNAMA: rural         environmental    management       instruments   and
methodologies, the capacity building of technicians and local leaders in participatory
planning, funding of environmental infrastructure, permanent follow-up and evaluation of
actions to be implemented locally.
        Some challenges have been identified: a) the capacity building of technicians and
settled families in environmental management, considering that sustainable solutions are
specific for each ecosystem and that agro-ecological knowledge requires much more time
to be duplicated than other technological packages; b) the association of farming
settlements with extractive reserves and settlements, in an integrated vision about the use
and protection of territory and c) respect for environmental legislation, which includes
licensing, the demarcation of common use legal reserves for settlers and the maintenance
of environmental conservation areas.
        Out of the 4528 land reform settlement projects promoted by INCRA, very few
count *with environmental licensing, but a conduct adjustment term has already been
signed. The MMA and the MDA (Ministry of Agrarian Development) are both searching
for ways to regulate this situation within the shortest possible period o f time, in
accordance with the state environment bodies.
        The government already has undertaken important steps towards solving the
mainstreaming of Environment in Agrarian Development, including: a) a Conduct
Adjustment Term (TAC) between the MPF, MMA,MDA, INCRA and BAMA has been
signed, aiming at assuring the social and environmental development in settlement
projects; b) a workgroup has been set up with the objective of following up on the
implementation of the TAC; c) a survey of environmental liabilities in all existing
settlements has been made; d) specific nuclei for environmental management have been



                                          105

               TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

implemented at the INCRA headquarters and Regional Bureaus; e) a new National Land
Reform Plan has been drafted, including criteria for environmental sustainability; f) an
intensive policy for technical assistance at settlements has been adopted and g) a model
for forestry settlements has been designed.
        Short and medium run plans shall be focused through the following actions or
activities: a) simplification and standardization of environmental licensing procedures,
for land reform settlements as well as for family farming projects; b) almost the totality
of old settlement projects have been forwarded for regularization; c) new settlement
projects will be promoted by adopting environmental variables; d) promotion o f technical
assistance and capacity building for settler families and e) execution of geo-referencing
of land properties within the area of influence of highway BR-163.


        VI1 Mainstreaming Environmentand Cities
             -                  -
        All 5561 Brazilian municipalities are marked by huge inequalities in terms of
living standards, social inclusion and citizenship. Historically, regional centers and
metropolises have concentrated the economic and human development opportunities.
Meanwhile, municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants have often faced a gradual
economic and demographic draining. That increased the migratory flow to regional
centers and metropolises. In Brazil, 81 percent of the population presently lives in urban
areas.
        Internally, the large centers present strong contrasts: cosmopolitan central areas
with outskirts crowded with illegal settlements, inadequate living conditions, and without
access to public urban services. Doubtlessly, the most severe pollution and environmental
degradation occurs, in a larger volume, at the districts where the poor populations live.
Environmental justice movements have vehemently called the attention to this issue. The
large cities' social and environmental debt calls for a large amount of resources, as well as
new management tools and institutional arrangements.
        The Steering Plans, whenever they do exist, have been based on the dialogue
established with the formal city. Thus, they do not always serve the real needs, which are
often informal. Problems such as flood control, pollution, final discharge o f waste, the
protection of wells and the occupation of risk areas must be addressed. In order to
achieve such objective, the Ministry of Cities was created in 2003, with the mission of
integrating public policies for this specific territory and this population. In2003, both the
first National Conference of Cities and the first National Conference on the Environment
took place, where the bases for a more intense environmental agenda for urban centers
was launched.
        Modern societies are huge waste producers, in a direct relationship with the
production and consumption of goods and services. Gas and liquid emissions, pollutants
and large volumes of solid waste - in the form of plastics, metals, paper, glass, food and
discharged objects - are released by industries, agro-industries, hospitals, means of
transportation and households. In64 percent of all Brazilian municipalities, solid waste i s
deposited in open air dumping sites. The degradation of domestic solid waste allows for
the proliferation of flies, rats and other disease vectors. It produces odors, contaminates



                                            106

               TRANSLATION OF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

the soil and aquifers, in addition to exhausting the oxygen from rivers and lakes, killing
fish and algae and turning water improper for consumption. Plastic and metal wrappings
block sewage systems and drains, causing floods. About 16million people are not served
by domestic garbage collection services inthe cities.
        Organic compounds, such as organ chlorines, and inorganic compounds, such as
heavy metals (lead, mercury) called toxic waste, cause diseases and do not degrade inthe
natural environment. Waste produced by hospitals and laboratories represent a high risk
due to their potential for transmitting infectious diseases.
        Recycling i s not a magical solution. It does not destroy toxic waste and the
recycling o f paper, glass or metal requires energy and water. Therefore, most of the
materials cannot be endlessly recycled without loss to their quality. Thus, it i s best to re-
use them or, even better, to produce as little waste as possible. The review of
consumption habits, and, especially, of waste, represents an important measure in the
environmental sustainability agenda.
        About 20% of the Brazilian population i s not served by water supply, the homes
of 57% are not connected to the public sewage network and 80% do not count with any
type o f sewage treatment. People without appropriate sanitary sewage systems are usually
those living in precarious dwellings, in slums, land occupations, irregular lots and low-
income districts. The cost of de-polluting rivers and bays must be included in the cost of
the lack o f environmental sanitation. Intuitively, expenditures incurred in for basic
sanitation are expected to be compensated for at large by savings inthe Health sector.
        The tendency to impermeabilize the soil with cement and asphalt and the
reduction in areas reserved for public squares, parks, gardens and wooded areas have
been gradually transforming large cities into greenhouses. The illegal occupation of water
course margins contributes to the floodings that are more and more frequent in medium
size towns and large cities. Land slides and erosion are the natural disaster phenomena
that have caused the largest number of deaths in Brazil. They hit the dwellers of slums
and illegal settlements especially hard.
        At the legal level, the Statute of the Cities and, at the institutional level, the
creation o f the Ministry o f Cities, are important conquests that open way for the
development of systemic approaches to the development of cities. The much needed re-
focusing of policies and of urban development depends on the restructuring of municipal,
metropolitan, state and federal management systems. That will allow for the inter-sectoral
planning and the implementation of joint programs for urban territorial order, housing,
transportation, environmental sanitation and for employment and income generation.
        The challenges faced by urban areas are numerous and must be addressed in
association with local authorities. A solid waste policy, the addressing of sanitation issues
and the development of urban planning instruments that consider environmental aspects
aiming at improving the quality of life in the urban environment are actions with great
potential for a positive return.
        The Brazilian government has already achieved considerable progress during the
present administration in regard to the mainstreaming of Environment into the urban /
city sector: a) the PRODES Program, for the de-pollution o f Hydrographic Basins, i s



                                            107

               TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

being continued and i s conditioned to results; b) an inter-ministerial technical group has
been established for studyingthe integrated issues related to Environmental Sanitation; c)
we have begun the certification of the PRODES projects; d) we have initiated the support
to the formatting of the Integrated Solid Waste Management Plans; e) we are promoting
pilot projects for the drafting of Steering Plans in accordance with the new rules set forth
by the Law, which has created the statute of the Cities, including criteria for
environmental sustainability; f ) we are continuing the programs for the saving and
rational use o f water for urban supply and g) we are supporting the capacity building o f
scavenger cooperatives.
        From our future agenda, we may mention: a) to continue with PRODES,
expanding the 2003 targets; b) to study financing alternatives; c) to improve the
certification o f presented projects; d) to prepare studies for the de-pollution o f two
metropolitan bays; e) to prepare a proposal for the institutional design for the shared
and/or associated management of water resources in metropolitan regions; f ) to regulate
the National Policy for Solid Waste; g) to carry out public consultations in order to
discuss the proposal of the National Sanitation Policy; h) to continue supporting
municipalities in the drafting of their Integrated Solid Waste Management Plans; i)to
continue supporting municipalities in the drafting o f their Steering Plans, in accordance
with the rules established under the statute of the cities; j) to carry out studies and
research for the construction of integrated environmental sanitation programs and k) to
propose a new program for the saving and efficient use of water.


        VI11 Mainstreaming EnvironmentandTourism
             -                   -
        Brazil's continental dimensions cover from equatorial regions, to the North, up to
extra-tropical areas, to the South, with strong climatic and geomorphologic differences,
an extraordinary ecological, social and cultural diversity. In short, offering great
opportunities for the development o f tourism.
        Inthe global context, the Tourism industry presently is the activity with the
highest economic growth rates. It generates annual revenues of US$ 3.5 trillion and, in
the last decade only, has expanded its activities by 57%.
        Compared to other Brazilian export products, the income increase generated by
tourism i s quite relevant. Inrecent years, this increase was of 41%, 28 percentage points
higher than the growth in revenues from the iron ore exported during the same period,
and 30 percentage points higher than the amount generated by sugar exports. Interms o f
foreign currency volume, it i s second only to soybeans.
        InBrazil, theMinistry ofTourismholdstheresponsibilityfor the execution ofthe
National Tourism Policy, in joint action with the Brazilian Institute for Tourism
(EMBRATUR). The purpose of the National Tourism Policy is the development of
tourism as a national source o f income, and complies with the following basic guidelines:
the practice of tourism as a way of promoting the recognition and conservation of the
country's natural and cultural heritage and the recognition of man as the final purpose for
the development of tourism.




                                           108

                TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                       (NOT OFFICIAL)

        The competences of EMBRATUR include, among others: a) to present to the
Federal Government rules and measures required for the execution of the National
Tourism Policy; b) to execute the decisions which, for that end, may be recommended to
it; c) to carry out the inventory, to rank and to order the use and the occupation of areas
and sites that are of interest to tourism; d) to stimulate the good use o f natural and
cultural resources that are an integral part of the tourism heritage, with a view to their
conservation and e) to stimulate initiatives aimed at preserving the natural environment
and the social and cultural physiognomy of tourism sites and of the populations affected
by their development.
        In Brazil, both the local population and visitors usually enjoy spending their
leisure time by the beach, by lakes or at spa resorts. Regions with such characteristics
usually start a process of expansion of their economic activities, especially those
associated to the third sector and to the entertainment of urban populations. Rivers,
waterfalls and lakes are the most sought after, reinforcing the need for the establishment
of local policies for the conservation of the water quality and of site characteristics.
        The environmental damages caused by the non-sustainable development of
tourism lead to pollution, landscape degradation and the destruction o f fauna and flora,
among others. Pollution - which causes a decrease in the availability o f water resources -
and the overall degradation of the environment, interferes in leisure and recreation
activities, causing the tourists that have caused them to withdraw. This characterizes a
vicious cycle, with a fast depreciationof public andprivate investments.
         The planning of tourism activities that considers the environment's support
capacity and the valuation of the country's natural and cultural resources i s essential for
preventing and minimizing their social and environmental impacts.
         During the last four years, the Federal Government and the states have invested
US$ 8.0 billion in tourism support works. In the Northeastern Region only, seven new
airports have been built, 22,000 square meters of historic heritage have been renovated,
17 basic sanitation projects have been executed and 280 kilometers of highways have
been built. As an answer to public investments, an additional US$ 6.0 billion have been
and will be investedby the private sector innew tourism enterprises.
         Inthe tourism and travel sector, ecotourismis the segment that features the largest
growth rate, generating an ongoing increase in the supply and demand for new tourism
destinations. Ecotourism in Brazil could be better planned, so that the market-based
stimuli may not subtract the possibility for social, economic and environmental benefits.
When such planning does not exist, the concept and the image o f the product itself in the
domestic and foreign markets may be jeopardized. Ecotourism must be understood as a
segment of the tourism activity that uses -- in a sustainable manner -- the natural and
cultural heritage, promotes its conservation and aims at the development of an
environmental awareness provided by the interpretation and knowledge of the
environment, promoting the well-being of the population involved. Nevertheless, the
achievement of such objectives calls for the joint efforts of government -- as the inducing
agent --,of the private sector and o f the population involved, as the promoting agents of
the implementation o f creative and practical measures that may value the local natural
and cultural assets.



                                            109

                TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                     (NOT OFFICIAL)

        Regarding Tourism and Environment, the Federal Administration already has
sponsored some important progress. Some examples: a) the creation of the National
Program for Ecotourism; b) the restructuring of PRODETUR, in tune with the new
National Tourism Plan; c) the regionalization of Tourism Planning and Management - the
Brazilian Routes Program;      d) the establishment of a WG for the Certification of
Sustainable Tourism; e) the signature of a Term o f Cooperation between the Ministry of
Tourism and the MMA and f) development of a Tourism Development Plan for the
Lower SLio Francisco area.
        The future agenda i s ambitious as well. From among the several actions and
activities being planned for the coming periods, the following are to be highlighted: a) the
drafting and implementation of the joint environmental agenda and of an action plan for
environment and tourism; b) the drafting of the General Tourism Bill, with the
incorporation of criteria for sustainability and remittance to the National Congress; c)
definition o f support mechanisms to the certification of sustainable tourism; d) definition
of indicators and implementation of monitoring for the evaluation of the National
Tourism Plan; e) design of studies for the establishment of benchmarks for the evaluation
o f the support capacity of tourism sites; f) design of studies for the establishment of
benchmarks for the evaluation of the risk levels o f the physical media for the practice of
tourism; g) implementation of the environmental agenda for environment and tourism; h)
monitoring and evaluation of the National Tourism Plan and i)implementation of the
Plan for the Development of Tourism at the Lower SBo Francisco area.
        Even though the establishment of a framework for such a broad agenda i s
difficult, the importance of the theme itself i s an indication of the priority to be given to
the efforts to be made by the government inthis field.


        IX Mainstreaming Environment and NationalIntegration
            -                 -
        In Brazil, a strong process of polarization of the economic development in the
states of Rio de Janeiro and SBo Paulo has taken place in the last two hundred years. In
the 1970s,the two states, with only 3.5% of the country's physical area, were responsible
for 55% of the GDP and 30% of its population, with an unequal distribution of wealth
and of degradation inside the Federation and even within these two states.
        Nevertheless, a certain reversal has been observed in the last 25 years in the
economy in its process of geographic concentration, induced by several factors,
including: a) the formation of de-economies of scale inthe large centers; b) the expansion
movement of the agricultural frontier towards the Middle-West, with reflections upon the
localization of industries and services; c) governmental action with fiscal incentives for
the North, Northeast and Middle-West regions and d) the implementation of infra-
structure for investments in other areas.
        Inrecent years, the de-concentration of metropolitan areas, on the other hand, has
been associated to a trend towards the allocation o f a set of new projects in the interior of
S2o Paulo, south of Rio de Janeiro, as well as in Minas Gerais, ParanB, Santa Catarina
and Rio Grande do Sul, more than necessarily to the traditionally less developed regions,
such as the Northeast.



                                           110

               TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                      (NOT OFFICIAL)

        The level of regional and social inequalities certainly i s a problem that requires
actions at several levels, with a view to the development of the most backward regions.
        The Sustainable Amazon Plan (PAS), presently being prepared, i s a first attempt
to provide the vision of regional development with consistency. Following the
transversality (mainstreaming) guideline of Regional Integration and Environment, the
latter has been the object of intense articulation between the two Ministries.
        The challenges in this area that have been the focus of major attention by the
government are: a) ecologic-economic zoning and territorial order, in priority regions,
especially in the region of the federal highway BR-163 and of the deforestation arch; b)
the implementation of the Sustainable Amazon Plan and the fight against deforestation in
the Amazon; c) the revitalization of the S2o Francisco River Basin and d) water for the
semi-arid.
        The government has been quickly advancing in the implementation of the
mainstreaming agenda. Inthe last months, the following initiatives have been undertaken:
a) the consolidation of a methodology for the preparation of the Ecologic-economic
zoning, republishing the "Methodological Guidelines for ZEE within the National
Territory", in consensus with several executive agents; b) the creation o f a ZEE Brazil
Consortium for the integration of existing information and the establishment o f an Inter-
ministerial WG for the Sustainable Development of the region under the influence of
highway BR-163.
        As our agenda for future actions, we intend to: a) carry out ZEE in the
1:1,000,000 scale for the whole country; b) support the execution of ZEE inthe states and
municipalities; c) carry out ZEE in priority projects, such as the Parnaiba river basin and
the RIDE (Integrated Region o f the Federal District and Surroundings); d) promote a
normative implementation plan for the unfolding of ZEE as a territorial order tool; e)
implement joint operations between the MMA and the Ministries of Defense, Justice and
Labor in the fight against deforestation; f) define and implement the regularization o f
land ownership in the region; g) create priority areas in the region and h) launch the
Action Plan for the BR-163 region, resulting from the ZEE.
        As to the Revitalization of the Slio Francisco river Basin: a) we created a WG for
studying the problem; b) we set up the Slio Francisco Basin Committee and have sent to
Congress a constitutional amendment that proposes the creation of a Fund for the
Revitalization of the Siio Francisco river basin. Nevertheless, the following remains to be
done: a) the preparation and implementation of integrated strategic planning systems for
the SZo Francisco river basin, such as the Revitalization Plan for the S2o Francisco river
Basin, among others; b) the preparation of the S2o Francisco River Basin Plan; c) the
development of ZEE for the Basin and d) the expansion of protected areas within the
Basin through the creation of CUs.
        As to the Amazon, the Pilot Program for the Protection of the Brazilian Tropical
Rainforest - also known as PPG7 - has been implemented, and the following progress has
been achieved by the government just recently: a) preparation of the Sustainable Amazon
Plan (PAS); b) the signature of the Terms for Cooperation between the President o f the
Republic and the Governors of the North for the preparation of the Plan and c) the



                                            111

                TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                        (NOTOFFICIAL)

 establishment of the Permanent Inter-ministerial Workgroup for the Reduction of the
 Deforestation Rates inthe Legal Amazon.
         The future agenda for the Amazon also includes: a) carrying out public
 consultations about the PAS' technical proposals; b) defining priority actions for the
 implementation of the Program, including them in the proposal for revision o f the PPA;
 c) starting the implementation of priority actions; d) carrying out inspection, monitoring
 and promotion actions foreseen under the Operative Plan for Combating Deforestation; e)
 rearticulating the PPG-7 according to the PAS guidelines; f) executing the set o f projects;
 g) reducing the gross deforestation rates and g) diversifying and verticalizing the
 production inextractive reserves.
         Finally, regarding water for the semi-arid and water works: a) we are executing
 sustainable programs for response to the demand for water in the semi-arid; b) we are
 designing programs that may allow us to serve the populations scattered throughout the
 rural areas o f the semi-arid; c) we have drafted a set of rules, which were transformed
 into an Administrative Rule of the MI, analyzing the technical aspects and moralizing
 the granting o f financial support by the Union to water works. For the future, we need to:

.a) guarantee new programs for responding to the demand for water in the semi-arid; b)
 set up a database on Water Projects at the MI and c) structure teams for the inspection
 and monitoring of water works at the Secretariat for Water Infrastructure o f the MI.


         X Mainstreaming EnvironmentandEnergy
           -                   -
         Around 30 million Brazilians live without the level of energy required for a
 reasonable quality of life. They depend on expensive, unclean and unreliable energy
 sources, such as kerosene oil lanterns, candles and firewood. The negative consequences
 for health and human development are endless. The smoke inside their houses, for
 example, causes respiratory problems and the poor lighting jeopardizes eyesight,
 reducing opportunities of study. The absence of electric energy often contributes to the
 perpetuation of the lack of opportunities for poor families.
         The Light For All Program (Luz Para Todos), since its launching in November
 2003 (Decree no. 4873 of 2003), has been developing several activities and discussions
 with sector agents, with the States and with the community in general, aiming at
 providing for the universal access to electricity by 2008 and, along this process, at using
 energy as a development driver, in order to improve the quality o f life of the populations
 served, increasing income and generating employment and the social inclusion o f the
 benefited families.
         Duringthis period, during the negotiation of service contracts for 2004 and 2005,
 several dozens of pioneer projects were contracted in several States. To be highlighted i s
 the service to the Nazar6 Community, in the municipality of Novo Santo AntGnio, in the
 State of Piaui, which features the lowest service rate in the country; the electrification of
 the Kalunga community in the municipality of Cavalcante, in Goiis; and o f the
 indigenous community of the Guat6 Indians, on Insua island, in the municipality of
 Corumbi, in Mato Grosso do Sul, in addition to actions on behalf o f agro-forestry
 communities inthe State of Acre.



                                            112

                TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                       (NOT OFFICIAL)

        Intensediscussions also have been carried out with the program's executive agents
and with the States, aiming at identifying service technologies adapted to the local
realities and o f low cost, that could be used inthe implementation of the program in each
locality. As a result, in June 2004, we have almost 40 contracts for the execution of
works for the Lights For All in all States of the country which, by end 2005, will benefit
about 3 million Brazilians.
        The development of an energy infrastructure in the country has, historically, been
based on technical criteria of the sector per se and on the pressure of demand for energy,
sometimes to the detriment of an integrated and systemic planning of the territory.
Hydropower plants -- that were the key of the country's growth in the last 50 years --
have occupied significant land areas, most of it appropriate for agriculture, and have
directly affected a great number of families, withdrawing them from their original area.
In the past, due to lack of proper care, there have been public health problems in the
surroundings of the flooded areas and the quality of water of the reservoirs was
jeopardized. A well-known example of the military period was the beginning of the
Tucurui operation, as the vegetation of the flooded areas was not previously withdrawn.
This problem has been gradually solved, due to the constant renewal of the dammed
water, and has become a less severe problem than hadbeen initially imagined.
        Within the scope of hydraulic utilization policies, projects should be designed in
accordance with each biome, taking into account the territory's potentialities and
weaknesses, so as to avoid or mitigate social and environmental impacts and guarantee
the sustainability.
        Brazil should continue to produce its electric energy based on renewable energy
sources through hydroelectric plants and, in addition, increase the participation of other
renewable sources inits energy matrix. For two decades, vegetal alcohol has been having
an important participation in the production of motor energy, representing a unique
experience in the world in the large scale substitution of oil derivates, long before the
signature of the Kyoto protocol. Biodiesel and blended fuels using vegetal oil derivates,
that already are incipient, have potential for diversifying and turning the Brazilian energy
matrix even more renewable. Sugar-cane bagasse, sawdust and firewood, either in direct
combustion or in gasification, constitute other renewable sources featuring an increased
use. The government i s also aware of the fact that there are regions in the country with
great potential for the production of wind energy. In spite of its high costs, the use of
 solar energy i s expanding, either for heat generation or for the generation of electricity.
        Decentralized renewable energy projects -- solar, wind, biomass and small
hydropower plants -- enable energy and social inclusion to be taken to populations
without access to this asset, in spite of the high cost of some of these options.
Decentralization represents, in some country regions, particularly in the Amazon, the
only feasible technical alternative to promote access to energy for a considerable portion
 of Brazilians, with low impacts to the environment.
        The Brazilian legislation on energy i s extensive and quite complex. Nevertheless,
the system i s basically constituted by the following bodies: Ministry of Mines and
Energy, National Council for Energy Policy (CNPE), National Petroleum Agency (ANP)
 and National Electric Energy Agency (ANEEL), in addition to public and private
 operators of production, transmission and distribution systems. The system does have


                                             113

               TRANSLATIONOF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                     (NOT OFFICIAL)

interfaces with the environment field, since the SISNAMA bodies are responsible for the
licensing and control of all energy installations. For that end the MMA and the MME
have recently signed a term of cooperation establishing ajoint work agenda, in which the
environmental issues have been mainstreamed into the sector's planning.
        This joint agenda concentrates upon three main points: a) the definition of
priorities within the set of energy enterprises to be licensed; b) integrated planning,
including the environmental issue in this phase and c) the improvement o f efficiency and
rationalization of energy uses.
        Given the essential role played by the generation of electric energy for the social
well-being o f the Brazilian population, and Brazil's success in producing energy with a
low net value of carbon emissions, except for the burning of firewood, this joint work --
also regarding the swiftness and rigor o f environmental licensing of energy projects -- i s
strategic for the country, as has been highlighted several times by the President of the
Republic.
        The Federal Government has achieved significant progress towards the
mainstreaming of Environment aspects in the Energy sector: a) a methodology has been
developed for the application of AAE in hydrographic basins, focused on the generation
o f hydropower energy; b) pilot studies have been carried out for the application o f AAE
in the petroleum and gas sectors; c) the National Congress has approved the new model
for the electric sector, creating conditions for environmental licensing to become
mandatory before the bidding for concessions; d) the Energy Planning Company
(Empresade Planejamento Estratkgico - EPE)has been created, being responsiblefor the
sector's strategic.and environmental planning; e) the institutional model for the electric
sector has been launched and has established that environmental licensing be carried out
before the bidding for concessions; f) a cooperation agreement has been signed between
the MMA and the MME for the implementation of a joint environmental agenda and g)
the Program for Support to Renewable Electric Energy Sources (PROINFA) has been
launched, thus assuring an important transfer of revenues to this sector.
        Government plans include some institutional actions and activities, such as: a) the
application of AAE procedures in the environmental evaluation of the set of enterprises
prioritized by the MME; b) the definition of customized procedures for the environmental
control of projects usingrenewable energy sources; c) the implementation o f EPE and the
structuring of its environmental area, with the participation of the MMA; d) the
implementation of a strategic plan for the conservation and rational use o f energy; e)
governmental action to assure that the concession of electric sector enterprises only be
released for bidding upon the issuing of the appropriate environmental licenses; f) the
improvement of the inventory manual for the Electric Sector and g) the inclusion of the
repotentialization inthe 10-year plan for the expansion of the electric sector.


Final Remarks

        Finally, we would like to inform that a Consultation Letter i s being prepared for
COFIEX (External Financing Commission) regarding a technical assistance Program
(Technical Assistance Loan - TAL) for environmental sustainability in support to the


                                          114

               TRANSLATION OF THE LETTEROFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                     (NOT OFFICIAL)

Programmatic Reform Program, in an total amount estimated between US$ 8,000,000
and US$ 10,000,000. These resources are expected to be approved in addition to the
budgetary and financial limits of the 2005 Annual Budgetary Act (Lei Orgamentciria
Anual - LOA), thus assuring that the studies being foreseen may effectively support the
results expected by the MMA and other participating ministries in compliance with the
commitment taken on under the present reform.
        We believe this i s the information the Brazilian government should be presenting
to you at this stage concerning the government's             program for environmental
sustainability. We wish to reaffirm our expectations regarding the concession of credits in
the total amount of up to US$ 1.2 billion, of which US$ 500 million are to be considered
under the envelope for the support program "Country Assistance Strategy" (CAS) for the
fiscal year 2003/2004.
        With the certainty that the request submitted by the Brazilian Government will
receive your closest attention, we trust the World Bank will undertake all required
administrative measures.


        Sincerely yours,


MARINA SILVA                                          ANTONIO PALOCCIFILHO
Minister of Environment                               Minister of Finance




        Agreed:


        Minister of Mines and Energy
        Minister of National Integration
        Ministerof Tourism
        Minister of Agrarian Development
        Minister of Cities




                                          115


e,

   Y




Y



3
m

a

,^

      C
          n




.r
 E
cC
4
<EL

 E
f
c



-




6c
 6

2!
2


-




..
 c
..6
 cI




-
..i
4c
c




 aC
i
-


'0
9   ,,.



.-
h
v

              m
              v)

.-C           2
g             M
4            3C
.-0E
C            -5
              0
              Y




a
%e           1t!
              0




Y
m
.-220         0
              C
              .e


Y
m            .i
2            9
              VI

         20
         u
         5
         5
         e,

         .-CM
         -a
         8
         9
         v)
         M
         E      .-
                B
         .-m
         -58
         0      Y

         Y
         *      8
                5e,

                L
                0
                 B
         m      Y
         L

         Y

          0     52
                .e
                3

         8 33 s*4

-a
C


C
n
B0
i


Bd
C

8
P
n
E
5
5A

         3m
         3




     8
     8




k


M
M
r3


n
2,




     e 0
      .-*m
       C


      u
       Y)

      82
      0"

    B
    L

a
B   8
u    2
    'El
    'gE
    s

    em
     Y
     8

     .-
     Ee
     6Q
     d
     E
     9
     se,
     rr
      o l


      3




5
e,

P
L

fa,    5
       a,

       P
       !-




8
VI
w.
0
P
3b
U


S
E
x
.-C
Y
!E
0


u
5

ce,u
 - 8

z
s        'ho
          e
.-C0
Y.-C0
Y



v




5e,
*0
 C
,e
 0
Ym
Y8
cg
L




                       h



                rr     -aM

                .-C0m
                Y
                *
                C
                e,



                .3
                83
                E
                6,


                8
                L


                                       ANNEX IV
                                      PROTECTED  AREAS


       A) Evolution of ProtectedAreas inBrazil
I Type of Protected Area           I  untilJuly/2000    1 July/2000-2003   I PercentIncrease
I
I Biological
  NationalPark                     I        11.617.093 I         5.215.879 I            44.9I
            Reserve                          3,465,457              54,507               1.6
  EcologicalReserve                                 111                  0               0.0
  EcologicalStation                          2,758,7 10            802,27 1             29.1
  Wildlife Reserve                                    0            128,521
  Environmental Protection Area              6.3 14.516            987,567              15.6
 Area of relevant ecological
  interest                                      43,368                   0               0.0
  Extractive Reserve                         3,205,625           1,837,246              57.3
  NationalForest                            15,499,297           2.345.21 1             15.1
I                                  I                    I                  I                I




                                           143

B) Comparisonof ProtectedAreas inBrazil,Canada, Germany,Mexico andthe
UnitedStates

                         Categories       Definition(IUCN)
                        i    Ia           Strict nature reserve
                             Ib             Wilderness area
                             I1              National Parks

                        I   I V    1Habitathecies managementarea I
                             V        Protected landscape/seascape
                                    Managed mainly for the sustainable
                            VI         use of naturalecosystems




   n
   C 160,000.00
    m
   8   140,000.00
   0 120,000.00
   r
   U   100,000.00                                                              .Categories VI and Other
       80,000.00
   a
   'c1 60,000.00
   8   40,000.00
       20,000.00
   IC,
    g2      0.00
   n                  Brazil     Canada    Germany       Mexico   UnitedStates




                  Percentageof ProtectedAreas as Relatedto the Total Country Area                      I

     80%

     60%

     40%

     20%

      0%                                                                                               I
               Brazil       Canada     Germany       Mexico    UnitedStates




                                          144

                                         ANNEX V
        RECENT TRENDS THE DEFORESTATION
                             IN                          OF THE BRAZILIANAMAZON44


According to official estimates releasedby the Brazilian Institute of Space Research
(INPE), deforestationrates inthe Amazon have increased to 23,750 square kilometers for
the August 2002 - August 2003 period (Figure 1).Most of it has occurred inthe
agricultural frontier area called the "deforestation belt" inthe states of Par& Mato Grosso
and RondGnia. The rate i s slightly higherthan that of the previous period (2001-2002),
when deforestationreached 23,260 square kilometers, and substantially higher than inthe
precedingsix years and than the average for the period 1988-2003.

The 2002-2003 figures represent an estimate extrapolated from a sample of 75 satellite
scenes that had shown 80 percent of Amazon deforestation inpast years (Figure 2). A
final figure will be released when the set of 215 satellite scenes covering the entire
Brazilian Amazon has been processed.




 I                                                   Year                                                I

  Figure 1:Average deforestation rates inthe Amazon (kmVyear) from 1988 to 2003
(source INPE: http://www.obt.inpe.br/prodes/prodes 1988 2003.htmon April 23rd 2004)


INPE's methodology of image interpretationrecords only new deforestation, Le., it does
not take into account the initial stages of forest regeneration on previously cut and
abandoned forest plots. Abandonment i s common inthe Amazon, and secondary forests

44 Prepared by Flavio Chaves, Adriana Moreira, Luiz Gabriel Azevedo, Gar0 Batmanian (Brasilia Office)
   and Christoph Diewald (consultant).



                                               145

may have grown in several areas since deforestation measurement started, increasingthe
total amount o f forest cover. On the other hand, the methodology does not differentiate
"selectively" logged forested areas from pristine forests.




                 70"W                       BOW                      50'W



Figure 2: Satellite scenes used to estimate deforestation. Darker scenes represent the
most critical areas.

               POSSIBLE EXPLANATIONSFORTHE2002/2003 INCREASE

There are several likely explanations for the increase indeforestation rates during the
2001 - 2003 period. They are not mutually exclusive: different driving forces may
interact at different locations and at different times. Probable explanations for the
increase indeforestation are discussed below.

Land Conversion for Cattle Ranching and Cash Crops

Pastures represent the largest part of production landscapes inthe Amazon and account
for about 75 percent of the deforested area. Three Amazonian states (Mato Grosso, Par%
and RondBnia- the same states accounting for the bulk of deforestation) accounted for
more than ?Aof the Brazilian cattle herd in 2002 (up from `/8 in 1990) and for 2/3 of the
growth of the Brazilian herdfrom 1995 through 2002. Several factors may have
contributed to the increase inthe Amazonian cattle ranching particularly since 2001:



                                             146

         highrates of return, associated with increasinglymodernproduction methods in
         areas of the consolidated "old frontier" and with highproductivity compared with
         other leading regions of Brazil.
         export opportunities linked to a sharply increasing exchange rate in2001 and
         2002 and an increasing control of hoof-and-mouth disease. Brazilian beef exports
         increased sharply beginning in 2001. Although Amazonian beef was not directly
         exported, it likely substituted for exportable supplies inthe domestic market.
         higher GDP growth rates from 2000 through 2002.
         expectations of lower transport costs due to government plans of road paving
         (especially of highways BR-163 and BR-158).

These factors seem to have pushed cattle ranching and deforestation closer to and into
major transportation corridors (Figure 3) crossing the Amazon, and are likely to continue
doing so.

About 165,000 square kilometers of cleared forest (roughly 25 percent of all
deforestation recordedinthe region) has been abandoned. Whereas, about 60 percent o f
the pasture area is, at least to some extent, degraded. Moreover, According to estimates
of the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA),the expansion of cattle
ranching may cause the clearing of an additional 900,000 square kilometers over the next
20 years in order to supply pasture-fed meat to Asian and European markets.

There i s much debate about the expansion of soy bean cultivation as a driving force
behind deforestation inthe Amazon. Soybean production has shown phenomenal growth
inBrazil, especially inthe Cerrado (savanna) regions. Although there is currently not
enough evidence to corroborate or refute soybean's driving role, soy bean expansion i s
still relatively insignificant in the Amazon forest region as such. It i s a much more
conspicuous phenomenon inthe Cerrado biome, where it may be displacing ranching
northwards and into the forest.

Weak LandTenure

Land tenure inthe Amazon i s extremely uncertain, as in any typical frontier region. In
many cases, multiple claims on land may exist, and public land i s not easily distinguished
from private land. Land title registration i s inthe hands of private agents (cartdrios), end
upregisteringillegal titles. Federal and state governments have no effective land
database and registration system that would allow such distinction and control of public
land under their jurisdiction. The government estimates that about 45 percent of the
Amazon are public land, outside protected areas and indigenous reserves. Hence,
deforestation has often occurred to justify property claims on public lands in a fraudulent
way (grilagem).

The Federal Government has recently contracted an IDB loan to implement the National
Rural Land Cadastre (CadastroNacional de Zmdveis Rurais -CNZR). The project i s to
implement a geo-referenced land database that would allow (i)      to distinguishbetween




                                             147

public versus private land; (ii)strengthening of land markets; and (iii) use effective
                                                                        to
land and environmental management tools.

Electoral Period

Increases in deforestation, along with a general weakening of environmental law
enforcement, are not uncommon during electoral periods. Federal and state elections
were held in 2002. More land clearing may occur at these times inthe expectation that
claims on cleared land may be regularized after the elections. Moreover, when tougher
controls on deforestation are expected from a new administration, land i s cleared as a
means to establish afait accompli not easily to be reversed by the new government.

Fiscal Constraints

Fiscal constraints faced by federal and state governments, often, reduce the resources
available for law enforcement and control. Deforestation i s likely to increase as the
probability o f getting caught by law enforcement agents decreases.




                     Figure3: Deforestation 2002/2003 (dark spots).




                                           148

The foregoing explanations are preliminary and have yet to be analyzed carefully.
Further analytical work i s needed to assist the Brazilian government and society to
engage ina productive policy dialogue to foster the sustainable use of the Amazon.


                       THE BRAZILIAN GOVERNMENT'SRESPONSE

After the announcement of the unexpectedly highdeforestation rate for 2001/2002, the
Brazilian Government has expressed concern and taken action to address the problem.
For first time, a government clearly recognizes that the deforestation issue falls beyond
the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment alone and should be dealt in a integrate
mode with other sectors. As a result, an Inter-ministerial Working Group was created in
2003, formed by the President's Office (Cam Civil)which leads the WG, Ministries of
Environment, Agrarian Development (landreform), Agriculture, National Integration
(regional development), Justice, Defense, Development, Industry and Commerce,
Science and Technology, Transport, Miningand Energy, and Labor, to prepare an action
plan to discourage deforestation. The Group prepared an Action Plan, launched inMarch
20042.

The action plan includes strategic directives for conservation and sustainable
development inthe Amazon region and emphasizes the following principles and lines of
action:

    0    land tenure regularization and "zoning" inthe municipalities within the
         deforestation belt;

    0   increased and better use of already deforested areas;

    0    sustainable use of the standing forest as a means of conservation and income and
        employment generation, including promotion of logging under forest
        management;

    0    strengthening of monitoring, enforcement and licensing, and use o f innovative
        instruments to this end, including better monitoring of the efficiency and efficacy
         of such instruments;

    0    strategic analysis of large infrastructure projects, including analysis o f
        alternatives, regional'impacts, and ex-ante planning of preventive and mitigating
        measures;

    0   better cooperation among ministries and federal agencies

    0    a decentralized, more partner-like way o f cooperation between the three levels of
         government;


 An excellent and quite detailed overview of deforestation inthe Amazon and its possible causes
     (including inconsistent legislation and government policies) i s in the recent document"Action Plan
     for Preventionand Control of Deforestation inthe Legal Amazon", by the Federal Government's
     Permanent Inter-ministerial Working Group on that subject. The report i s available (in Portuguese),
     at httr,://www.oresidencia.rrov.br/casacivil/desmat.udf.



                                                   149

    0   promotion of active participation of the different interest groups and sectors
        involved inthe use, conservation and protectionof Amazonian natural resources;

    0   appreciation of positive experiences ("lessons learned") and their incorporation
        ("mainstreaming") into government policies;

    0   the creation of a special territorial management zone inthe area of influence of
        the BR-163 highway, a current hotspot of deforestation and land-grabbing.

Conclusion

The issue of deforestation in an area of more than 4 million square kilometers (larger than
Europe) i s not an easy one to tackle for any government, particularly in a country
struggling with the challenges of sustainable growth, reductionof poverty and scarce
fiscal resources for investment inmonitoring, enforcement and promotion o f alternative,
sustainable uses of forest ecosystems of worldwide interest. It appears that government i s
finally trying "to get ahead of the frontier", to be more present in a vast region of
immense natural resources and conflicting interests, and to take a lead.

Also, if action on the issue has not been successful so far, at least there is an
unprecedented national effort inmeasuring and pinpointing deforestation over such
immense area. INPEhas now made available all data on deforestation on the Internet.

As demonstratedby the Action Plan, Government is dealing with the issue of
deforestation transparently and openly. Its discussion i s being closely followedby civil
society and the donor community. The effort to involve other sectors o f government, to
make the deforestation issue a "transversal", cross-cutting issue i s also unprecedented in
the history of public policy o f Brazil.




                                              150

                                        ANNEX VI
            ENVIRONMENTAL       RESPONSIBILITIESBY LEVEL GOVERNMENT OF




Target Setting  -National air quality standards     - Standards for state            - Standards for
                -Water quality classification-      ecosystems at least as           municipality ecosystems
                National Ecological- Economic       stringent as national            at least as stringent as
                Zoning(ZEE)                         -Excludes noise and domestic     state standards
                                                    solid waste                      -Municipal zoning
                                                    -State ZEE                       -Noise standards
Framework/      -Criteria for licensing,            -Establishing fines and          -Domestic solid waste
Guidelines       including EIAs                     sanctions                        procedureslpractices
                -Criteria and methods for           -Creating and establishing       -Noise pollution criteria
                 sampling and analyzing air,        guidelines for application of    and procedures for
                 water, soils                       environmental management         monitoring and
                -Management of water basins         instruments (complementary       enforcing
                -Production and handling of         to licensing)
                 genetically modified organisms     -Parameters for APP at least
                 (GMOs)                             as stringent as national
                -Classification and procedures
                 for handling hazardous
                 materials
                -Legislation for nuclear energy
                 and waters
                -Parameters for clear-cutting
                 vegetation on private properties
                -Parameters for Permanent
                 ProtectionAreas (APP)
                -Classification of fauna and flora
                 species that can be managed or
                 fully protected
                -All those established by
                 International treaties ratified by
                 Brazil (Le. CITES, RAMSAR,
                 Rotterdam, Montreal,
                 Cartagena, Stockholm)
Monitoring1     -Criteria for licensing             -Procedures for licensing         -Permits for location of
Enforcement     -Federal ecosystems                 -Monitor (air, water, soils) in polluting activities
                -International issues               state ecosystems                  -Monitor and apply
                -Interstate ecosystems              -Inspect and apply sanctions1     sanctiodfines on
                -Interstate rivers                  fines to all polluting activities sources of noise
                -Resolving interstate               not under federal control         pollution
                disputes                            (industries, cars, etc.)          -Collect and dispose of
                -Nuclear usage                      -Gazetting state protected        domestic solid waste
                -Policies on forests, biodiversity  areas                             -Gazetting municipal
                 and national protected areas                                         protected areas
                -Gazetting national protected




                                               151


                                      ANNEX VI1
                         ENVIRONMENTAL       LICENSINGBRAZIL
                                                        IN




Background

Brazil i s probably the developing country with the oldest and most consolidated
environmental licensing system. It was launched inthe early 70s, when industrial growth
and the increase in the number of cars inRio de Janeiro and S2o Paulo began to generate
significant urban pollution problems inboth metropolitanregions. Inorder to deal with
these problems, the two state environmental agencies, Feema and Cetesb, equipped and
trained personnel, anticipating actions by the federal government, which then began to
focus on natural resources issues such as biodiversity, soils, forests, water and coastal
zone management.

Brazil occupies a distinct position among developing countries, with respect to
environmental licensing. Inaddition to having qualified personnel, its environmental
licensing procedures, including the more complex environmental impact assessments, are
standard and widely disseminated for economic activities seeking government approval.
The system includes all states inBrazil and i s now being decentralized, so that municipal
governments can begin to play an important role inenvironmental licensing inthose
cases stipulatedby law.

Main problems

The system i s well consolidatedand widely disseminated but it i s not being modernized
and updated according to the real needs and challenges of economic growth. While
substantial progress has been made towards greater social participation and transparency,
the system has not become sufficiently flexible andcapable o f addressing the specific
needs and challenges of individual economic sectors.

There i s a growing demand from society to eliminate the "constraints" producedby
environmental licensing, particularly those related to territorial ventures, energy,
transportation, sanitation infrastructure, etc.

The main issues currently observed are:


    0    Lack of environmental vision insector planning

    Instead of promoting and encouraging the improvement o f environmental quality in
sector planning (policies, programs andprojects) the current licensing systemhas become
bureaucratic, antagonistic and confrontational. There has also been a growing tendency to
separate productive activities (private and governmental) from the environmental sector.


                                            152

While environmental agencies are ultimately responsible for such a scenario, it i s also
true that many private interests and government economic sectors have played a role in
startingandperpetuating it. Moreover, the overwhelming majority of government sector
policies either completely disregard environmental issues or treat them as externalities to
be dealt with ex post and outside the planning process. This not only makes the solution
of environmental problems far more costly, it also promotes confrontation and litigation,
as opposed to a more constructive approach based on dialogue, incorporating
environmental issues early on inboth sector policies and when designing specific
projects. A classic example of this i s the preparation of environmental impact
assessments, which have become a very costly compendia of information. Alternative
projects, which may be environmentally more sustainable and often also economically
more profitable, are rarely considered.


    0   Reversion of the role of environmental agencies

The fact that environmental issues are not incorporated upstreaminproject design, and
that projects are conceived without the participation of environmental agencies, has
forced these agencies, especially IBAMA, to play the unfortunate role o f policeman for
environmental regulations and norms. There i s little incentive to cooperate and seek
alternatives. Also, since sector-based policies are often unclear about the environment,
most projects tend to leave environmental issues for consideration only at the very last
stage o f preparation, when an environmental license i s sought.

One particularly thorny consequence i s that environmental agencies, particularly
IBAMA, are faced with the needto discuss andnegotiate procedures andpolicies with
other sector agencies. This i s ultimately the responsibility of the Ministry of
Environment, not of the implementing agency.


    0   Expansion of themes inthe licensingprocess

Another problem i s the precise number o f issues to be licensedb y the environmental
authority, particularly inthe case of large infrastructure projects.

Given the institutional vacuum, there i s no way to address all of these questions in an
integratedmanner. The licensing system has become the outlet for conflicts generated by
these projects, particularly those that are socially related- such as the effects on
indigenous communities, population resettlement and landcompensation, cultural and
archeological heritage, etc.


For example, (i)  the construction of large dams for energy generation lead to a series o f
social conflicts, such as the issue of population resettlement and land compensation; (ii)
the indirect impacts of roadbuildinginfrontier areas (particularly inthe Amazon region)
are far more important than the direct impacts from road construction per se. But while
many o f these indirect impacts may be of an environmental nature, such as increased
deforestation, many are more diffused and not necessarily under IBAMA's domain, such


                                            153

as effects on indigenous communities, population growth, and the manifold consequences
of increased economic activity.

A project designed without a consistent conflict analysis -not only environmental-is
therefore inclined to produce a long licensingprocess that i s prone to judicial claims.



    0    Competenciesnotclearly defined

Another one of the system's major bottlenecks i s the lack of coordination between the
different levels of government. The Article 23 of the Federal Constitution, establishes
the complementary roles of federal, state and municipal governments in environmental
management, but it has not yet been regularized, so that the work of the three tiers o f
government often overlaps. This complicates the business environment for entrepreneurs,
and may even leave institutional gaps (lack of responsibility) when it comes to
overseeing environmental problems. Box 1below illustrates the (costly) implications o f
the lack of mainstreaming environmental issues into sectoral policies, coupled with the
lack of integration between environmental agencies at different levels of government, in
the case of the environmental licensing o f the hydropower plant Itumirim, in the state o f
GoiBs.

                   EnvironmentalLicensingof the ItumirimHydropowerPlant

 The National Electric Energy Agency - ANEEL - offered the hydroelectric power plant of Itumirimfor bidding
 based on its 50 MW potential in 1999. The Companhia Energe'tica do Itumirim won the bid, offering a price
 seven times higher than the minimumprice. The plant i s expected to be built on the Corrente River. This river i s
 formed by the junction of the Formoso and Jacuba Rivers, which have some of their springs inside a National
 Park (Parque Nacional das Emas). The area of the dam will flood a small part of the park, and most of the area
 of an important, relatively intact, ecological corridor, which is home to many endangered animal species, such as
 the cewo dopantanal, oqa-pintada, lobo-guar6 and tamandud- bandeira.

 Because the Corrente River i s a state river, the company submitted its environmental license to the state
 environmental agency. However, because of the possibility of affecting a National Park as well as endangered
 animal species, the Ministe'rio Pliblico together with IBAMA took legal action against the license to be issued by
 the state agency. The action was approved and environmental licensing was transferred to the federal agency,
 IBAMA, which considered the enterprise unfeasible in2001 due to the aforementioned impacts.

 The entrepreneur requested the licensing of a new plant which would lower the dam's level from 680 to 678
 meters, with an operational level of 675 meters. InFebruary o f 2002, IBAMA issued a final decision refusing the
 construction of the plant even under the new proposed conditions.



The case illustrates a problem that i s unfortunately not uncomrnon. The licensing system
was originally conceived for medium-sized industrial activities, where even today it
operates relatively well, under the leadership of state environmental agencies. Large
infrastructureprojects, however, are still subject to a great deal of uncertainty, with
confrontation and delays by environmental authorities, imposing significant direct costs




                                                   154

on entrepreneurs and broader indirect costs on society45.There are currently around 14
large-scale hydroelectric ventures that have been caught inthe environmental licensing
process for over two years.


     0    Lack of regulation andenforcementof environmental norms

Despite the modernity and permanent updating of the environmental legislation, in
particular by CONAMA, subsequent actions relatedto the regulation of various items
have not been adopted by environmental agencies inthe licensing processes. There i s a
considerable gap between the measures adopted for expediting and simplifying the
procedures and their effective implementation.

An example of this is the Article 12of CONAMA's Resolution 237 of 1997. It
establishes the possibility of prompt and simplified procedures for small-scale ventures
that implement voluntary programs of environmental management, and for joint licensing
of neighboring ventures and similar undertakings. IBAMA and the majority of
environmental state agencies have not defined conditions for implementing this article in
their procedures. There are numerous cases of projects that fall within situations covered
by the article and that continue to follow the same procedures for ventures of highand
medium potential impact.


     0    Participation of the Public Prosecutors office and the Courts of Accounts

The Public Prosecutors Offices, at both state and federal levels, have become a
fundamental actor in the environmental licensing processes.                           The aforementioned
deficiencies and difficulties are permanently analyzed by the Public Prosecutors Office,
which seeks to correct them through judicial actions.


Almost all of the licensing processes for hydroelectric plants are under judicial actions
initiated by the Public Prosecutors Office (Ministe`rio Pciblico), which generally
examines: (i)    the level of competence (federal, state or municipal) to conduct the process;
(ii) technicalmeritoftheprojectandtheenvironmentalstudies;(iii) valueofthe
     the                                                                                     the
environmental licenses issued; and (iv) the publicity and society's participation in this
process.




45 Upon historical reflection, it can be said that the fact that environmental issues are left "till the end" of
the process, and that the licensing system works better for small and medium-scale enterprises, may be a
political heritage of the military governments. Inthose days, many large infrastructure projects were
exempt from environmental licensing (or any form of public consultation). This perhaps largely explains
the implementation of very controversial projects such as the flooding of the majestic "Sete Quedus", and
the construction of Nuclear Power Plants in Angra dos Reis. Also, even today, many oil refineries are not
fully licensed. The current environmental system provides ample mechanisms for public participation and
consultation on large infrastructure projects, often serving as the only instance of public debate for all sorts
of social issues.




                                                     155

On the other hand, these actions, combined with possible penalties as stipulated in the
Law o f Environmental Crimes, have induced the licensing agents to apply extreme
caution when implementing environmental regulations and norms, thereby contributing to
the slowness inanalyzing processes.

However, the courts of accounts, at federal and state levels, have operated increasingly
with tendering processes for projects and works, thus monitoring their adequacy for
environmental licensing procedures. There are numerous works with federal resources
that the Federal Court of Accounts (TCU) has been ruling as irregular for not complying
with environmental legislation, namely licensing. The TCU has, therefore, issued a
collective sentence inwhich it interprets the interrelation of these procedures.


            0   Shortcomings of environmental agencies
Environmental agencies at both federal and state levels and, more recently, at the
municipal level, show some deficiencies in the environmental licensing area. This i s
reflected in both their institutional and technical capacity, as well as in their operational
and physical infrastructure.

Deficiencies have been found in the technical and institutional capacity, in the
prioritizing o f licensing actions, and in the technical staff, either with regard to the
quantity of specialized professionals or their qualifications for confronting the diversity
of situations that arise. IBAMA, for instance, had only seven permanent technical staff in
the licensing area in 2002, and around 68 temporary technical staff hired through
international organizations (UNDP and UNESCO), The same situation i s observed with
regard to infrastructure and logistics resources (physical, operative, informative, etc.) for
the implementation of the licensingprocess.

The limitations are also reflected in the technical and administrative instruments
necessary to ensure the greatest efficiency of the process. There i s almost a complete
lack of manuals for the administrative procedures of the licensing process, and for
technical evaluations according to project type.
Another issue i s related to the transparency and public disclosure of environmental
licensing processes. It i s currently not possible to track ongoing licensing and processes
of general public interest.


Recent Achievements

Environmental authorities inBrazil are largely aware o f the fundamental issues of the
environmental management system, particularly the licensing system. The National
Environmental Council, CONAMA, has long established a technical committee to review
the licensing system, although the main focus has been to meet the specific demands of
Si50 Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and other states with major pollution problems.

The current federal administration i s addressing some of the major problems by
establishing or revitalizing a dialogue with the economic sector, in an attempt to



                                           156

mainstream environmental issues into sectoral policies. Since infrastructure projects and
programs are the most important, the Ministry of Environment has been focusing on the
energy and transport sectors, letting IBAMA deal with the more operational level with its
(regulatory) counterparts such as the National Petroleum Agency (ANP), National
Electric Energy Agency (ANEEL), National Water Agency (ANA) and National
Transport Infrastructure Department (DNIT).

Efforts have also been made to establish clearer guidelines and norms for regulating
specific activities, as well as for mainstreamingenvironmental issues and incorporating
them upstreaminproject design. The first tendering experience that successfully
incorporated environmental issues inits design took place recently inoil and gas
prospecting areas inAbrolhos.

     TenderinginAbrolhos: UpstreamConsiderationsof EnvironmentalImpacts

 InMarch of 2003, the National PetroleumAgency, ANP, launched atendering process for the exploration
 of areas with oil and gas potential. The areas were selected based exclusively on their production
 potential. The terrestrial and marine blocs were located in ten different states covering a total area of
 195,000 square kilometers.

 InMay of 2003, agroup of environmentalNGOshanded areport to the Ministries of Environment,
 Energy and Mines and to ANP, indicating that 243 of the blocs offered would have a significant impact on
 the Marine Park of Abrolhos, seriously threatening the existing coral reefs, algae, mangroves, beaches and
 marshes. The region i s the largest nesting area of the jubarte whale in the South Atlantic, in addition to
 being home to large colonies of marine birds,turtles and corals.

 IBAMA and ANP acted quickly to evaluate the issue. After an expeditious review, IBAMA
 recommended to ANP that 162 blocs originally contemplated for tendering be excluded, based on the
 potential environmental impacts. ANP fully endorsed the recommendationand excluded those blocs from
 the process before the tendering documents were published. Inaddition to ensuring the integrity o f the
 area, this prevented entrepreneurs from acquiring blocs with minimal chances of obtaining future
 environmental licenses. Most of the other areas were offered and bought for exploration.




There have been efforts within the national environmental system to regulate attributions
by the three tiers of government and to integrate their work. Specific efforts are being
made to regulate Article 23 of the Federal Constitution, which assigns congruent
responsibility for environmental protection to federal, state and municipal governments.


A new law was enacted in2003 regarding access to environment-relatedinformation and
the disclosure of environmental licensing processes to the public. The Federal
Government also launchedthe first phase of a hiringprocess for new technical staff to
work inthe licensingprocess at IBAMA.




                                                   157

  2003         MMA            1,504         878       0.1%    42%
              Total Gov.    1,099,968      876,498            20%

  2004         MMA            1,523                   0.1%
              Total Gov.    1,472,900
Source: SIAFI and MMA




                                      158


                                    ANNEX IX
            PROGRAMS OF THE MINISTRYENVIRONMENT 2004-2007
                                           OF                 FOR


The following analysis focuses on the environment as directly defined inthe PPA, i.e. the
MMA. The MMAhas defined25 programs. The proposed EnvPRLincludes actions and
measures related to 18 of the MMA's major programs. All 18 programs have planned
specific policy reforms over the next years, which are necessary to successfully
implement forestry and water resource policies and the legislation to protect the Atlantic
Forest (See Chapter 3). Furthermore, most of the areas have important cross-ministerial
implications, such as the Revitalization of the S5o Francisco Basin and the Ecological-
Economical Zoning.


                          EnvironmentalPolicy Management
                        2004-2007 M M A budgetUS$57,900,470
The objectives are to first coordinate the planning and negotiation of sectoral policies
with other government sectors and Congress, then to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of programs under the MMA's supervision (presented below).
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                                  SustainableAmazon
                        2004-2007M M A budgetUS$55,210,294
The objective i s to promote the development of the Amazon through economic
development based on the sustainable use of its natural resources. The main focus i s on:
i)insuringactiveparticipationinthedesignandimplementationofthePAS(Sustainable
Amazon Program), which i s a regional development plan that includes all nine state
governments of the region and 14 different ministries; and ii)implementing the Pilot
Program to Conserve the Brazilian RainForest.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                               ProtectedAreas of Brazil
                        2004-2007M M A budgetUS$46,004,067
The objective i s to expand and consolidate a network o f Protected Areas in 10 percent of
each biome that effectively protect the biodiversity of the country. The program intends
to support the development of the buffer zones around the protected areas while
integrating the Protected Areas (PA) into the local economy as a means to achieve
sustainable development. The ARPA i s an integral part of the program's strategy.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).




                                         159

                                          Probacias
                         2004-2007 M M A budget US$41,441,379
The objective i s to implement an integrated network of Water Basin Committees. The
purpose o f this program i s to establish a National Information System, to assist in
developing a system to charge for water use and maintain a National System for the
prevention o f major negative hydrological events.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                                     National Forestry
                         2004-2007M M A budget US$37,041,137
The objectives are to promote the sustainable use of forest resources and the sustainable
expansion o f plantations. The purpose of this program i s to organize forest management
on public lands by both communities and companies. It will also seek to develop the
entire productive cycle of forest products to attribute more value to the resources, both
for timber and non-timber forest products. The program should also increase the number
of plantations of small and medium-scale farmers in already deforested areas, in order to
provide a sustainable source for the industry.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


               Conservation, Sustainable Use and Recovery of Biodiversity
                         2004-2007M M A budget US$31,439,874
The objective i s to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the priorities of the
National Biodiversity Policy in accordance with the Convention of Biological Diversity.
The program uses several approaches. First, it intends to develop action plans for the
recovery of severely endangered species; second, it will document the different uses of
native biodiversity in order to develop plans for its sustainable use; third, it will develop
the basic population studies that will serve as input for the establishment of new
Protected Areas (to be created inthe separate program above).
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                            Climate Change and Environment
                         2004-2007M M A budget US$18,539,743
One objective i s to control carbon emissions from urban and industrial sources. A second
objective i s to provide strategic input to the overall Climate Change Policy o f the Federal
Government according to the Kyoto Protocol.
(Thisprogramis already includedinthe Growth PRL).


              Prevention and Action against Deforestation and Forest Fires
                         2004-2007 M M A budget US$18,428,518
The objective i s to curb illegal deforestation and forest fires in all Brazilian biomes. It
focuses on strengthening the system of monitoring, command and control. It also intends




                                             160

to launch campaigns to increase awareness about the issue and to disseminate best
practices.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                                    SustainableFisheries
                         2004-1007MMA budgetUS$16,459,030
The objective i s to develop mechanisms and procedures to promote the environmental
sustainability of fisheries. This program will work closely with the Special Secretariat for
Fisheries responsible for increasing the economic use of national fisheries.
(It does not require any major reform to be implemented, as it is directed towards
enforcement).


                                  Traditional Populations
                         2004-2007 M M A budgetUS$14,224,978
The objective i s to design and implement policies that promote the sustainable
development of traditional communities. The emphasis i s on providing technical and
financial assistance to the communities, including support for adding value locally to the
resources used in a sustainable way.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                         Conservation,Use and Quality of Water
                         2004-2007 MMA budgetUS$13,736,042
The objective i s to implement the actions set forth by the National Water Resource
Policy, which are the direct responsibility o f the MMA and ANA.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                               Management of Water Policy
                         2004-2007 M M A budgetUS$13,661,683
The objective i s to ensure the effective use of the technical and institutional instruments
necessary for the proper implementation of the National Water Resource Policy. This will
be done by coordinating planning, influencing sectoral policies, and by monitoring and
evaluating the implementation of programs under the direct supervision of the ANA and
M M N S R H .
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                Preventionand Action on EnvironmentalEmergencies
                         2004-2007M M A budgetUS$13,379,572
The objective i s to develop a national strategy for the prevention of environmental
emergencies (i.e. oil spills, leaking of containment pools etc.) and to ensure a rapid
response. This strategy i s being developed with state and municipal agencies. Its




                                           161

implementation will be decentralized at the different government levels and will involve
different agencies.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                             Livingwithout Contamination
                        2004-2007 M M A budgetUS$9,512,851
The objectives are, first, to decrease the risk of exposure to hazardous chemicals and
waste, and second, to decrease environmental contamination. The approach is to promote
the integrated management of hazardous chemicals through their entire life cycle.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                  EnvironmentalEducationfor SustainableSocieties
                        2004-2007M M A budgetUS$9,062,675
The objective i s to promote and support the Environmental Education process at both
local and national levels. The program develops formal (school system) and non-formal
activities aimed at changing attitudes towards social andenvironmental values.
(It does not require any major reform to be implemented, as it is directed towards
campaigns and actions, not policies).


         Revitalizationof the SI0 FranciscoBasin& other major water basins
                        2004-2007M M A budgetUS$8,665,837

The objective i s to revitalize the four major water basins that are threatened due to
environmental degradation. These four water basins are: S5o Francisco, Paraha do Sul,
Araguaia and Tocantins. They are so essential for the development o f different parts of
the country and are under such threat due to unsustainable land and water use, that it i s
necessary to develop specific action plans to ensure the long-term economic, social and
environmental sustainability of the region. The implementation of these plans will be
done incoordination with other government agencies.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                                    UrbanSolidWaste
                        2004-2007M M A budgetUS$8,081,659
The objectives of this program to be implanted with other agencies are: i)to promote the
recycling and reuse of solid waste, ii)to expand and improve the efficiency of waste
collection and disposal in urban areas, iii)and to promote the social inclusion and
organization of the communities that depend on collecting recyclable material.
(It does not require any major reform to be implemented, as it is directed towards
information campaigns).




                                          162

                        Sustainable Developmentof the Pantanal
                         2004-2007 M M A budget US$7,583,254
The objective i s to promote the sustainable use of the Upper Paraguay water basin. The
focus i s on the economic activities that use or depend on the local natural resources.
(It does not require any major specific reform to be implementedbut it will benefit from
other reforms proposed inEnvPRL).


                             Ecological-EconomicalZoning
                         2004-2007M M A budget US$7,511,254
The objective i s to promote the use of ZEE as a tool to assist in defining the best land for
a regional development plan. The focus i s on improving the technical tool, promoting its
dissemination and ensuring the mechanism for its use by the agencies responsible for
land use and regional planning, mostly inthe Ministry of National Integration.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                                        Proambiente
                         2004-2007M M A budget US$7,194,897
The objective i s to promote the use of productive systems that take into account the
integrated and sustainable use of natural resources, providing environmental benefits to
entire populations.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                                         Ecotourism
                         2004-2007M M A budget US$6,943,077
The objective i s to promote tourism as a sustainable development policy, including
environmental sustainability.     The program works directly on the design and
implementation of a national ecotourism plan focusing on Protected Areas, and supports
the design and implementation of the programs developedby the Ministry of Tourism.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).


                 Conservation and Sustainable Use of Genetic Resources
                         2004-2007M M A budget US$6,768,646
This program has multiple objectives concerning the conservation and use of the native
genetic resources present in all biomes. It aims first at designing and implementing
policies and procedures to register traditional knowledge; second, at ensuring the
sustainable use o f the resources through the entire chain o f production with an emphasis
on ensuring equitable benefits to the local communities; and third, at ensuring the biosafe
use of genetic resources.
(Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).




                                            163

                                         Agenda 21
                         2004-2007M M A BudgetUS$5,822,931
The objective i s to promote the inclusion of the principles and guidelines of the Brazilian
Agenda 21 in policies and procedures at all three levels of government and serve as
reference to private actions of civil society. This will be done through national campaigns
and by meeting with focal groups and stakeholders using a decentralized and
participatory approach.
(It does not require any major specific reform to be implementedbut it will benefit from
other reforms proposed in EnvPRL).


                                 CombatingDesertification
                         2004-2007M M A budgetUS$4,365,698
The objectives are to curb the expansion of the desertification process and to rehabilitate
critical areas that have already been affected. The approach i s to develop mechanisms and
have them adopted by other agencies that are also involved in land use practices and
regional planning.
(Major reforms mustbe implemented to achieve the aforementioned objective).


                       Conservationand Rehabilitationof Biomes
                         2004-2007 M M A budgetUS$2,982,479
The objective i s to promote policies and actions aimed at conservation and sustainable
use at the macro-regional level (biomes). Specific plans will be developed and
implemented for all major biomes. The MMA will work to include them in other sectoral
policies. (Key reforms necessary for this program are included inthe EnvPRL).




                                            164

                                ANNEX X
                     LISTOFBANK'SANALYTICAL WORK


Amazon Sustainable Development and Forest Sector
  Working Paper N022. "Causes of Deforestation of the Brazilian Amazon". Sergio
  Margulis,2003.
  John Redwood III.  2002. "World Bank Approaches to the Brazilian Amazon: The
  BumpyRoadtoward Sustainable Development"- Latin America andCaribbean
  Region Sustainable Development Working Paper Series; N O 13. Barreto, P.
  "Estudos sobre manejo florestal na Amaz6nia Brasileira". Relat6rio TCcnico.
  2002.
  Barreto, P. 2002. "Estudos sobre manejo florestal na AmazGnia Brasileira".
  Relat6rio TCcnico.
  Diewald, C. 2002. "Notas sobre Politicas P6blicas para o Brasil: Opqdes de
  Desenvolvimento e Conservaqgo para as Florestas do Brasil."
  Motta, R. Seroa. Estimativa do custo econ8mico do desmatamento na Amaz6nia.
  Washington, D.C: World Bank, 2002.
  Barros, G. Sant'Ana de Camargo; Zen, S. de; Ichihara, S.; Osaki, M.;Ponchio, L.
  "Economia da pecuhria de corte e o process0 de ocupaqZio da AmazGnia".
  Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2002.
  Barreto, P. "Sustainable forest management inAmazonia: incentives and
  disincentives". Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2002.
  Schneider, R.; Arima, E.; Verissimo, A.; Barreto, P.; Souza Junior, C. "AmazGnia
  sustenthvel: limitantes e oportunidades para o desenvolvimento rural". Brasflia,
  Banco Mundial; BelCm, IMAZON, 2000. (SCrie Parcerias; Nr. 1).
  Chomitz, Kenneth and Timothy Thomas. 2001. "Geographic Patterns of Land Use
  and Land Intensity inthe Brazilian Amazon," Policy Research Working Paper
  2687.
  Lele, Uma; Viana, Virgilio; Verissimo, Adalberto; Vosti, Stephen; Perkins, Karin;
  Husain, Syed Arif. 2000. Evaluation country case study series: "Brazil - Forests in
  the balance: challenges o f conservation with development".
  Lutz, Ernst [Editor]; Binswanger, Hans; Hazell, Peter; McCalla, Alexander. 1998.
  "Agriculture and the environment - perspectives on sustainable rural
  development".
  Mahar,D.; Ducrot, C. "Land-use zoning ontropical frontiers: emerginglessons
  from the Brazilian Amazon". Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 1998.
  Schneider, R. 1995. "Government andthe Economy on the Amazon Frontier".
  World Bank Environment Paper Number 11, Washington, D.C.



                                      165

Water Resourcesand Environment
  Abel Mejia, Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo, MartinP. Gambrill, Alexandre M.Baltar,
  Thelma Triche. 2003 -Working Paper: SCrie Agua Brasil - Agua, Redusilo de
  Pobrezae Desenvolvimento Sustentiivel. Vol. 1(Portuguese).
  Lobato da Costa, Francisco JosC. 2003. "EstratCgias de gerenciamento dos
  recursos hidricos no Brasil: fireas de cooperasilo com o Banco Mundial". Vol. 1
  (Portuguese).
  Baltar, Alexandre; Azevedo, Luiz Gabriel T.; RCgo, Manuel; L a Laina Porto,
  Rubem. 2003. Working Paper: SCrie Agua Brasil. Vol. 2. Sistemas de suporte a
  decisilo para a outorga de direitos de us0de iigua no Brasil.
  Foster, Stephen; Hirata, Ricardo; Gomes, Daniel; D ' Elia, MBnica; Paris, Marta
  2002. "Groundwater quality protection : a guide for water utilities, municipal
  authorities, and environment agencies"
  Margulis,Sergio; Hughes, Gordon; Gambrill, Martin; Azevedo, Luiz Gabriel T.
  2002. "Brazil :managing water quality - mainstreamingthe environment inthe
  water sector".
  Ariel Dinar, Editor. 2000. "The political economy of water pricing reforms". Vol.
  1.
  World Bank, "Brazil: Private Participation inthe Water Sector: Case Studies,
  Lessons, and Future Options". ("Brasil: Participa$io  do Setor Privado no Setor
  Agua: Estudos de Caso, Lis6es e OpG6es para o Futuro"). 2000. Report Nr.
  19896-BR.
  Asad, Musa; Gabriel Azevedo, Luiz; Kemper, KarinE.; Simpson, Larry D. ,
  1999. "Management of Water Resources: Bulk water pricing inBrazil" Vol. 1.
  Marino, Manuel; Kemper, KarinE. [editors] 1999. World Bank Technical Paper:
  "Institutional frameworks in successful water markets -Brazil, Spain, and
  Colorado, USA". Vol. 1.
  Saleth, R. Maria; Dinar, Ariel. 1999. Policy Research Working Paper - "Water
  Challenge and institutional response (a cross-country perspective)." Vol. 1.

Sanitation
  Brook, P.J. and S.M Smith, eds. 2001. Contracting for Public Services: Output-
  Based Aid and its Applications (Contrataqilo de ServiCos P6blicos) - Ajuda com
  base nos Resultados e suas Aplicas6es).
  "Brazil: Regulations for Better Water and Sewerage Services" ("Brasil:
  Regulasilo para Melhorar os Servisos de Saneamento), 1999. Report No19568-
  BR.
  Marino, Manuel; Boland, John. 1999. "Directions indevelopment: An integrated
  approach to wastewater treatment: deciding where, when andhow much to
  invest". Vol. 1.


                                      166

Air andWater Pollution


  "Brazil - Managing pollution problems: the brown environmental agenda"-
  Sector Report. World Development Sources 1998. Vol. 2.

e "Brazil - Managing pollution problems : the brown environmental agenda"-
  Sector Report. World Development Sources 1998. Vol. 1.

EconomicInstruments


  Haddad, P.; Rezende, F. "0 us0 de instrumentosecondmicos para o
  desenvolvimento sustenthvel: o ICMS Ecol6gico". Paper for Brazil Ministry of
  the Environment and the World Bank, 2002a.
  Haddad, P.; Rezende, F. "Proposta de medidas tributhrias de estimulo ao us0
  sustenthvel da madeira". Paperfor Brazil Ministry of the Environment andthe
  WorldBank, 2002b.
  Chomitz, K.; Thomas, T.; Brandgo, A. Salazar. "All trees are the same, all trees
  are different: creating markets for habitat conservation when habitats are
  heterogeneous". Policy ResearchWorking Paper. Washington, D.C.:World Bank,
  2003.
  Chomitz, K. "Transferable development rights and forest protection: an
  exploratory analysis". Paper prepared for a workshop on Market-Based
  Instruments for Environmental Protection at HarvardUniversity, Cambridge,
  Massachussetts, 1999.




                                     167



      ae!




       B     B
h
.3
Y
r/i
8
3
>
0
.3
a

     0
     3
     b




3


                                         ANNEX XI1
Press Release No. 04/59                                                International Monetary Fund
March 26,2004                                                          700 19th Street, NW
                                                                       Washington, D.C. 20431USA


IMFEXECUTIVE        BOARD  COMPLETESSIXTH REVIEW OFBRAZIL'SSTAND-BY              ARRANGEMENT

The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) today completed the sixth
review of Brazil's performance under an SDR 27.4 billion (about US$ 40.2 billion) Stand-By
Arrangement (see Press ReleaseNo. 03/217 and Press ReleaseNo. 02/40).

The completion of the sixth review enables the release of a further SDR 911million (about US$
1.34 billion) to Brazil, which brings the total amount available to SDR 6.53 billion (about US$
9.6 billion). The Brazilian authorities, however, have indicated that they do not intend to make
any further drawings on the arrangement.

Following the Executive Board's discussion on Brazil, Anne Krueger, Acting Managing Director
and Chair, made the following statement:

"Brazil's performance under the Stand-By Arrangement remains strong. All performance criteria
and structural benchmarks for the sixth review were met, and a structural benchmark for the next
review was met aheadof schedule.

"The Brazilian economy i s poised for robust economic growth this year. Leading indicators are
showing renewed strength in private consumption and investment, and domestic demand will
likely be the driving force behind growth this year. These promising developments are being
matchedby a favorable performance of Brazilianassets inglobal financial markets.

"The recovery of growth owes much to the sound economic policies pursuedby the government.
The solid fiscal outturn in 2003 and the government's commitment to a strong fiscal stance in
2004 have ensuredthat debt dynamics remain on a steady downward path. The cautious response
of monetary policy to the monthly inflation rates seen over the past three months has been
appropriate and demonstrates the authorities' commitment to ensuring that inflation hits the mid-
point of the target range in 2004.

"The government has made important progress in achieving its social goals. The Zero Hunger
program i s already providing substantial support to many of those in poverty while the creation
of the Bolsa Familia program is expected to lead to better targeting and coordination of social
assistance spending. Ongoing improvements in the coverage and design of these programs
should contribute to lasting improvements in social outcomes.

"Further progress on the government's structural reform agenda would help ensure that the
current cyclical recovery develops into sustainable and long-lasting growth. Implementation of
the government's pension reform, an overhaul of subnational consumption taxes, and passage of
the new bankruptcy law will all support investment and growth. In addition, the government's



                                                171

efforts to deepen financial intermediation, improve the business climate, and reform the labor
market will be indispensable to increasing productivity over the medium term, helping to secure
a durable improvement inliving standards for the Brazilian people," Ms.Krueger said.



IMFEXTERNALRELATIONS DEPARTMENT
Public Affairs: 202-623-7300 - Fax: 202-623-6278
Media Relations: 202-623-7 100- Fax: 202-623-6772




                                              172

                                                    ANNEX XI11
                                            STATEMENTOFLOANS CREDITS  AND

              BRAZIL: FirstProgrammaticReformLoanfor EnvironmentalSustainability

                                                                                                            Difference between
                                                                                                            expectedand actual
                                                        Original Amount inUS$ Millions                         disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                               IBRD       IDA      SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Orig.      Frm. Rev'd

PO60573    2004 BR Tocantins Sustainable RegionalDev   60.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   60.00    0.00         0.00

PO80827    2004 BR Loanfor Sust. and EquitableGrowth  505.05      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00  549.64    0.00         0.00
PO49265    2003 BR-RECIFEURBAN UPGRADING               46.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   45.14    2.14         0.00
                PROJECT
PO70827    2003 BR-2nd APL BAHIA DEV.                  60.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   51.59   15.89         0.00
                EDUCATION PROJECT
PO54119    2003 BAHIA DEVT (HEALTH )                   30.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   28.67    0.17         0.00
PO58503    2003 GEFBR Amazon RegionProt Areas           0.00      0.00     0.00      30.00   0.00   27.50    0.00         0.00
                (ARP.4)
PO80400    2003 BR-AIDS & STD Control 3               100.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   95.00     0.15        0.00

PO78310    2003 BR-CAIXA Water                         75.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   75.00     6.50        0.00

PO76977    2003 BR-Energy Sector TA Project            12.12      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   12.12     1.89        0.00

PO74717    2003 BR-MunicipalPensionReform TAL           5.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    4.70     2.40        0.00
PO57653    2002 BR- FUNDESCOLA IIIA                   160.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  205.51   -22.78        0.00

PO51696    2002 SA0 PAUL0 METRO LINE4 PROJECT         209.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  174.78  111.88         0.00

PO55954    2002 GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY                    65.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   41.68    35.08        0.00
                MANAGEMENT
PO57665    2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION             68.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   53.54    31.59        0.00
                PROJECT
PO74085    2002 BR SergipeRural PovertyReduction       20.80      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   12.01     3.28        0.00

PO73192    2002 BR TA Financial Sector                 14.50      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    9.30     0.98        0.00

PO70552    2002 GEFBR PARANA BIODNERSITY                0.00      0.00     0.00       8.00   0.00    8.47     4.26        0.00
                PROJECT
PO66170    2002 BR-RGN2ND Rural PovertyReduction       22.50      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   16.34     4.04        0.00

PO60221    2002 FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN                 85.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   111.47   41.02        0.00
                TRANSPORT PROJECT
PO43869    2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL              62.80      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   60.23    12.44        0.00
                RESOURC& POV.
PO50880    2001 BR PemambucoRuralPovertyReduction      30.10      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   21.92    13.57         0.00
PO50881    2001 BR PIAUIRURAL POVERTY                  22.50      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    12.86    8.61         0.00
                REDUCTIONPROJECT
PO57649    2001 BR BahiaRuralPovertyReduction          54.35      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   24.44     9.14         0.00
                Project
PO73294    2001 BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt. TAL              8.88      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    6.74     5.78         0.00

PO59566    2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION              90.00      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    79.01  -10.99         0.00

PO50772    2001 BR LAND-BASED POVRTY                  202.10      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   224.31  161.54         0.00
                ALLEVIATION I(SlM)
PO50875    2001 BR CearaRuralPovertyReduction          37.50      0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    21.82   10.57         0.00
                Project
PO35741    2000 BR NATL ENV 2                          15.00      0.00     0.00       0.00    2.32    6.06     8.38        8.20

PO62619    2000 BR INSS REFLIL                          5.05      0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00    0.36    -0.14        0.67

PO39199    2000 BR PROSANEAR 2                         30.30      0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00   28.96   28.96         0.00




                                                              173

PO47309 2000 BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GED              0.00   0.00  0.00  15.00  3.29    11.45   13.25    -0.50
PO50776 2000 BR NEMicrofinanceDevelopment          50.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00    31.69  -18.31     0.00
PO06449 2000 BR CEARA WTR MGT PROGERIRH          136.00    0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00    81.33   43.98     0.00
             S M
PO43874 1999 BR- DISEASESURVEILLANCE     -       100.00    0.00  0.00  0.00   33.00    8.83   41.83     0.00
             VIGISUS
PO58129 1999 BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION(ERL)         15.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00     5.66    5.66     3.80
PO50763 1999 BR- Fundescola 2                    202.00    0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00   17.58    15.08    0.00
PO48869 1999 BR SALVADOR URBANTRANS              150.00    0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00   94.23   94.23     0.00
PO38947 1998 BR- SC. & TECH 3                    155.00    0.00  0.00  0.00   88.80    3.44   92.24     0.00
PO35728 1998 BR BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                51.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00   10.10    10.10   -1.90
PO06559 1998 (BF-R)SP.TSP                          45.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00    3.88    3.88     0.00
PO06474 1998 BR LAND MGT 3 (SA0 PAULO)             55.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00   49.35   47.65    10.26
PO38895 1998 BR FED.WTR MGT                      198.00    0.00  0.00  0.00   40.00   59.15   99.15    99.15
PO43421 1998 BR RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.                186.00    0.00  0.00  0.00   17.17 113.50   130.67     0.00
PO57910 1998 BR PENSIONREFORMLIL                    5.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00    2.04    2.04     0.25
P043420 1998 BR WATER S.MOD.2                    150.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  125.00   20.64  145.61     1.59
PO42565 1998 BR PARAIBA R.POVERTY                  60.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00   17.42    17.42    0.00
PO43873 1997 BR AG TECH DEV.                       60.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00   17.98    17.98   17.98
PO06562 1997 BAHIA MUN.DV                        100.00    0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00    8.98     8.98    8.98
PO06532 1997 FEDHWY DECENTR                      300.00    0.00  0.00  0.00   30.00   84.85  114.85    95.17
PO43868 1997 BR RGS LANDMGTIPOVERTY              100.00    0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00   22.65    22.65   22.65
PO34578 1997 BR RGS Highway MGT                    70.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00   44.55    44.55   44.55
PO37828 1996 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                    175.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   53.16    53.16   53.16
PO06210 1996 GEF BR-NATL BIODIVERSITY               0.00   0.00  0.00  10.00   0.00    1.91     2.73    0.19
PO06564 1995 BEL0HM.TSP                            99.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    7.76     7.76    0.00
PO38882 1995 BR RECIFE M.TSP                     102.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    5.79     5.79

                                          Total: 4,660.55  0.00  0.00  63.00 339.58 2,847.09 1,509.28  364.20




                                                         174

                                      ANNEX XIV

                  BRAZILSTATEMENT OFIFC HELD DISBURSED
                                                    AND              PORTFOLIO

                                    InMillions of US Dollars


                                            Committed                        Disbursed
                                          IFC                              IFC

FY Auuroval Comuanv             Loan     Equity   Quasi   Partic. Loan     Equity   Quasi   Partic.

1998        BSC                 6.11       0.00    0.00    3.09     6.03    0.00     0.00    3.09
1993196     BUNGECEVAL          0.00       2.88    0.00    0.00     0.00    2.88     0.00    0.00
1990191     Bahia Sul           0.00       1.99    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.99     0.00    0.00
1996103     Banco Bradesco      6.54       0.00    0.00   39.24     6.54    0.00     0.00   39.24
            Bradesco-Petrofl    7.50       0.00    0.00    0.00     7.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994196     CHAPECO             1.78       0.00    0.00    5.26     1.78    0.00     0.00    5.26
2002        C N Odebrecht       48.15      0.00    20.00  86.85    48.15    0.00    20.00   86.85

1978183     CODEMIN             0.00       0.40     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.40     0.00    0.00
2003        CPFL Energia        0.00       0.00    40.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    40.00    0.00
1992        CRP-Caden           0.00       0.32     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.32     0.00    0.00
1997        Copesul             15.00      0.00     0.00  51.43     15.00   0.00     0.00   51.43
1997100     Coteminas           0.00       0.53     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.53     0.00    0.00
1980192     DENPASA             0.00       0.12     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.12     0.00    0.00
1995        Distel Holding      11.68      0.00     0.00   0.00     11.68   0.00     0.00    0.00

1998        Dixie Toga          0.00      15.00     0.00   0.00     0.00    15.00    0.00    0.00

1997        Duratex             7.81       0.00     0.00  18.43     7.81    0.00     0.00    18.43

1999        Eliane              23.47      0.00    13.00   0.00     23.47   0.00     13.00   0.00
1998        Empesca             5.00       0.00    10.00   0.00      5.00   0.00     10.00   0.00
2001102     Escola              0.00       0.25     0.00   0.00      0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00
2000        Fleury              7.07       0.00     6.00   0.00      7.07    0.00    6.00    0.00

1998        Fosfertil           6.06       0.00     0.00  26.02      6.06    0.00    0.00    26.02

1998        Ras-le              7.33       0.00    10.00   0.00      7.33    0.00    6.70     0.00

1994        GAVEA               2.81       0.00     5.50   0.00      2.81    0.00     5.50    0.00
            GP Cptl Rstrctd     0.00       9.67     0.00   0.00      0.00    9.54     0.00    0.00
2001        GPC                 9.00       0.00     0.00   0.00      9.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997        Guilman-Amorim      22.73      0.00     0.00   38.32    22.73    0.00     0.00   38.32

1998        IcatuEquity         0.00      20.00     0.00    0.00     0.00   12.60     0.00    0.00

1999        Innova SA           15.00      5.00     0.00  40.00     15.00    5.00     0.00   40.00
1980187197  Ipiranga            13.11      0.00    10.52   39.75    13.11    0.00    10.52   39.75

1999        Itaberaba           0.00       5.34     0.00    0.00     0.00    5.34     0.00    0.00

2000102     Itau-BBA            62.63      0.00     0.00    0.00    49.08    0.00     0.00    0.00

1999        JOSAPAR             7.57       0.00     7.00    0.00     2.57    0.00     7.00    0.00
1995        Lojas Americana     6.00       0.00     0.00    0.00     6.00    0.00     0.00    0.00

1992199     MBR                 17.50      0.00     0.00    0.00    17.50    0.00     0.00    0.00

2002        Macae               52.03      0.00    10.00   43.75    52.03    0.00    10.00   43.75
            Macedo Nordeste     0.00       0.00     5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     5.00    0.00

2002        Microinvest         0.00        1.25    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.12     0.00    0.00

2002        Net Servicos        0.00       31.74    0.00    0.00     0.00   31.74     0.00    0.00



                                                175

1994        ParaPigmentos                12.90       0.00      9.00    0.00     12.90     0.00       9.00    0.00
1996        Perdigao                     6.56        0.00      0.00    0.00      6.56     0.00       0.00    0.00
1994/00/02  Portobello                   0.00        1.15      0.00    0.00      0.00     1.15       0.00    0.00
2000        Puras                        3.33        0.00      0.00    0.00      3.33     0.00       0.00    0.00
2003/04     Queiroz Galvao               0.68        0.00      0.00    0.00      0.16     0.00       0.00    0.00
1998        Randon                       4.67        0.00      3.00    0.00      4.67     0.00       3.00    0.00
1997/03     SP Alpargatas                30.00       0.00      0.00    0.00      5.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1994/97     Sadia                        7.44        0.00      4.67   47.16      7.44     0.00       4.67   47.16
2002/04     Salutia                      0.00        0.08      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.08       0.00    0.00
1997        Samarco                      7.20        0.00      0.00    0.00      7.20     0.00       0.00    0.00
1998        Saraiva                      5.77        3.00      0.00    0.00      5.17     3.00       0.00    0.00
2003        Satipel                      15.00       0.00     10.00    0.00     15.00     0.00      10.00    0.00
2000        Sepetiba                     26.93       0.00      5.00    0.00     11.93     0.00       5.00    0.00
1997        sucomco                      1.50        0.00      0.00    0.00      1.50     0.00       0.00    0.00
1999        Sudamerica                   0.00        15.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    15.00       0.00    0.00
2001        Synteko                      18.00       0.00      0.00    0.00     18.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1996        TIGRE                        5.77        0.00      5.00    0.00      5.77     0.00       5.00    0.00
1998        Tecon Rio Grande             5.05        0.00      5.50    8.65      5.05     0.00       5.50    8.65
2001/03     Tecon Salvador               0.00        0.56      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.55       0.00    0.00
2002        UP Offshore                  11.60       10.00     0.00   30.00      0.00     3.00       0.00    0.00
2002/04     Unibanco                     20.00       0.00      0.00    0.00     14.80     0.00       0.00    0.00
1999        Vulcabras                    10.00       0.00      0.00    0.00     10.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1999        Wiest                        0.00        0.00      8.00    0.00      0.00     0.00       8.00    0.00
2001        AG Concession                0.00        15.00    15.00    0.00      0.00    14.07       0.00    0.00
1996/97     Algar Telecom                0.00        8.17      0.00    0.00      0.00     8.17       0.00    0.00
2002        Amaggi                       30.00       0.00      0.00    0.00     30.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
2002        Andrade G. SA                30.00       0.00     10.00   20.00     30.00     0.00      10.00   20.00
2001        Apolo                        8.00        0.00      0.00    0.00      5.50     0.00       0.00    0.00
1998        Arteb                        20.00       7.00      0.00    18.33    20.00     7.00       0.00    18.33
1999        AutoBAn                      25.97       0.00      0.00   21.57     25.97     0.00       0.00   21.57

                        Total portfilio: 668.25     154.45   212.19   537.85   589.80    137.85     193.89  507.85




                                                                 Approvals PendingCommitment

            FY Approval     Company                          Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.

            2002            Andrade                        0.00         0.00        0.00      0.10
            2000            BBA                            0.01         0.00        0.00      0.00
            2002            Banco Itau-BBA                 0.00         0.00        0.00      0.10
            2001            Brazil CGFund                  0.00         0.02        0.00      0.00
             1999           Cibrasec                       0.00         0.01        0.00      0.00
             2002           Net Servicos 2                 0.05         0.00        0.00      0.00
             2002           Suape ICT                      0.01         0.00        0.00      0.00
             2004           TermoFortaleza                 0.06         0.00        0.01      0.11
             2002           Unibanco-CL                    0.00         0.00        0.00      0.15

                                 Total pendingcommittment:    0.13      0.03        0.01      0.46




                                                          176

                                                       ANNEX XV
                                                   COUNTRYAT A GLANCE


                                                                 Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America  middle-
                                                       Brazil  & Carib. income       1Development diamond`
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                          1745      527     2,411                      Life expectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlasmethod, US$)                         2 630     3260     1,390
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                         494 5     1,727    3,352                             T


Average snnual growth, 1996.02
Population PA)                                             13        15       10
Labor force PA)                                            17       2 2       12

M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)
Poverty (%ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)            22
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                      82        76      49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                             69        71       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000livebirths)                     30        27       30
Child malnutrition (%of childrenunder.5)                    6         9       11              Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (%ofpopulation)          67        66       81
Illiteracy ("ofpopulation age E+                            12        11      13
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)          162      f30       111             -
                                                                                               e Braal
   Male                                                    166       131      111                Lower-middle-income group
   Female                                                  159      2 8       1KJ

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                1982    1992      2001    2002
                                                                                       Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                               2817    390.6    5090     4524
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                     211     189       212      193
Exports of goods and ServicesIGDP                  7.6    KJ.9      132      156                           Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                       20.4     214      202       215
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                         153     201       166      180                             T
Current account balancelGDP                       -5 8      16      -4 6     -17
Interest paymentslGDP                              34      0 7       30      3 0
TotaldebtiGDP                                    333      330      46 3      513
Total debt servicelexports                        619      211     764      702
Presentvalueof debt1GDP                                            526      564
Present value of debtlexports                                     3342                                  Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 1992-02   2001      2002 2002-06
(averageannualgrowfh)                                                                         -
GDP                                        2 6     2 7      14       15      3 4               --Bra1

GDP percapita                              0 7     14       0 1      02      2 2                   Lower-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                             ~




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                1982    1992      2001     2002        Growth of investment and GDP           ( O h )
("of GDP)                                                                                                                            I
Agriculture                                        9.0     7.7       6.1      6.1      l5T
Industry                                         456      367
   Manufacturing                                 346      247       140
Services                                         454      536       716     729

Privateconsumption                               696      615
Generalgovernment consumption                     I30      l71
Imports of goods and services                      63      6 4

                                              1982-92 1992-02                          Growth of exports and imports         ( O h )
(averageannualgrowfh)
Agriculture                                        25      3 5       5 7      5 8      20
Industry                                           16      2 3      -0 7      15       10
   Manufacturing                                   05       18       14       14
Services                                           32      2 6       19       15
Private consumption                                0 7     3 9       0 6      0 4     .lo
Generalgovernment consumption                      7 1     0 9       10       10      -                                              -
                                                                                      -20

Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and services                      39
                                                   4 1     7261      -11     -52                       -Exports    -Imports
                                                                     12     - P 8                XI*--




                                                                 177

                                                                                                                          Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1982     1992     2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                                 Inflation (%)                                   I
(%change)
Consumer prices                             W0.5     9516       7.7     7.7
implicit GDP deflator                       104.8   968.5       7.5     8.5

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                               22.7     24.1             97       98    99      00     01
Current budget balance                                          3.0     3.1
Overall surpiusideficit                                         3.8                    ,ra  -* ,GDPdeflator    &CPI


TRADE
                                           1982     1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                 1 Export and import levels (US$ mlll.)

Total exports (fob)                                35,793   58,223  60,362   175,000 T
 Coffee                                             2,534    2,932   3,049
 Soybeans                                           2,696    2,726    2,89
 Manufactures                                      23,787   32,901   33,001    50 000

Total imports (cif)                                20,554   55,572   47,219
 Food                                                 850     1,169   1,085    25 000
 Fuel and energy                                    3,069    6,276    6,281
 Capital goods                                      6,335    14,808  11,593         0

Export price index (W95=WO)                   73       92       94      95             96      97   98     99    00   01     02

Import price index(W95=WO)                    65       63       1M      115                       Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (W95=W0)                       le       147      82      82

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1982     1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports of goods andservices              21,967   38,999   67,545  69,968       0
Imports of goods andservices              24,761   25>77    72,653   61,863
Resource balance                          -2,794    0,282    -5,108   8,1)5      1

Net income                                -u,510    -9,382  -8,743   -8,191     -2
Net current transfers                          2    2,243     1,638  2,390

Current account balance                                                         -3
                                         -8,302      6,143  -23,213  -7,696

Financingitems (net)                        11,101  8,926    19,795  -3,570     -4

Changes in net reserves                     5,201  -15,069    3,418  11,266     -5
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)      3,994   23,754   35,866  37,823
Conversion rate (DEC,local/US$)          6.52E-11  1.64E-3      2.4     2.9

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1982     1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                   :omposition of 2002 debt (US$ mill,
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed       93,932  P9,060   245,644  232,075
  IBRD                                     2,694     7238    7,963    7,710                    G:    A:7,710       c
  IDA                                          0        0         0       0

Total debt sewice                          1928      8,647  54,322   51,636
  IBRD                                        411    1,90     1,362   1,518
  IDA                                          0        0         0       0

Composition of net resource flow
 Official grants                              24       38        81       0
 Official creditors                          966     -936    2,742      916
  Private creditors                        7,580     5,888   -1,781  -9,541
  Foreign direct investment                 2,910    2,061  22,636        0
  Portfolio equity                             0     1,704   2,482        0                   F:
World Bank program                                                                        152,327
 Commitments                                1,090    1,344    1,624   1,276      4 IBRD
                                                                                   -                               E- Bilateral
  Disbursements                              623       581    1,639   1,384      3-IDA        D-Othermuitilateral F-Private
  Principal repayments                       215     1,266     828    1,063      :-IMF                             G- Stwrt-terr




                                                                 178



