Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB924 
Project Name 
First Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P080829 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Environment (MMA) / Ministry of Fazenda (MF) 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) [x] U Not Rated 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
May 25, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 4, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
September 16, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
In few countries is the national environment as crucial to development and people's welfare, 
and at the same time vital to a sustainable global ecology, as in Brazil.  Among other things, 
Brazil has one third of all the tropical rain forest of the world, the largest reservoir of fresh water 
(20 percent), the second longest coastal line with over 8,500 km, and the savanna with the 
highest biodiversity in the world.  These natural assets are especially important for the poor for 
whom they constitute a significant share of their wealth.  The Amazon's regional and global 
influence is legendary. Clouds formed in the Amazon are responsible for the precipitation on the 
central part of the continent, all the way to São Paulo.  Moreover, just the annual burning in the 
region currently contributes with about two percent of the world annual CO2 emissions.  It is for 
these local, national, regional and global considerations that an environmentally sustainable 
Brazil is of great concern.  And yet attention to the issue remains inadequate.  This is why the 
success of this program is of vital importance. 
Brazil has historically based its economy on exploiting the immense wealth of its natural 
resources.  A significant part of its economy still relies on the use of natural resources, whether 
they are used as production inputs or as sinks for production waste. The forest sector alone is 
responsible for four percent of the GDP.  Despite the importance of its natural resource base, 
Brazil faces major challenges to reverse a trend of unsustainable use of its natural resources. 
It is difficult to estimate the social costs of environmental degradation in Brazil.  Rough 
estimates of such costs, focused only on a limited range of the consequences of environmental 
problems, indicate that they may be in the range of 1-4% of the country’s GDP per year.  This 
emphasizes the fact that environmental management and protection involve major welfare issues 
which go beyond simple amenity issues and small externalities.  There are clearly direct welfare 
gains to be obtained from improved environmental conditions, particularly for the poor. 
The “mainstreaming” of environmental concerns in and with other sectors is another major 
challenge for the country.  The approach of leaving environmental management almost 
exclusively to the Environment Ministry led to an over-emphasis on command-and-control 
Page  2
 
 
mechanisms, which tended to create attritions with sector ministries.  The poor integration of 
environmental with sectoral and macroeconomic policies causes environmental aspects to be 
neglected or considered too late in project planning and sector policy design, leading to high 
transaction costs.  Environmental decisions usually come after economic decisions have been 
made.  In many parts of government resistance remains to incorporating such matters in the 
planning of core economic and sector decisions. 
There remain many win-win-win opportunities (policies that are good for the poor, the 
environment, and growth), and not all have yet been taken advantage of.  It has proven difficult 
to negotiate solutions in those situations where trade-offs do exist between environment and 
growth, or environment and poverty alleviation.  Such compromises depend, on the one hand, on 
the defenders of environmental interests to identify and address trade-offs and to be more 
flexible and capable of reconciling environmental conservation objectives with social and 
economic ones.  On the other hand, it also depends on the capacity of ministries in other 
economic sectors (including Finance and Planning), to incorporate environmental considerations 
in their sector and macro policies. 
Brazil is thus at a crossroads in its search for equitable and sustainable growth. It has to find 
the right balance between its need to grow, reduce poverty, and maintain its natural resources 
base. This year is President Lula's opportunity to focus on the sustainability agenda.  There are 
hopeful signs that the Government will seize this opportunity, but also concerns that the 
opportunity may pass, and that environmental indicators may deteriorate.  Lagging behind on the 
sustainability pillar could have significant consequences to Brazil’s overall development agenda.  
The proposed operation is intended to consolidate the emerging trend toward a stronger focus on 
sustainability and avoid backsliding. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The principal objective of the proposed program is to support Brazil’s goal of balancing economic growth with 
socio development and the maintenance and improvement of environmental quality. In line with the CAS, the 
program would contribute to the objective of a more sustainable Brazil, to reduce poverty and achieve a higher 
quality of life for all Brazilians in both rural and urban areas.  A healthy natural and physical environment provides 
basic services in both urban and rural areas in a sustainable and efficient way (MDG 7).  It will build on the 
country’s comparative advantage in natural resources while also conserving them. Specifically, the Program aims at: 
 
• 
increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of Brazil’s environmental management 
system in balance with the objectives of sustainable economic growth, equity and 
reduction of poverty; and, 
• 
making the environment and sustainable use of natural resources a concern of all 
sectors of the economy and government (“mainstreaming”). 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed programmatic policy-based loans would complement existing programmatic approaches 
involving both investment and capacity building in such key priority areas as: public sector environmental 
management at the national and sub-national levels (NEP II), soil conservation and micro-basin management in the 
Page  3
 
 
south and southeast, water resource management in the northeast, biodiversity conservation and forest management 
in the Amazon (PPG7, ARPA, PROARCO, etc.), and urban sanitation improvements, etc., with which the Bank and 
GOB’s other partners (IDB, KfW, USAID, IFC, WWF, etc.) have been closely involved over the past two decades.  
Together, this unique combination of adjustment, investment, and institutional strengthening lending represents one 
of the most -- if not the most -- complete and comprehensive "packages" of Bank support to environmental 
improvement and sustainable development anywhere in the world.
  
  
 
The loan would build on recent analytical work.  The program rests on a solid foundation, stemming from a 
body of analytical work carried out by the GOB, the Bank,  bilateral institutions (KfW, USAID, DFID, etc.), the 
IDB, Brazilian and international researchers, and NGOs (e.g. IMAZON, IPAM, ISA, SOS Mata Atlantica, WWF, 
CI, TNC, etc.) over the past two decades.  The results of much of this work have been used and summarized in the 
Policy Notes prepared by the Bank for the current administration
1
.  Economic and sector work has focused primarily 
on the following topics: (
i
) the sustainable development of the Amazon, including forest management; (
ii
) causes 
and dynamics of deforestation; (
iii
) water resources management;  (
iv
) urban water supply and sewerage issues and 
their health impacts on the poor; and (
v
) urban air and water pollution issues and their impact on the poor. 
 
The proposed operation supports fundamental first steps by the Government to modernize the 
environmental management system (EMS) and bring it more in line with the broader growth 
agenda, desired improvements in the business environment, and better quality of life for 
Brazilians.  If followed up systematically by the actions outlined in the Government program, 
these first steps will pave the way toward important environmental improvements in the medium 
to long run.  In addition to addressing important policy issues, the preparation of the proposed 
loan has facilitated the initiation of a process of bridging the gap between the views of  different 
sectors in government, the private sector, and civil society in a way that will make the 
modernization of the EMS more broadly accepted by stakeholders and thus more effective .  Its 
implementation will enable the increased collaboration and better understanding of opportunities 
and challenges.  Additionally, the loan sets up the foundation for the implementation of more 
ambitious reforms that could be supported by two possible future loans in this programmatic 
series.   
The moment is right for the proposed program. Over the past two decades Brazil has done a 
lot to improve environmental management at both the national and sub-national levels.  The 
current administration is anxious to do more;  it is making a clear  attempt  to better integrate 
environmental objectives with social and economic ones.  
4. Description 
 
The proposed loan will support environmental sustainability through policy reforms focusing on two major 
areas: (
i
) increasing the efficiency and the effectiveness of the environmental management system; and (
ii
) 
mainstreaming environmental sustainability in selected sector policies and programs. This loan would be the first 
operation in a series of three loans over a four-year period possibly totaling US$ 1.0 billion. The proposed operation 
does not involve additional spending and focuses on policy and institutional changes that should ultimately lead to a 
more efficient and effective environmental management, which is expected to result, in the medium and long term
, 
in the improvement of environmental conditions.  
 
The set of policy and institutional reforms supported by the proposed loan include: (
a
) increasing the 
transparency and social control of the environmental management system (EMS); (
b
) improving the effectiveness of 
the EMS through better coordination and clearer definition of responsibilities among the three levels of government; 
(
c
) increasing the use of economic instruments as compared to command-and-control mechanisms; (
d
) promoting 
sustainable development in the Amazon and the protection of other key ecosystems; (
e
) improving water resources 
                                                          
 
1
 Brazil Equitable – Competitive – Sustainable – Contributions for Debate, prepared in 2002 and published in 2003.  Of special 
relevance for the EnvPRL are chapters 8, 9, 10 and 11.   
Page  4
 
 
management through increased decentralization, improved local management and increased financial autonomy; and 
(
f
) promoting the upstream inclusion of environmental sustainability concerns in sector policies and programs, as 
well as in the planning and implementation of major development projects. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 
0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
303.03 
 
Total 303.03 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The EnvPRL I, of US$ 303.03 million, corresponds to roughly a third of the total amount of 
the Program and focuses on deepening the national debate, ensuring the continuation of the 
positive of reforms by the current and previous administrations, launching initiating steps 
towards the process of promoting further reforms, including the design of policies and programs 
to be implemented later.  The second loan, EnvPRL II, would focus on getting approved selected 
key reforms of the EMS (including legislation, licensing, economic instruments and institutions) 
and of sectoral policies such as the launching and implementation of  the Sustainable Amazon 
Program and the National Water Resources Plan.  The third loan, EnvPRL III, would focus on 
implementing and consolidating the reforms brought about under the first two loans.  The 
program would be flexible so that, depending on the evaluation of previous stages, it can respond 
to emerging needs and problems.  
The EnvPRL is based on the Government’s Environmental Reform Agenda and the PPA.  
The EnvPRL is entirely in line with what the Bank considers key improvements in the country’s 
environmental management system and the thrust of the CAS.  It is, however, selective and 
includes reforms and activities that:  
• 
address key bottlenecks to more effective and efficient environmental management; 
• 
address specific environmental “liabilities” considered as priority by GOB and that 
are primarily under federal responsibility or require federal action and leadership;  
• 
have been found to lend themselves (initially) more easily to “mainstreaming” of the 
environmental agenda as they have already found the support and cooperation of 
sectoral ministries (Mines and Energy, Agrarian Development, National Integration, 
Cities, Tourism as well as Finance); and  
• 
can be implemented over the short to medium term. 
Policy reforms and actions are grouped in two broad categories:  The first group comprises 
actions that are under the control or influence of MMA: institutional strengthening, consolidation 
of the National Environmental Management System (particularly with regard to licensing, 
introduction of additional, more flexible instruments, and more transparency and accountability), 
protected areas, forest management, hazardous chemicals and the water resources management 
system.  While MMA would lead, reforms will still require collaboration of actors outside of 
MMA, in federal, state and even municipal governments.    
Page  5
 
 
The second group of reforms aims at incorporating environmental concerns and policies within specific 
economic sectors and ministries (“mainstreaming”).  Initially, the “sectors” and themes considered are:  Amazon 
deforestation control, environmental sustainable development in the Amazon, environmental sanitation, regional 
land use and development planning, fiscal and financial policies, energy, agrarian reform and tourism.  Other themes 
and issues may be introduced under the subsequent phases of the EnvPRL. 
 
The Policy Matrix contains a number of actions that are to be taken by multiple actors over 
the short and medium-term and are expected to bring about greater environmental sustainability 
in its diverse facets.  Final impacts of these reforms on the environment itself, in terms of natural 
resources (clean water, undegraded soils and vegetation, functioning ecosystems, etc.) actually 
conserved or restored are hardly measurable over the relatively short course of 4 year reform 
program.  A system of more directly measurable indicators of outcomes – considered essential as 
precondition for sustainability – has been proposed and included in the Policy Matrix. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
It should be recognized that the EnvPRL is subject to high risks, which are nonetheless 
mitigated by complementary operations, technical assistance, due diligence, and the 
programmatic framework.  In part because of these risks, the program will generate high returns 
in the case of success.  In recognizing the risks that might reduce the sustainable development 
impact of the loan, and outlining mitigation strategies, it is convenient to divide these potential 
risks into three categories: macroeconomic, coordination and institutional risks.  
First
, the 
economy remains vulnerable to external shocks and social and political pressure; 
second
, lack of 
coordination among the key stakeholders could affect program implementation; 
third
, 
discussions on future reforms and the approval process by the Congress could take longer than 
estimated; and 
fourth
,  change in leaders in the Ministers could lead to a delay in the 
implementation of the reforms.  While real, these risks have been taken into account in the 
design of the  EnvPRL operation.  The benefits of EnvPRL will be considerable, putting the 
development of key sectors on a sustainable footing, and reducing the impact of the activities of 
these economic sectors on the environment and natural resource base. 
This will be the Bank's first programmatic reform loan package ( EnvPRL) in Brazil to support environmental 
sustainability through policy reforms.  There is strong government ownership of the reforms in the initial operation.  
Most of the actions in the first loan (EnvPRL I) have already been completed.  However, in order to implement a 
program of this type, there is a need to move forward with additional priority reforms and institutional development 
in order to activate the second and third loan (EnvPRL II and EnvPRL III).  This underscores the importance of 
monitoring, multisectoral coordination and regular communication between the Bank and the Government on 
progress implementing the reform agenda. 
 
The Program’s progress toward achievement of its objectives would be monitored according 
to an agreed set of indicators contained in a Policy Matrix which clearly indicates the expected 
outputs
 of the next two loans along with its triggers.  Monitoring would be carried out by the 
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment through a participatory process with the 
civil society, with support from the Technical Assistance Loan associated with the EnvPRL. 
The Bank has agreed, in principle, with GOB to prepare a Technical Assistance Loan to 
support specific needs to strengthen the capacity of MMA and of other participating ministries 
closely related to GOB’s environmental reform and action program.  The loan would be of a 
Page  6
 
 
magnitude of up to US$10 million, and is expected to be submitted to the Board for 
consideration in December/2004. 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The proposed PRL incorporates the findings of the “Programmatic Adjustment Lending 
Retrospective" (Internal report, January 2004), which reviewed the experience with recent 
adjustment lending, identified issues of design and implementation, and suggested a number of 
good practices for programmatic adjustment operations:   
• 
The actions that the PRL will support are part of a larger Government reform 
program; 
• 
A concise and monitorable set of triggers has been clearly identified; 
• 
The policy matrix includes several indicators with time-bound benchmarks; 
• 
Ex-ante assessments of Brazil’s public expenditure, procurement and financial 
management systems have been carried out; 
• 
The program focuses on issues of transparency and accountability of the 
environmental management system; 
• 
Risks and mitigation measures have been clearly identified; 
• 
The proposed PRL builds on extensive analytical work. 
The proposed EnvPRL operation is the first adjustment operation on environment for 
Brazil, but the third in the LAC Region.  It attempts to heed lessons learned from this limited set 
of environmental reform operations, particularly from the Mexico Programmatic Structural 
Adjustment Loan I (EnvSAL I).  The second operation, Colombia Sustainable Development 
SAL, is still under preparation and in the process of generating lessons. The Mexico EnvSAL 
produced the following lessons:   
• 
Importance of a strong analytical base:  
In the proposed EnvPRL for Brazil, this has involved 
assessments of the institutional needs of the Ministry of Environment, the national environmental 
(SISNAMA) and water resource management (SINGERH) systems, and an ongoing, intense dialogue 
with the key sectoral ministries and agencies. 
 
• 
Ensure that the weakest have a voice and are not disproportionately affected
:  The EnvPRL promotes 
mechanisms for improved participation, accountability and transparency to influence long-term 
behavioral changes.  Consultations have been held with a number of representative civil society 
organizations in the development of the loan.  
 
• 
A supporting Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) is recommended:  
The EnvPRL focuses only on 
priority sectors, so that inter-institutional coordination efforts are not scattered but focused on the 
sectors that have highest impact in terms of environmental degradation.  An accompanying TAL is 
under preparation to directly support and strengthen the Government’s capacity to manage the  
program for results. 
 
Page  7
 
 
• 
Focus on a few central actions, impacts and results in the design of the Program:  
The EnvPRL policy 
matrix takes an integrated rather than sector- specific approach.  It focuses on recognition of recent and 
ongoing achievements in the first operation, design and implementation of policy reforms in the 
second operation, and then on impacts, embodied by indicators that reflect cross-sectoral interventions, 
in the final operation. 
 
The project also incorporates lessons learned from several technical assistance operations in 
the environment sector, including the Poland Environment Management Project and the Chile 
Environmental Institutions Development Project.  A major lesson from these projects is the 
importance of aligning institutional incentives with the implementation of environmental 
components.  The EnvPRL seeks to generate a shared vision with respect to sectoral-
environmental policy, involving all stakeholders such as the relevant sector agency, environment 
regulator, environmental enforcer, and financier, but requires only implementation by an 
institution in line with its existing mandate.  A second lesson refers to the importance of public 
participation and transparency in cross-sectoral and politically charged projects. In the EnvPRL, 
participation and transparency are promoted at different levels. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
 
10.  List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Amazon Sustainable Development and Forest Sector 
• 
Working Paper Nº22. “Causes of Deforestation of the Brazilian Amazon”. Sergio Margulis, 2003.  
• 
John Redwood III. 2002. “World Bank Approaches to the Brazilian Amazon: The Bumpy Road toward 
Sustainable Development”- Latin America and Caribbean Region Sustainable Development Working Paper 
Series; Nº13. Barreto, P. “Estudos sobre manejo florestal na Amazônia Brasileira”. Relatório Técnico. 
2002. 
• 
Barreto, P. 2002. “Estudos sobre manejo florestal na Amazônia Brasileira”. Relatório Técnico. 
• 
Diewald, C. 2002. “Notas sobre Políticas Públicas para o Brasil: Opções de Desenvolvimento e 
Conservação para as Florestas do Brasil.” 
• 
Motta, R. Seroa. Estimativa do custo econômico do desmatamento na Amazônia. Washington, D.C: World 
Bank, 2002. 
• 
Barros, G. Sant’Ana de Camargo; Zen, S. de; Ichihara, S.; Osaki, M.; Ponchio, L. “Economia da pecuária 
de corte e o processo de ocupação da Amazônia”. Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2002. 
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
 
 
• 
Barreto, P. “Sustainable forest management in Amazonia: incentives and disincentives”. Washington, D.C.: 
World Bank, 2002. 
• 
Schneider, R.; Arima, E.; Verissimo, A.; Barreto, P.; Souza Junior, C. “Amazônia sustentável: limitantes e 
oportunidades para o desenvolvimento rural”. Brasília, Banco Mundial; Belém, IMAZON, 2000. (Série 
Parcerias; Nr. 1). 
• 
Chomitz, Kenneth and Timothy Thomas. 2001. “Geographic Patterns of Land Use and Land Intensity in 
the Brazilian Amazon,” Policy Research Working Paper 2687. 
• 
Lele, Uma; Viana, Virgilio; Verissimo, Adalberto; Vosti, Stephen; Perkins, Karin; Husain, Syed Arif. 2000. 
Evaluation country case study series: “Brazil - Forests in the balance: challenges of conservation with 
development”. 
• 
Lutz, Ernst [Editor]; Binswanger, Hans; Hazell, Peter; McCalla, Alexander. 1998. “Agriculture and the 
environment - perspectives on sustainable rural development”. 
• 
Mahar, D.; Ducrot, C. “Land-use zoning on tropical frontiers: emerging lessons from the Brazilian 
Amazon”. Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 1998. 
• 
Schneider, R. 1995. “Government and the Economy on the Amazon Frontier”. World Bank Environment 
Paper Number 11, Washington, D.C. 
Water Resources and Environment 
• 
Abel Mejia, Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo, Martin P. Gambrill, Alexandre M. Baltar, Thelma Triche. 2003 – 
Working Paper: Série Água Brasil – Água, Redução de Pobreza e Desenvolvimento Sustentável. Vol. 1 
(Portuguese). 
• 
Lobato da Costa, Francisco Jose. 2003. “Estratégias de gerenciamento dos recursos hídricos no Brasil: 
áreas de cooperação com o Banco Mundial”. Vol. 1 (Portuguese).   
• 
Baltar, Alexandre; Azevedo, Luiz Gabriel T.; Rego, Manuel; La Laina Porto, Rubem. 2003. Working 
Paper: Série Água Brasil. Vol. 2. Sistemas de suporte a decisão para a outorga de direitos de uso de água no 
Brasil. 
• 
Foster, Stephen; Hirata, Ricardo; Gomes, Daniel; D ' Elia, Mônica; Paris, Marta 2002. “Groundwater 
quality protection : a guide for water utilities, municipal authorities, and environment agencies” 
• 
Margulis, Sergio; Hughes, Gordon; Gambrill, Martin; Azevedo, Luiz Gabriel T. 2002. “Brazil : managing 
water quality - mainstreaming the environment in the water sector”. 
• 
Ariel Dinar, Editor. 2000. “The political economy of water pricing reforms”.Vol. 1. 
• 
World Bank, “Brazil: Private Participation in the Water Sector: Case Studies, Lessons, and Future 
Options”. (“Brasil: Participação do Setor Privado no Setor Água: Estudos de Caso, Lições e Opções para o 
Futuro”). 2000. Report Nr.  19896-BR. 
• 
Asad, Musa; Gabriel Azevedo, Luiz; Kemper, Karin E.; Simpson, Larry D. , 1999. “Management of Water 
Resources: Bulk water pricing in Brazil” Vol. 1. 
• 
Marino, Manuel; Kemper, Karin E. [editors] 1999. World Bank Technical Paper: “Institutional frameworks 
in successful water markets – Brazil, Spain, and Colorado, USA”. Vol. 1. 
• 
Saleth, R. Maria; Dinar, Ariel. 1999. Policy Research Working Paper - “Water Challenge and institutional 
response (a cross-country perspective).” Vol. 1. 
 
Sanitation 
• 
Brook, P.J. and S.M Smith, eds. 2001. Contracting for Public Services: Output-Based Aid and its 
Applications (Contratação de Serviços Públicos) – Ajuda com base nos Resultados e suas Aplicações). 
Page  9
 
 
• 
“Brazil: Regulations for Better Water and Sewerage Services” (“Brasil: Regulação para Melhorar os 
Serviços de Saneamento), 1999. Report Nº 19568-BR. 
• 
Marino, Manuel; Boland, John. 1999. “Directions in development: An integrated approach to wastewater 
treatment: deciding where, when and how much to invest”. Vol. 1. 
 
Air and Water Pollution  
• 
“Brazil – Managing pollution problems: the brown environmental agenda”- Sector Report. World 
Development Sources 1998. Vol. 2. 
• 
“Brazil - Managing pollution problems : the brown environmental agenda”- Sector Report. World 
Development Sources 1998. Vol. 1. 
 
Economic Instruments 
• 
Haddad, P.; Rezende, F. “O uso de instrumentos econômicos para o desenvolvimento sustentável: o ICMS 
Ecológico”. Paper for Brazil Ministry of the Environment and the World Bank, 2002a. 
• 
Haddad, P.; Rezende, F. “Proposta de medidas tributárias de estímulo ao uso sustentável da madeira”. 
Paper for Brazil Ministry of the Environment and the World Bank, 2002b.   
• 
Chomitz, K.; Thomas, T.; Brandão, A. Salazar. “All trees are the same, all trees are different: creating 
markets for habitat conservation when habitats are heterogeneous”. Policy Research Working Paper. 
Washington, D.C.:World Bank, 2003. 
• 
Chomitz, K. “Transferable development rights and forest protection: an exploratory analysis”. Paper 
prepared for a workshop on Market-Based Instruments for Environmental Protection at Harvard University, 
Cambridge, Massachussetts, 1999. 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo 
Title: Sector Leader 
Tel: 5561+1041 
Fax: 5561+1010 
Email: Lazevedo@worldbank.org 
Location: Brasilia, Brazil (IBRD) 
 
12.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
