Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB792 
Project Name 
First Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P080829 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Environment (MMA) / Ministry of Fazenda (MF) 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) [x] U Not Rated 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 29, 2004 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 11, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 29, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Brazil is at a cross-roads in its search for equitable and sustainable growth.  It needs to address 
some key development issues, for example possible energy black-out
1
 in 2007, wood products 
black-out
2
, and increased water supply and sanitation (WSS) gaps.  Solving these challenges 
requires a well coordinated and balanced effort towards quickly advancing the environmental 
management system (EMS) agenda while stimulating sustainable use of natural resources. 
Major challenges remain in order to reverse a trajectory of unsustainable use of natural resources 
in Brazil, such as deforestation in the Amazon, pollution of  major water basins, pollution of air 
in the largest metropolitan areas.  Major challenges also remain in terms of consolidating the 
GoB’s EMS to one that is more flexible and agile, better articulated and more effective. This 
calls for increased institutional capacity, coordination with policies from other sectors, and use of 
more transparent and effective instruments.  These serious problems remain despite the 
acknowledged and well established fact that the Brazilian EMS is well structured and 
consolidated and that the country has a strong record of continuous improvements to its EMS. 
The EMS remains fundamentally reliant on its licensing system, which imposes increasingly 
more sophisticated requirements on private agents.  For historical reasons, perhaps, it has not 
been easy for the sector as a whole to work in partnership, to provide technical assistance, to be 
flexible where feasible, and to monitor and to follow up the agreements and requirements 
contained in the licenses.  The licensing system thus largely summarizes the current state and 
challenges of the environment sector in Brazil.  While the progress to date has been very 
significant, the challenges ahead are considerable.  
                                                          
 
1
 Preliminary assessments indicate that if the generation capacity is not expanded over the coming years Brazil may 
face an energy black-out similar to what happened in 2001; 
2
 The current deficit for the paper and pulp industry is estimated at some 200,000 ha per year of plantation forest. 
Consequently Brazil will have to import wood for its paper industry as early as 2007.  Additionally the 
construction industry is forecasting a significant deficit in wood products mainly produced in the Amazon 
region.  
Page  2
 
 
President Lula’s first year, the GoB could not particularly focus on issues related to sustainability 
and environmental management. However, at the beginning of its second year, the GoB is under 
great pressure on the social and growth agendas. This pressure is aggravated by the political 
cycle with upcoming municipal elections at the end of 2004. This requires setting in motion a 
process of continuing reforms that have both medium and short term implications.  Lagging 
behind on the sustainability pillar could have significant impacts to Brazil’s overall development 
agenda. 
President Lula’s Government team has already made some clear commitments to implement a 
model of sustainable development, maintaining and furthering existing initiatives and pursing 
necessary advances of the country’s EMS. To a large extent, the proposed operation is an 
endorsement by the Bank of the recent and longer-term evolution of the EMS in Brazil, coupled 
with the renewed commitment by the Federal Administration and  recognition that major 
problems and challenges exist.  
Issues relating to environmental sustainability and mainstreaming are complex, particularly in a 
continental country which is one of the world’s mega-biodiverse.  Thus, the preparation of a high 
quality operation in a very short period of time is a significant challenge but it also offers a 
unique opportunity to take advantage of the political momentum and consensus gained in the 
country.  It is considered that the Bank’s long and substantive experience with environmental 
institutions and sustainability issues in Brazil offers an important initiating platform to advance 
the reform agenda in the short term. 
The loan is justified by its direct contribution to improving environmental quality.  However, it 
will also support the objective of a more sustainable Brazil to reduce poverty and achieve a 
higher quality of life for all Brazilians in both rural and urban areas.  A healthy natural and 
physical environment provides basic services in both urban and rural areas in a sustainable and 
efficient way (MDG 7).  It will build on the country’s comparative advantage in natural 
resources (Brazil is home to some of the world’s most important natural assets, including the 
Amazon, the largest rain forest biome in the world, containing by far the largest portion of 
remaining rainforest and up to a fifth of the world’s freshwater) – while also conserving them.  A 
sustainable Brazil will also be a source of competitiveness and provide wealth for the future. 
The operation is very timely.  More than any time in the past, the requirements for environmental 
compliance are only becoming stricter, with economic agents increasingly aware and conscious 
of their environmental responsibilities.  This clearly forces the environmental sector to become 
more responsive, agile,  effective, and capable of working with other sectors and private agents.   
The process of dialogue and consultation with the GoB, States, NGOs and private sector has 
raised numerous and challenging issues which provide for a large sustainable development 
agenda, and broad based recognition that:  (a) the operation is timely in the political agenda of 
the Government which finds itself at a cross roads of fostering large infrastructure development 
as a condition to jump-start economic growth and expand employment; (b) the proposed target 
areas in the ENVPRL are indeed consensual priorities across environment and development 
sectors, and the civil society; and (c) the PRL is a relevant and appropriate instrument to assist 
the Government to unblock a policy gridlock in the application of environment instruments to the 
resolution of key development problems and challenges.    
Page  3
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The program have a main goal of balancing socioeconomic development with the maintenance 
and improvement of environmental quality.   
The program will be the first operation in a series of three loans over a four-year period possibly 
totaling US$ 1.0 billion.  This loan will be accompanied by a technical assistance loan (TAL).  
The first loan will correspond to roughly a third of this amount (US$ 300 million), and it will 
focus on deepening the national debate, ensuring the positive trend of implementation of reforms 
approved by previous administrations, and launching the process of promoting further reforms.  
The second phase will focus primarily on key legislative and institutions reforms to the EMS 
(including licensing, economic instruments and institutions) and to sectors.  The third loan will 
focus on consolidating the reforms implemented in the first and second operations. 
The first loan will support actions in two main areas: (a) increasing the efficiency and the 
effectiveness of the environmental management system (EMS); and (b) mainstreaming with 
sector policies and programs.   
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The strategy for this first proposed operation is to support GoB’s medium and long-term broad 
program, focusing on short term policy and programs that can lay the foundation and plant seeds 
to supporting the achievement of long-term objectives. 
The programmatic operation is selective and includes only structural reforms and/or programs 
that are perceived to be key bottlenecks to a more effective and efficient EMS in Brazil.  It is 
divided into two main components:  (a) dealing with issues under a more direct influence and 
control of the Ministry of Environment – institutional strengthening, better coordination of the 
National System of Environment Management (SISNAMA), and flexible instruments and social 
control; and (b) focusing on issues related to specific economic sectors and which depend on a 
high degree of involvement and collaboration with these other sectors – mainstreaming.  The five 
key focal areas of the operation deals with EMS and green, brown, blue and red agendas. 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
N/A 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 
0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
300 
 
Total 300 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo 
Title: Sector Leader 
Tel: 55-61-329-1041 
Fax: 55-61-329-1010 
Email: Lazevedo@worldbank.org 
Location: Brasilia, Brazil (IBRD)
Page  4
 
 
 
