Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7256 - BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Reform Loan for Environmental Sustainability) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 3, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7256 - BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 3, 2004, between the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated July 7, 2004, from the 
Borrower: (i) describing its macroeconomic framework and a program of actions, 
objectives and policies to strengthen the Borrower’s system of environmental 
sustainability management (the Program), which Program consists of actions that have 
already been taken as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the First Phase of the 
Program), and actions and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt in the near 
future; (ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the objectives of the Program; and 
(iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and 
(B) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the first phase of the program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of 
the Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of 
the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from 
the Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be 
required to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the first phase of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “ANA” 
means 
Agência Nacional de Águas
,
the Borrower’s management 
and regulatory agency for the water sector; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“Central Bank” means 
Banco Central do Brasil
,
the Borrower's central 
bank;  
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d) “IBAMA” 
means 
Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos 
Naturais Renováveis
-
IBAMA, the Borrower’s Environment and Natural Renewable 
Resources Institute; 
(e) “MF” 
means 
Ministério da Fazenda
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance; 
(f) “MMA” 
means 
Ministério do Meio Ambiente
,
the Borrower’s Ministry 
of the Environment; and 
(g) “MP” 
means 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred two 
million five hundred twenty thousand Dollars ($502,520,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of five hundred million 
seven thousand four hundred Dollars ($500,007,400) from the Loan Account in support 
of the First Phase of the Program. 
(b) 
Prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for withdrawal from the 
Loan Account, the Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All 
withdrawals of the amount referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Deposit Account. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.  
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at 
the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09.  (a)  The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by th
e
Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01.  The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the First Phase of the Program, or any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the First Phase of the Program. 
 
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the 
achievement of the objectives of the First Phase of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Central Bank. 
Section 5.02.  The date January 3, 2005, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8
°
andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5
°
andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ Maurício Cardoso Oliva 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Antonio Rocha Magalhães 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
Page  11
-
10
-
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
 
parts thereof; fuel 
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728                        
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold, 
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
goldsmiths’ 
 
or
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including 
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
First Phase of the Program 
1. 
(a) Procedures were set out, pursuant to MMA’s 
Portaria
 No. 473, of December 
9, 2003, for the establishment of committees comprising representatives of the federal, 
state and municipal levels of government (
Comissões Tripartites)
 with the objective of 
improving integration, providing for clearer definition of attributions and the elimination 
of gaps and overlaps in the environmental management system, including the licensing 
process.
 
(b)
 
Fourteen of the committees referred to in (a) above have been created, 
pursuant to MMA’s 
Portaria 
No
.
131,
of June 3, 2004.
 
2. 
The following measures have been taken to strengthen the capacity of MMA and 
IBAMA to carry out their functions and responsibilities: (a) creation of the environment 
specialist career, pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 10410, of January 11, 2002; (b) 
carrying out of a diagnosis of the new administrative structure of MMA (
Projeto de 
Revisão Institucional e Organizacional do MMA
); (c) hiring of new qualified fixed-term 
staff, pursuant to public selection processes carried out on August 28, 2003; (d) MMA 
submitted to MP, on June 3, 2004 (
Aviso
 No. 091/GM/MMA), a proposal for a new 
institutional structure for MMA and IBAMA; and (e) MP has authorized, pursuant to 
MP’s 
Portaria
 No. 144, of June 21, 2004, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
(
Diário Oficial da União
)
dated June 22, 2004, the initiation of public selection processes 
to fill 100 positions in MMA and 610 positions in IBAMA. 
3. 
The Borrower’s Law No. 10650, of April 16, 2003, which provides for the public 
availability of data and information held by the entities which are parties to the 
Borrower’s National Environment System (
Sistema Nacional do Meio Ambiente
), was 
enacted for the purpose of improving transparency of information on environmental 
matters, including the environmental licensing process. 
4. 
(a) Bill of Law No. 3285/92, which provides for the utilization and protection of 
the vegetation of the Atlantic Forest (
Bioma Mata Atlântica
,
as defined in such Bill of 
Law), was approved by the Borrower’s House of Representatives (
Câmara de 
Deputados
)
on
December 3, 2003, and its consideration by the Borrower’s Senate is 
being processed on a urgent basis. 
 
(b) Working groups were created to prepare programs for the conservation of the 
Atlantic Forest and the 
Cerrado
 (savanna areas located in the States of São Paulo, Minas 
Gerais, Mato Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso, Goiás, Tocantins and Bahia, and the Federal 
Page  14
-
13
-
District), pursuant to MMA’s 
Portarias
 Nos. 221, of May 9, 2003, and 361, of September 
12, 2003, respectively. 
 
(c) The Borrower’s Decree No. 5092, dated May 21, 2004, defined rules for 
identification by MMA of priority areas for conservation, sustainable use and biodiversity 
benefits, and MMA’s 
Portaria
 No. 126, of May 27, 2004, has identified such priority 
areas. 
5. 
(a) The coordination committee of the Borrower’s national forest program was 
created pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 4864, of October 24, 2003. 
(b) A draft bill of law, providing for the management of public forests for 
sustainable production, was submitted, through E.M. 033 dated July 15, 2004, by MMA 
to the Borrower’s President’s Office (
Casa Civil da Presidência da República)
 for review 
and submission to the Borrower’s Congress. 
 
(c) The Cartagena Protocol on Bio-safety was approved by the Borrower’s 
Congress pursuant to 
Decreto Legislativo 
No. 908/03, published in such Congress’s 
Official Gazette on November 24, 2003, and became effective for the Borrower on 
February 22, 2004.
 
6. 
(a) The Borrower’s National Commission of Chemical Substances (
Comissão 
Nacional de Substâncias Químicas
 - CONASQ) created, on April 15, 2003, a national 
program for chemical safety.
 
(b) An agreement between MMA and the state environmental agencies on 
prevention of, and rapid response to, environmental emergencies caused by dangerous 
chemicals was signed on August 20, 2003, and the corresponding program (known as 
P2R2) was discussed by such parties on April 26, 2004. 
 
(c) A national commission was created for the implementation of the P2R2 
program referred to in (b) above, pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 5098, of June 3, 
2004. 
 
(d) The Conventions of Rotterdam, on procedures for previous informed consent 
for the international trade of certain dangerous chemical substances and agro-toxics, and 
Stockholm, on the ban of persistent organic pollutants, were approved by the Borrower’s 
Congress pursuant to 
Decreto Legislativos 
Nos. 204/04 and 197/04, respectively, both 
published in such Congress’s Official Gazette on May 10, 2004.
 
Page  15
-
14
-
7. 
(a) The basic reference document and guidelines for the Borrower’s water 
resources national plan were issued in November 2003 by MMA, the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Water Resources (
Secretaria de Recursos Hídricos
)
and ANA. 
 
(b) Management of water resources has been improved with the entry into force 
of the Borrower’s Provisional Measure (
Medida Provisória
)
No. 165, of February 11, 
2004 (converted into the Borrower’s Law No. 10881, of June 9, 2004), which established 
the conditions and means to enhance the management of water resources at the basin 
level, through management contracts to be entered into between ANA and local water 
basin agencies, and the transfer of financial resources to such agencies. 
 
(c) The first voluntary contribution for the usage of bulk water has been 
implemented in the 
Paraíba do Sul
 river basin, as of March 2003, based on the 
authorization granted by Resolution No. 15, of November 4, 2002, of the Committee for 
Integration of the Paraíba do Sul River Basin. 
8. 
(a) A plan, prepared by the working group established by the Borrower’s Decree 
dated July 3, 2003, as modified by the Borrower’s Decree dated March 15, 2004, to 
prevent and control deforestation in the Borrower’s Amazon region, was issued in March 
2004. 
(b) An inter-ministerial working group was created, pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Decree dated March 15, 2004, to prepare and coordinate the implementation of a plan for 
the sustainable development of the region covered by the federal highway BR-163 
(
Cuiabá-Santarém
). 
9. 
(a) An agreement to establish a sustainable development program for the 
Borrower’s Amazon region was signed, on May 9, 2003, by the Borrower’s president and 
the governors of the states in such region. 
(b) A draft of the program referred to in (a) above has been finalized in May 
2004.
 
10. 
(a) An inter-ministerial working group was created, pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Decree dated September 4, 2003, to carry out studies and formulate proposals for the 
integration of environmental sanitation actions within the Borrower’s federal 
government. 
Page  16
-
15
-
(b) The certification system of firms under the Borrower’s program to clean river 
basins (known as PRODES) was created, pursuant to ANA’s Operational Manual (
versão 
2002.1) for such program, and is being implemented in a satisfactory manner. 
 
(c) A technical cooperation agreement (
Acordo de Cooperação Técnica
)
was 
entered into, on December 2, 2003, between MMA and the Borrower’s Ministries of the 
Cities and the Culture, providing for cooperation in integrated planning and management 
activities related to territorial and urban development, cultural assets and environmental 
protection, based on the principle of sustainable development and the so-called Brazilian 
Agenda 21. 
11. 
(a) A consortium of public sector entities (
Consórcio ZEE Brasil
)
has been 
established, pursuant to the Borrower’s Decrees dated December 28, 2001 and February 
12, 2004, to carry out ecological and economic zoning on behalf of the Borrower’s 
federal government.  
 
(b) Methodological guidelines for economic and ecological zoning, issued in 
2001 and updated in 2003, were published in MMA’s website. 
12. 
(a) Article 170, subparagraph VI, of the Borrower’s Constitution was amended 
by Constitutional Amendment No. 42, of December 19, 2003, to provide that the 
economic order shall, inter alia, observe the principle of environmental sustainability, 
through a differentiated treatment based on the environmental impact of goods and 
services, and their corresponding manufacturing and provision processes. 
 
(b) MMA and MF’s Secretariat of Federal Revenues have initiated, on June 15, 
2004, discussions for the inclusion of environmental sustainability criteria in tax laws and 
regulations.  
 
(c) A working group comprising representatives of MMA and MF has been 
established, pursuant to 
Portaria Interministerial
 No. 141, of June 17, 2004, of the 
Ministers of MF, MMA, Labor and Employment, and National Integration, to improve 
and streamline the so-called Green Protocol (
Protocolo Verde
)
signed in 1995 by the 
main financial institutions controlled by the Borrower’s federal government, as well as 
other similar instruments, for the purpose of including environmental considerations in 
their credit approval decision-making processes. 
13. 
(a) A technical cooperation agreement (
Acordo de Cooperação Técnica
)
was 
entered into, on March 30, 2004 between MMA and the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines 
and Energy for the implementation of an integrated environmental agenda for the electric 
Page  17
-
16
-
power, petroleum, natural gas and renewable fuels sectors, and the geologic and mining 
activities. 
 
(b) An upstreaming of the environmental analysis for energy sector 
projects was introduced by the Borrower’s Law No. 10847, dated March 15, 
2004, which authorized the creation of 
Empresa de Pesquisa Energética
 - EPE. 
(c) A program to support alternative forms of electric power energy 
(known as PROINFA) was created, pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 10438, 
of April 26, 2002, as amended by the Borrower’s Law No. 10762, of November 
11, 2003. 
14. 
A national plan for agrarian reform, which includes environmental sustainability 
criteria, was officially launched in November 2003. 
15. 
A technical cooperation agreement (
Acordo de Cooperação Técnica
)
was entered 
into, on August 9, 2004, between MMA and the Borrower’s Ministry of Tourism to 
create an environmental agenda for the tourism sector. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
 
Beginning November 15, 2009 
 
 
through November 15, 2020 
4.17% 
 
On May 15, 2021  
 
4.09% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
 
