FILE CDPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 143a-MOR
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
November 6, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be pubUshed, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCr EQUIVAL!NTS
Currency Unit         a Dirham (Dh)
Dh 3.90               a US$1.00
Dh 1                  - us$o.2564
Dh 1,000,000          - US$256,.412
Dh 3,9oo,000          - US$ 1,000,000
SrSTEK OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURESt METRIC
Metric System         British Imperial/U,S. Syatep
1 kilometer (km)      5 0.62 nile (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)  - 2,204.60 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)           5  0.88 British Imperial quart (qt)
ACRONIMS AND ABBREVIATIONS 1
MPWC   - Ministry of Public Works and Communications
BCEOM  - Bureau Central d'Etudes d'Outre-Mer
PWS   -- Public Works South
PWN    -  Public Works North
REI   -  Public Corporation for Industrial Management
STP    -  Public Works Service
ONT    - National Office for Transport
ONCF   - National Railways
ONEP   - National Office for Drinking Water
TNDP   - United Nations Development Programme
ADI    - Average Daily Traffic
HP     -  Horse Power
ki/h   -  kilometer per hour
KINGDaM OF MOROCCO FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/ Adjusted as of July 1973.
2/ Acronyms of organization names relates French titles of
organizations in Morocco.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ... ........... .. ...... .. .... .    i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION              ........................................                   1
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ...... .................o.........                             2
A.    Description  . ............   ............... ........ .                      2
B.    Planning,  Financing,  and Coordination    ..........                        4
III.     HIGHWAYS  .......................                             ..............        6
A.    The Network  * ... .............             . ... * * *    .*******....*..*..*.  6
B.    Road Traffic  .          ..................................                  6
C.    Administration   .              .     ............... ...........             7
D.    Planning and Financing  ............ 0.......  ..*..                          8
E.    Construction  ..............   . ........                  . .. . . .. .  .   8
F.    Maintenance  .......................... ....... .......                       9
r               ~~~~G.    Training  .......... 0...  ...       ** .......................           10
IV.    THE PROJECT                 ......................................                  10
A.    Description  ............. ....             0...............................  10
B.    Cost  Estimate  and Foreign Exchange  Component   ...                       13
Cl.    Execution  . ................................               ...........    15
D.  Financing                ,           ..       ........ ..   16
E.    Disbursement  .* .......                  .....   ... ...........           16
V.    ECONO1C  EVALUATION  ... o               .........................  o-             16
A. General ............   16
Bo  Roadworks .........................                                           17
C.    Other  Project  Elements                                 ............       18
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS o                               ................. .    19
This report was prepared by Messrs. G. Ludwig (Engineer), A.J. Stone
(Economist), G. El-Rifai (Young Professional).



CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1. Railway Traffic, 1959-69
2. Port Traffic at Casablanca and Tangier, 1965-69
3. Highway Network, by Classification, 1972
4. Motor Vehicle Fleet, 1965-70
5. Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1965-70
6. Highway Investment Plans, 1965-72
7. Highway Maintenance Expenditures, 1967-71
8. Cost Estimate of Highway Improvement Works
9. Maintenance Equipment to be Purchased
10. Highway Design Standards
11. Economic Evaluation of Casablanca-Rabat Expressway
12. Economic Evaluation of Highway Improvement Program
ANNEXES
A.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
B.   Main Assumptions Used in Economic Evaluation
CHART
Organization of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications
MAP
Transportation Infrastructure



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Morocco's transport system, largely concentrated in the coastal
plain between the Atlas mountain ranges and the Atlantic, serves all produc-
tive areas of the country reasonably well. The system comprises: 51,500 km
of primary, secondary and tertiary roads, of which about 21,500 km are paved;
a 1,200 km railway system, including a section of the international line
Casablanca to Tunis (Tunisia); six major ports of varving importance; six
minor ports; and eight airports, including three which can handle transoceanic
flights.
ii.       The railways, roads, ports and airports are owned and administered
by the Government. In accordance with Government policy to restrict private
services which may compete with the public sector, the licencing and operation
of privately owned trucks and buses is highly regulated. Government control
is most strict in the rail/road freight industry and includes: control of
all licences (public and private) for trucks over 5.5 tons capacity; direct
assignment of cargoes to common carriers; and regulation of rates (and fares)
for rail and road transport. The Bank has opened discussions with the Gov-
ernment on deregulating the industry. The Government has begun a study on
deregulation and has agreed to discuss the study results with the Bank.
iii.      Transport infrastructure investments have been modest in previous
years, especially in roads, so that a backlog of highway investments have
accumulated. Many roads have poor alignments and other design characteristics
and are below standard for present traffic. A start was made with the re-
habilitation and modernization of the most important roads in greatest need
under the First Highway Project. This process will be continued under the
proposed project by completing the first phase construction of an expressway
between Casablanca and Rabat and improving sections of 17 high priority roads
with a total length of 679 km. These works constitute a major part of the
highway investments planned for 1973-75. The project also includes purchases
of road maintenance equipment for replacing equipment over 10 years old;
technical assistance for improving transport planning, and two urban transport
studies. The project supports the emphasis in Bank group lending on institu-
tion building in that it provides for significant organizational reforms in
the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MPWC), improvements in main-
tenance administration, and for better overall transport and project planning.



- ii -
iv.       The Ministry of Public Works and Communications, assisted by
consultants, will be responsible for carrying out the entire project. The
Ministry will appoint qualified counterparts to work full-time with the con-
sultants on the urban transport studies and the technical assistance pro-
gram. Bidding and contract award procedures for the construction and im-
provement works are in accordahce with Bank guidelines. The works have been
arranged to make contracts of a size which are attractive to both local and
foreign bidders, who will be allowed to bid for one or more contracts, sepa-
rately or in combination.
v.        The total project cost, including contingency allowances, is es-
timnated at USS43.3 million. The loan will finance the foreign exchange cost
of the project (US$29.0 million); the Government the local cost. The Govern-
ment has asked for retroactive financing of US$1.3 million, representing
the foreign exchange costs for the detailed engineering studies for the
Casablanca-Rabat expressway and the Kenitra-Larache road which were under-
taken in 1972 with the Bank's agreement. This amount, covering the consult-
ing work as from January 1, 1972, is included in the project.
vi.       The project is economically well justified.  With respect to road-
works only benefits from lower accidents, maintenance, and transport costs
have been quantified in the economic analysis; benefits from reduced travel
time for passengers in cars and buses have been excluded. Quantified benefits
are estimated to yield an Economic Return (ER) of 16% on the first stage of
the Casablanca-Rabat expressway. Sensitivity tests show that the ER would be
12% if construction costs were 20% higher than the best estimate, or if
benefits were 25% lower. The road improvements have a combined ER of 62%,
with individual rates per section ranging from a minimum of 17% to over 100%.
The purchases of road maintenance equipment are justified by savings in the
cost of maintenance, repair, and operating the existing equipment over ten
years old which is to be replaced. Benefits from the other project elements
have not been quantified, but technical assistance is essential for improving
the operations of the MPWC and the detailed engineering and urban transport
studies for sound project preparation.
vii.      Based on the expected economic lives of the road sections to be built
or improved, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$29 million with a
term of 20 years, including 4 years of grace.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, in agreement with the
Bank, contracted consultants in 1971 to carry out detailed engineering for
the Casablanca-Rabat expressway for which a feasibility study financed under
the first highway project had shown a satisfactory Economic Return. A Bank
identification mission in September 1972 recommended the construction of the
first phase of the expressway, the improvement of various road sections,
purchases of highway maintenance equipment, traffic studies and technical
assistance. A US$43.3 million project has since been prepared for financing
by the Bank Group and the Government.
1.02      This will be the second project financed by the Bank Group in
Morocco's transportation sector.  The first project consisted of the construc-
tion and improvement of roads, purchases of highway maintenance equipment
and a transport survey to be carried out by consultants.  Its total cost was
estimated at US$21.2 million, whica the Bank Group helped finance with a
Loan/Credit (Loan 642-Mor/Credit 167-M1r) of US$14.6 million equivalent,
corresponding to the foreign exchange component of the project. The Loan/
Credit was signed on November 13, 1969, and became effective on May 20, 1970.
Overall execution of the project is satisfactory, although disbursements are
lagging behind the appraisal estimate; they currently amount to about 60% of
the appraisal estimate, mainly due to the slow and cumbersome processing of
contractors' bills by the Administration.
1.03      This report is based on information provided by the Ministry of
Public Works and Communications (MPWC), a feasibility study and detailed
engineering for the Casablanca-Rabat expressway, and a study on highway organ-
ization and administration carried out by the consulting firm BCEOM (France),
and the findings of a November/December 1972 appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. G. Ludwig (Engineer), A.J. Stone (Economist) and G. El Rifai (Young
Professional). Mr. R. Venkateswaran (Special Projects Department) participated
in the appraisal mission for a brief period to define the proposed urban studies.



-2-
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Description
2.01      The transport system is reasonably well developed.  The system is
fairly extensive for a country with an area four-fifths the size of France;
a population of 15.6 million growing at an annual rate of 2.9% overall, and
5% in urban areas; and with a per capita income in the US$200-250 bracket.
It connects all major production and consumption centers as well as the local
communities to main routes. The existence of a fairly sizeable network of
local roads is important considering that 70% of the population live in rural
areas and 30% in cities. The infrastructure is mainly concentrated in the
coastal plain, known as the Atlantic corridor, and the valleys between the
three parallel mountain ranges running southwest to northeast, called the
Atlas mountains. Traffic is particularly dense between Casablanca and Rabat.
The former is the country's commercial center, main port and largest city
with a population of over one million. Rabat, the capital, is the second
largest city with approximately 300,000 inhabitants. The Atlantic corridor
generates also a significant volume of export/import traffic, especially with
Europe since Morocco is only 15 km from the southern tip of Europe across the
Strait of Gibraltar.
2.02      The transport system comprises:  about 1,200 km of railways, 51,500
km of roads, six major ports and eight airports served by international and
national airlines.
2.03      Although the density of transport infrastructure is basically ade-
quate, investments need to be made in rolling stock for rail, some port improve-
ments, and especially in roads, many of which have deteriorated and are below
standard for current traffic. Road improvements need to be made for the gen-
eral movement of passengers and freight, but also to support the development
of agriculture, which generates 30% of GNP and about 60% of total exports.
Morocco is an important producer of citrus fruit and tomatoes for the European
market. Good roads are required for inland transport of these products to
keep transport costs to a minimum as well as to ensure speedy deliveries of
fresh quality products and to avoid spoilage. Good roads are also needed for
Morocco's budding tourism industry, which in 1971 contributed 11% of total
foreign exchange earnings.
2.04      The total passenger and freight market cannot be estimated with a
reasonable degree of accuracy because no reliable data exist on private
passenger transport by car and the operations of unlicenced public truckers.
Broadly, available data indicate that the total market has steadily expanded
in recent years, in line with economic growth, and that most of the increase
in traffic has been attracted by road transport. However, during the past
three years (1970-72) rail freight has increased 10% annually, mainly due to
expanding phosphate traffic.



- 3 -
2.05      The modal split of passenger and freight traffic between rail and
road is highly regulated by Government. The backbone of railway business
is the movement of bulk commodities, in particular phosphates. A fairly even
split exists between rail and common carrier road transport on other long
distance freight. The railways carry more long distance passengers than buses.
However, if transport by private passenger car and private trucks are taken
into account the market is almost equally divided between rail and road trans-
port.
2.06      In terms of areas served, the highway system is the principal
means of transportation in the country. Full details of the highway system
are given in Chapter III.
2.07      The railways are Government-owned and run by the Office National
des Chemins de Fer (ONCF). The ONOCF is a public corporation with legal
status and financial autonomy, under the jurisdiction of the Minister of
Public Works and Communications. The system is made up of 1,178 km of standard
gauge track, of which 730 km are electrified, including 161 km of double
track carrying phosphate from Khouribga to Casablanca.  The track in general
is in reasonable condition; however, rolling stock and locomotives, except
on the phosphate line, are inadequate for present traffic. The railways in
1969 carried 2,401 million ton-km of frelght and 506 million passenger-kilo-
meters.  Of the freight carried, 1,525 million ton-km (63%) were phosphates
(Table 1).  The volume of freight was relatively constant in the five years
prior to 1967 but since then has grown, at about 2.5% per annum through 1968,
thereafter at 10% per annum, due to increased phosphate traffic. Passenger
traffic has been relatively constartt in the last ten years.
2.08      The Goverrnment is contemplating a program of investments in the
1973-77 Plan, totalling DP, 123.4 million in rolling stock, locomotives and
some track renewal, excluding the phosphate Lines. The phosphate line is
financially prcfitable and is to receive investments of DP 27.7 million in
the new Five Year Plan. These profits subsidize other services which run
at a loss, notably passenger services.  Overall, the railways make a small
financial profit, although this is based on inadecuate provision for depre-
ciatlon of fixed vissets.
2.09      Morocco has six ports which handled in 1970 a total of 18.5 million
tons of cargo. The Port of Casablanca handled about 70% of this traffic
(Table 2).  Mobammedia, just 25 km north of Casablanca, handled a further
10% of the tonnage, mainly in petroleumn. Tangier in the north is mainly a
passenger port for the Europe tourist traffic. The other three ports are on
the Atlantic Coast at Kenitra, Safi and Agadir, the last two serving the
southern section of the country. The ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia
are administered by a separate Director of Ports, while the others are
administered by Divisions of the Ministry of Public Works and Coumunications
(MPWC) (para. 3.07). The Government is considering establishing an autono-
mous port authority for all ports.



-4-
2.10      Present port capacity is adequate and operations are efficient.
Some renewal and reconstruction at: Casablanca, new passenger loading facilities
at Tangier and expanded facilities for the fishing fleet at Agadir are re-
quired in the near future, but no major port improvements are needed for about
five years when the port basin at Casablanca may require extension. The Five
Year Plan proposes Dh 250 million in investments to meet these requirements,
which is reasonable.
2.11      Morocco is served by eight airports with regularly scheduled
flights; six airports have international flights but only three (Casablanca,
Rabat and Agadir), can serve transoceanic flights (Boeing 707's). Besides
these main airports there are a number of smaller airports and airfields.
The Government plans to raise the standard of the airports at Tangier and Fes
to accommodate transoceanic flights in support of the expansion of the tourist
industry. The country is served by its own international airline, Royal Air
Maroc (RAM) with 4 Caravelle and 2 Boeing 727-200 aircraft providing service
to Europe. The importance of air transport in Morocco is closely linked with
the growth of the tourist industry which accounts for about 90% of total
passengers in recent years. Total air passenger traffic increased by 11.5%
annually during 1962-1970 to over one million. RAM carried about one-third
of all passenger traffic in 1970. Domestic routes are served by Royal Air
Inter (RAI) which is owned by RAM, ONCF (the railways) and the Office National
des Transports (ONT government trucking agents and controllers). The country
has air reciprocity agreements with 22 other countries. Airport administration
and regulation of the airways are carried out by a separate agency, the
Direction de l'Air of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications.
B.   Planning, Financing and Coordination
2.12      Transport policy aims to almost totally control public services
and to restrict private services which may compete with the public sector.
The principal agency charged with the implementation of this policy is the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications. This Ministry is responsible
for civil aviation, ports and hydraulic works, the road network and control
of six public enterprises 1/ (Chart 'World Bank 7380).
2.13      Government control over transport is most strict in the rail/road
freight market; the MPWC through the Office National des Transports (ONT)
controls the licenses for common carrier trucks, determines freight rates
and fares for rail ana road transport, assigns cargoes directly to road
common carriers, and issues and collects the bilis for services rendered by
these carriers. Furthermore, trucks which can be freely purchased cannot
exceed 5.5 tons capacity and can be used only for own-account trucking. As
a result of the regulations restricting supply and rates calculated on a
I/   National Office of Transport (ONT), National Office of Electricity (ONE),
National Office of Railways (ONCF), Royal Air Maroc (RAM), Cargo
Administration of the Port of Casablanca (RAPC), National Office for
Drinking Water (ONEP).



ton-km basis, the road common carriers concentrate on lcng distance bulk
hauls, while private operators without a licence concentrate on short heul
freight. The consultants of the Transport Survey (para. 2.14) have recommend-
ed complete deregulation of the industry. The existing system is costly to
the Moroccan economy. It causes high freight rates than under a competitive
situation. In addition it results in low utilization of equipment and facili-
ties which are foreign exchange intensive investments; loss of development
impact of entrepreneurial training provided for small firms in the trucking
industry; use of scarce Government expertise to administer the regulations
when it could be employed elsewhere; and restriction of innovations in res-
ponse to changing shipper needs. The Bank has opened discussions with the
Government on deregulation. The MPWC recognizes the problem and is taking
an active interest in the matter. The MPWC is seeking information from other
countries, notably France and has started its own study of this issue. Three
experts, to be financed under the proposed project, will assist the MPWC
with this study. All interested parties in Morocco, including users and
private unlicenced carriers, are to meet at a Government-sponsored colloquium
in March 1974 to decide on a strategy to improve the service provided by the
industry. During negotiations the Government agreed to continue the dialogue
with the Bank on the deregulation issue.
2.14      The MPWC is responsible for preparing the initial Five Year Plarn
proposals for the transport sector as a whole as well as for individual modes.
These are then discussed with the Secretariat General of the Plan, attached
to the Prime Minister's office, and adjusted as necessary to the overall Plan.
Collaboration between the Secretariat and the MPWC is arranged formally by
way of commissions. The Plan for 1973-77 has been approved at a total of
DH 1,221 million which represents a 60% increase over the previous plan. It
was formulated partly on the results of the Transport Survey and provides a
reasonable plan of investment. The survey was carried out by Bureau Central
d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM) (France) in 1970-71 under
the First Highway Project; it covered the roads, railways and ports, including
traffic forecasts, investment requirements and organization of the administra-
tion. It included feasibility studies for the Casablanca-Rabat expressway,
to be financed in this project and the feasibility study of the Kenitra-Larache
road.  The recommendations in each mode have been discussed with the Government
who is considering their implementation.
2.15      The planning mechanism is by and large satisfactory, and the
evaluation of projects is based increasingly on economic considerations.
However, the Second and the Fifth Offices in the Technical Division of the
MPWC (World Bank Chart 7380), which are responsible for preparing the trans-
port plan proposals and follow-up, lack sufficient supporting staff to dis-
charge their responsibilities satisfactorily, especially for the economic
evaluation of projects.  To improve the situation, the project provides for
the establishment of a small transportation planning unit, to be attached to
the Fifth Office, with technical assistance consisting of a highway traffic
engineer, a railway engineer and a transporz economist.  This unit will also
be responsible for liaison with the Secretariat General of the Plan (para 4.12).



-6-
2.16      All transport infrastructure investments are financed from general
public funds; Morocco applies the concept of "domaine public" to its trans-
port infrastructure so that only operating costs are considered to be assess-
able to users. However, annual revenue from highway user charges is about
four times total highway expenditures. Railways and ports generate revenues
which approximately equal their operating costs.
III. HIGHWAYS
A.  The Network
3.01      The highway network is classified in:  primary (Routes Principales),
secondary (Routes Secondaires) and tertiary (Chemins Tertiaires) roads
(Table 3). The network is well developed, consisting of some 51,500 km of
roadways of which about 21,500 km are paved and further 4,000 km are con-
structed earthroads of good serviceability, the remainder are tracks. Most
of the network is concentrated in the plain between the Atlas mountain ranges
and the Atlantic Ocean.
3.02      The total length of the network has remained stationary at 51,500
km over the last 13 years; however, the asphalted portion has increased from
15,600 km in 1959 (30%) to 21,500 km in 1972 (40%), mostly by asphalting the
most important tertiary roads. Asphaltic pavements vary from bituminous
surface treatment on secondary and tertiary roads to asphaltic concrete for
most primary roads and a large part of the secondary roads. Legal restrictions
on vehicle weights (maximum axle-load is 13 ton) and dimensions are adequate
and are being enforced.
3.03      While the present network is generally adequate in coverage and
length, its design characteristics are becoming insufficient to handle the
growing traffic: alignments are often tortuous with many curves and low
visibility, many roads are narrow because they were designed many years ago
for light traffic volumes, and pavement thickness is insufficient for present
traffic and pavements are breaking up. Under the First Highway Project
certain heavily travelled trunk roads were modernized and light and aging
pavements were strengthened. The proposed project will continue to assist
the Government in improving and modernizing the network so as to avoid rising
congestion and accident rates, and to reduce maintenance expenses and
transportation costs.
B,   Road Traffic
3.04      The vehicle fleet, fuel consumption and traffic on the road net-
work as a whole have grown since 1965 at an average annual rate of about 6%;
the traffic growth on main roads was somewhat higher than the national average
and varied between 7% and 10% annually (Tables 4-5).  The exact number of
vehicles in circulation is not known, because discarded vehicles are not re-
corded systematically. In 1970, the total number of vehicles was estimated
at about 250,000 to 300,000 including 28% of heavy vehicles. This corresponds



- 7 -
to about 12 to 15 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants, which is on the high side
for a country with a GNP per capita of US$200 to US$250. The number of
small passenger cars and trucks under 5.5 tons capacity has grown more rapidly
than that of the heavier vehicles. The growth in small cars, relative to
large cars, has been primarily supported by the domestic small car assembly
industry, which is protected by high duties on imported vehicles. The growth
in trucks under 5.5 tons capacity results from the capacity limit on trucks
that can be freely purchased for private use (pata. 2.13). In the light of
past trends in road traffic and continued growth of about 5% annually in GDP
the volume of road traffic in terms of ton-km is expected to increase about
6% annually for the country as a whole, and about 7% to 10% annually on
main roads.
3.05      The distribution of traffic on the network continues to produce
the heaviest traffic concentration on the trunk roads of the northern half
of the Atlantic coastal plain, with the roads in the Casablanca-Rabat corridor
carrying in 1972 Average Daily Traffic (ADT) of 8,000 vehicles. A majority
of the other main roads in the Atlantic coastal plain have ADTs above
2,000 vehicles. All other rural roads carry lower traffic volumes. Traffic
statistics have improved but for certain roads are still distorted by the
location of permanent counting stations too close to urban areas. These
counting stations are being moved to more appropriate locations and continued
overall improvement in data collection is expected. Urban traffic, especially
in Casablanca and Rabat, is becoming congested; the problems this causes, es-
pecially with respect to through traffic, are to be studied under this project
(para. 4.09).
C.   Administration
3.06      The MPWC has large responsibilities for the transportation system
as a whole (para 2.12), including the maintenance and development of the
primary and secondary road network, To discharge its responsibilities for
the highway network, the MPWC relied until recently primarily on two regional
offices, each headed by a Chief Engineer: Public Works North (PWN) in Rabat
and Public Works South (PWS) in Casablanca. For highway planning, project
preparation and supervision the MPWC relies on one of its technical offices
at headquarters (para 2.15). The 2 regional offices supervised between them
9 field divisions, with 35 subdivisions. The divisions and subdivisions are
headed by engineers supported by technicians. The engineers in charge are
competent, most have been trained abroad, and they are also assisted by sev-
eral expatriate engineers.
3.07      The organization of the MPWC placed a heavy burden on the Secretary
General, who besides his responsibilities for other departments, was charged
with the day-to-day supervision and coordination of PWN and PWS. During
1972, BCEOM carried out a study of the highway organization within the MPWC.
It found that the present organization is generally sound, but recommended
establishing a Directorate for Roads to relieve the Secretary General in
day-to-day administration, and abolish PWS and PWN. This recommendation. has
been accepted by the Government and a Director has recently been appointed
and the regional offices have been abolished.



-8-
3.08      1ajor contracts for construction are awarded by the MPWC, minor
contracts of up to DH 200,000 (about US$50,000 equivalent) by the Director
of Roads. The nine divisions administer and supervise project execution, with
the assistance in the field of the subdivisions. The latter also render tech-
nical assistance to local authorities who are responsible for the construction
and maintenance of local roads. These arrangements are satisfactory.
D.   Planning and Financing
3,09      The planning mechanism is explained in Chapter Il.  Preliminary
estimates indicate that total highway expenditures during the last Plan
Period 1968-72, including construction of Agadir-Marrakech road financed
under the First Highway Project, amounted to DH 215 million (US$51 million);
of this total, about DH 50 million was for agricultural feeder roads, DH 50
million for tertiary roads, DH 42 million for the Agadir-Marrakech road,
DH 40 mi'lion for the rehabilitation and improvement of existing roads, and
the remainder for tourist roads and new roads construction (Table 6). This
distribution of investment is reasonable and reflects the needs for the
different types of road. It indicates that the Government, using economic
priorities, is devoting a major share of highway investments to feeder and
other local roads and that modernization of existing roads is not being ne-
glected for the benefit of new construction.  Due to overall budgetary and
monetary constraints, however, total expenditures were on the low side and
a backlog of investments for road improvements has accumulated.
3.10      The Five Year Plan for 1973-77 has been approved; investments planned
in the highway sector amount to DH 412 million (US$105 million equivalent)
which is about a 50% increase over the actual investments of the previous
Five Year Plan. The objectives of the new Plan reflect the results of the
recommendations of the recent transport survey conducted by BCEOM. The
planned investments are adequate.
E.  Construction
3.11      The MPWC does not as a matter of policy undertake departmental
construction of roads. All construction, reconstruction and improvement
works are carried out by contractors. Contracts for such works are awarded
after competitive bidding of prequalified bidders. For smaller contracts
bidding is open to all contractors, who are qualified on the presentation
of their bids. Morocco has about 20 local contractors, but only six have
the equipment and technical personnel to carry out major construction con-
tracts. Most of the contractors are affiliated or cooperate closely with
foreign enterprises; joint ventures are common practice. No restrictions
prevent or impede foreign contractors from working in Morocco.
3,12      The Moroccan road construction industry includes a number of small
conitractors who use labor almost exclusively and work mostly on periodic
maintenance or as subcontractors for larger contractors on construction.
An additional feature of the industry is the Government-sponsored "Promotion
Nationale" which provides the equivalent of about 26,000 full time jobs
annually on technically simple road projects with high inputs of unskilled
labor, such as the reconstruction of tertiary roads.



-9-
F.   Maintenance
3.13      Periodic maintenance such as resealing of pavements is normally
carried out by contractors under so-called "marches generaux". This con-
tract type usually covers all repair works and material supplies within a
certain area; it is based on unit prices and approximate quantities but does
not fix in advance the exact site of the works. It is awarded after compet-
itive bidding. Unit prices and quantities are estimated by MPWC and the
contractors are asked to bid in the form of a percentage of the priced
estimate. The maintenance bid can be below or above the MPWC estimate, but
bids 10% above or 30% below the estimate are discarded.
3.14      Routine maintenance on primary and secondary roads is carried
out by the subdivisions with their own forces. While routine maintenance
techniques are satisfactory, the fleet of maintenance equipment is inade-
quate. Under the First Highway Project, a start was made to improve the
fleet with purchases of the most urgently needed equipment. The proposed
project will continue this process by providing for additional purchases
to replace equipment over ten years old or obsolete as recommended by BCEOM
in their study on highway organizations.
3.15      Under the First Highway Project, an equipment depreciation account-
ing system was introduced and is now functioning satisfactorily. This
accounting system will be an important input for determining future renewals
of each piece of equipment. To improve the system further, Government will
introduce full cost accounting of all types of maintenance operations, includ-
ing the cost of equipment in each operation.
3.16      Until 1971, all heavy equipment was purchased and administered
by a public enterprise, Regie des Exploitations Industrielles (REI), which
was attached to the MPWC. It operated on a pool basis for all the equipment
of the entire Ministry; highway divisions and subdivision could rent civil
engineering equipment when needed. This arrangement did not satisfy the
needs of the various departments and, in 1972, the agency was split into
the water supply agency, Office National pour les Eaux Potables (ONEP), and
the civil engineering equipment pool, Service Travaux Publics (STP). BCEOM
in their study on highway organization (para 3.07) recommended that STP
should be transferred from REI, with equipment and personnel, to the highway
directorate established in the MPWC (para 3.07) and become the_Central Highway  k
Equipment Division. However, the Government has not yet taken a decision and
the Director for Roads therefore has decided as an interim solution to create
his own Central Equipment Division. This division will administer and super-
vise all equipment in the divisions and subdivisions, carry out periodic
inspections of equipment in the field as well as major repairs and overhauls
at its central workshops. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
the Government that a Central Equipment Division will be established within
the Directorate for Roads by December 31, 1974.



- 10 -
3.17      Maintenance expenditures have increased over recent years from
about DH 41.5 million in 1968, when the Bank discussed the First Highway
Project, to DH 48.9 million in 1971 (Table 7). Thus the average expendi-
tures per km on the primary and secondary network increased from about
US$670 in 1968 to US$770 in 1971, which is adequate.
G.   Training
3.18      The Fourth Office of the Technical Division in MPWC supervises and
initiates training of technical assistants, construction supervisors and
equipment operators.  Technical assistants and construction supervisors are
trained through courses at the engineering college at Mohammedia, while
equipment operators take refresher courses at STP and at the Central Equip-
ment Division as soon as the latter has been established. The level of
training is satisfactory.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The principal objectives of the proposed project are:  to improve
traffic conditions on main roads as well as some secondary roads, mostly in
the Atlantic corridor, and in the urban areas of Casablanca and Rabat, to
improve highway maintenance, and to assist the MPWC in strengthening trans-
port planning. Specifically, the project consists of:
(i)  construction of two lanes of the uncompleted part (33 km)
of Primary Road 36 (RP 36);
(ii)  improvement of sections, totalling 679 km, of 17 primary
and secondary roads;
(iii) purchases of highway maintenance equipment;
(iv) traffic studies by consultants in the towns of Casablanca
and Rabat;
(v)  technical assistance by consultants to MPWC for the
establishment of a transportation planning office; and
(vi) retroactive financing of detailed engineering by consultants.
(a)  Construction of RP 36
4.02      All traffic between Casablanca, the commercial center of the
country, and Rabat, the capital, must use the plain bordered by the Atlantic
in the northwest and by the rugged terrain of the hills in the southeast.
In a broader sense, all traffic between the south and north of Morocco has
to use this corridor of maximum 5 km in width.



- 11 -
4.03      At present, this corridor is served by a railway and two roads, one
near the coast and one inland. Both roads pass through a number of small
towns, villages and urban settlements and have poor design characteristics.
In 1972, the ADT between Casablanca and Mohammedia was 11,000 vehicles and
between Mohanmedia and Rabat 8,000 vehicles. This traffic has been increasing
by about 11% annually. The coastal road serves the recreational resorts
along the coastline, which is being urbanized rapidly. Its alignment is poor,
limiting travel speeds. Therefore, the more inland road carries most of the
through traffic between the two centers, although its design standards are
also poor and four narrow bridges over major rivers impede the traffic, two
old suspension bridges have a maximum load capacity of 2.5 tons. In view of
the poor traffic conditions on these two roads, the Government in the late
1950's decided to link both cities through a modern expressway.
4.04      Since then, a 28 km section of a two-lane highway (RP 36), bypassing
or paralleling the two suspension bridges on the inland road at the Rabat end,
has been completed as part of the expressway. At the Casablanca end, a
section of 6.8 km has been constructed with four lanes, and an adjoining
5 km long section with two lanes.
4.05      Completion of the expressway will be carried out in three phases:
Phase "A" consists of the completion of the missing link of about 33 km of
the two-lane highway RP 36, including two interchanges, three overpasses and
one underpass for the future expressway. The proposed project covers Phase "A"
only. Phase "B" covers the completion of the two lanes about 38 km long,
parallel to Phase "A", including construction of two interchanges and one
overpass; and Phase "C" the construction of two lanes, about 28 km long,
parallel to the existing RP 36 at the Rabat end, including two interchanges
and three overpasses. Phases "B" and "C" will be undertaken in a few years,
probably by 1980, depending on traffic growth. The expressway will run 2 to
3 km inland from the coast and therefore will not affect the environment along
the coast.
(b) Road Improvement Works
4.06      Table 8 indicates the sections, totalling 679 km on 12 primary
and 5 secondary roads (with a total length of about 4,300 km) which, based
on economic priority, have been selected by the Government for improvement
under the project (Map IBRD 10341). These sections represent a major part
of the road improvements to be undertaken during the first three years of
the Five Year Plan. As a result of increasing traffic and insufficient pave-
ment thickness, a large number of sections, ranging from 1 to 15 km, are
beginning to deteriorate and require urgent rehabilitation. Realignments are
needed on sections totalling 213 km and widening on 220 km. Engineering has
been completed by the Divisions in the field and is satisfactory.
(c) Purchases of Highway Maintenance Equipment
4.07      Under the First Highway Project, maintenance equipment at a cost of
about US$3.0 million was purchased to renew part of the most urgently needed
equipment. A further list of equipment for urgent renewal, together with spare
parts costing US$2.4 million, is included in the project (Table 9) (para. 3.14).



- 12 -
(d) Urban Traffic and Transport Studies in the Towns of Casablanca
and Rabat
4.08      In view of the proposed expressway's implications on the urban
traffic patterns in Casablanca and Rabat, the project includes two urban
traffic and transport studies. At the Casablanca end of the expressway, the
complex traffic dispersal problems would be the main focus of the studies.
In the absence of a comprehensive urban traffic framework for the urban area
of Casablanca, it is not felt desirable to establish a full scale urban trans-
port plan at this stage. The studies would therefore examine broad lines of
traffic dispersal and major conflicts to be resolved over the short run, i.e.
within five years, in order to ensure that expressway traffic does not impose
additional burdens on the urban street network. These studies would also
focus on any short term improvements that would need to be brought about in
the traffic patterns in Casablanca, as well as on any needed infrastructure
investments.
4.09      At the Rabat end of the expressway, the studies would focus on the
likely methods of traffic dispersal from the expressway, the technical and
economic feasibility of any bypass routes needed to divert through traffic,
and on the establishment of a longer term transport plan for the urban area
of Rabat, in the context of ongoing Master Plan work. The study approach
in Rabat would examine both short and medium term needs and make recommenda-
tions on the desirable phasing of future transport infrastructure investments
in the Rabat area. It would review deficiencies in the public transport
system and propose remedial measures in the context of future planned growth
in Rabat. The studies would also form a potential link with proposed urban
extension projects in the Rabat area for which the Government is likely to
request Bank Group financing.
4.10      Both studies will be carried out with the assistance of consultants
as a joint effort of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications, the
Ministry of Urbanism, Housing and Environment, and the Municipalities of
Casablanca and Rabat. Draft terms of reference for the studies are now being
prepared and reviewed by all parties concerned. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained from Government that it will designate, by the end of 1973,
the agency/agencies responsible for hiring consultants and executing the studies
and that it will ensure proper coordination of the study's data base.
4.11      No major congestion problems exist as yet at both ends of the
project expressway, but they are likely to arise by or even before 1980
depending on traffic growth. Therefore, during negotiations, assurances
were obtained that Government will review the findings of the urban traffic
and transport studies with the Bank and undertake arrangements and improve-
ments needed to ensure reasonable dispersal of traffic from the project
expressway.



- 13 -
(e) Technical Assistance
4.12      To improve its own planning on transport investments, the MPWC
has requested technical assistance, consisting of a highway traffic engineer,
a railway engineer and a transport economist to be recruited from a consult-
ing firm (para 2.15). These experts will assist the MPWC for a total of 5
man-years in establishing a small transport planning office, initiate opera-
tions and train Moroccan counterparts.
(f) Retroactive Financing
4.13      The Transport Survey under the First Highway Project included
feasibility studies for the construction of an expressway between Casablanca
and Rabat, and the Kenitra-Larache road along the Atlantic coast. These
studies indicated that construction of both highways would yield satisfactory
Economic Returns and the Government decided, and the Bank agreed, to go ahead
with detailed engineering. BCEOM started in January 1972, with the engineer-
ing on the Casablanca-Rabat expressway and the Italian consulting firm, SAUTI,
with the Kenitra-Larache road in May 1972. These detailed engineering studies
were intended to be financed from surplus funds under the First Highway Project;
however, through quantity increases in the construction and improvement works
under that project and particularly by the first devaluation of the US dollar
in December 1971, the expected surplus funds were depleted. The project,
therefore, includes the retroactive financing as of January 1, 1972, of the
foreign exchange component of the studies amounting to about US$1.3 million.
4.14      Construction of the Casablanca-Rabat and Kenitra-Larache roads was
expected to be included in the proposed project. Due to budgetary limitations,
however, construction of the latter has been postponed and deleted from the
project.
B.   Cost Estimate and Foreign Exchange Component
4.15      The project cost, including contingency allowances, is estimated
at US$43.3 million, including a foreign exchange component of US$29 million,
or 67% of the total, and is summarized in the table on page 14.  Details of
the cost of highway improvement works and maintenance equipment are shown
in Tables 8 and 9, respectively.
4.16      The cost of construction of RP 36 is derived from detailed engineer-
ing and estimates by BCEOM. The cost of the highway improvement works is
based on detailed quantity estimates by the MPWC and unit prices for similar
works recently carried out and financed under the First Highway Project. The
costs of consulting services for the urban traffic and transport studies and
for technical assistance are based on previous or present consulting engineering
contracts in Morocco; the costs for detailed engineering studies for retroactive
financing on actual contracts with consulting firms; the cost of the highway
maintenance project equipment on recent prices for similar equipment delivered
in Morocco. The cost estimates are satisfactory and have been confirmed during
negotiations.



Foreign
Exchange,
Project Element            Local Foreign  Total   Local FPea4ggn  Total    Ocmponent
- DH million ----    ----- us$ .mi,l,ion ---
1. Completion of con-
struction of RP30        19.8     36.7  56.5      5.1     9.4   14.5          65
B. Highway improvement
works                    19.5     36.3  55.8    5.o        9.3    2.1403      65
1. Urban traffic and
transport studies
in Casablanca and
Rabat                     1.4      4.6    6.o     0.3      1.1     1.4        80
D. Retroactive financing
for Casablanca-Rabat
expressway and Kenitra-
Larache road              1.3      5.1    6.4    0.3      1.3    1.6          80
Purchase of mainte-
nance equipment           3.2      9.3  12.5      0.9      24      3.3        73
F. Technical assistance      0.5      2.4    2,9     0;2     086                $
w. Contingency allowance     9.7    19.3   2,80      2.-5    4.9     7.4
Total Project Cost    55.4   113.5  368R.    14.3-                         67
a/ 10% for physical overrdih  on items A throitgh C and F, 13% fo ptice escalation
on items A and B, and 8.  for pric*iea6i ation on items 4; E9, anid ye



- 15 -
4.17      A 10% physical contingency allowance has been included for con-
struction, highway improvement work and consulting services (except for the
detailed engineering studies proposed for retroactive financing) to cover
increases in quantities and man-months respectively. Contingencies of 13%
for price increases, corresponding to annual increases of 5% for both local
and foreign costs, have been allowed for highway construction and improve-
ment works based on an estimated duration of three years, whereas an 8.5%
price variation is included for consulting services and equipment supply
since they are estimated to be completed within 18 months.
4.18      It is expected that the highway construction and improvement work
will be carried out by a joint venture of local and foreign contractors, and
on this basis, BCEOM have estimated the foreign exchange component to be 65%.
The foreign exchange component for consulting services corresponds to foreign
exchange payments amounting to 80% of the total cost; the remaining 20% covers
local housing, travel, and wages. The foreign exchange component of highway
maintenance equipment corresponds to the CIF value, which is estimated at 73%
of its total cost; the remaining 27% covers import duties, port charges and
local transport and handling costs.
C.   Execution
4.19      The MPWC, assisted by consultants, will be responsible for carry-
ing out the entire project: the MPWC will supervise the construction and
improvement works, for which it is staffed adequately; and qualified consult-
ants will undertake the traffic and transport studies and the technical
assistance, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.20      Bidding documents for construction of RP 36 have been prepared by
BCEOM, those for highway improvement works have been completed by the NPWC,
and those for equipment supply are being prepared by MPWC. Contracts will
be awarded after international competitive bidding according to the Bank
Group "Guidelines for Procurement". For the highway improvement works the
whole three-year program will be advertised once with notification to the
local representatives of Bank member countries and Switzerland, each specific
lot or lots thereafter, will be notified to all those who have expressed
interest. Bidding documents will leave the choice of the labor and equipment
mix to the bidders, however, it is anticipated that the smaller contracts
for the improvement works will be won by local contractors who have a more
labor-intensive organization than big contractors. To make bidding attractive
to both local and foreign firms, the construction works will be divided into
lots while improvement works will be grouped geographically, and contractors
will be allowed to bid for one or more lots, separately or in combination.
Contracts will vary in size from a low of US$0.2 million equivalent, to a
high of US$5.0 million equivalent. Morocco has no preferential tariff
influencing contract awards.



- 16 -
4.21      Both highway construction and improvement works are scheduled to
start in the first half of 1974 and be completed by the end of 1976. The
contracts for maintenance equipment will provide for one-third to be delivered
during the second half of 1974 and the rest by the middle of 1975. Consulting
services will start in the beginning of 1974 and be completed 18 months later,
i.e. end of 1975. During negotiations, the Government and the Bank have dis-
cussed and agreed on the timing of project execution and reporting requirements.
D.   Financing
4.22      The project contains elements suitable for UNDP financing, but
the Government has decided to use available UNDP funds for sectors other
than transport and has asked the Bank to help finance the entire project.
A Bank loan in the amount of US$29 million, with a term of 20 years, includ-
ing four years of grace, is proposed to cover the foreign exchange component
of the project. The Government will cover the local cost. During negotia-
tions, an assurance has been obtained from the Government to this effect.
E.   Disbursement
4.23      Disbursements from the Loan Account will be made on the basis of:
65% of expenditures for the construction and highway improvement program;
80% of expenditures for the consulting services; the c.i.f. cost of mainte-
nance equipment, including spare parts; and in the case of locally assembled
equipment 73% of total expenditures. Based on the foregoing and on the
schedule for project execution (para 4.21) an Estimated Schedule of Disburse-
ments has been prepared (Annex A). The Government and the Bank have discussed
and agreed on the schedule during negotiations and also discussed ways to
expedite contractor payments and withdrawals from the Loan. Surplus funds
remaining in the Loan Account after the project has been completed may be
used, with the agreement of the Bank, for additional purchases of maintenance
equipment or improvement works.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The proposed project is a key element of the Government's develop-
ment plan for the road network and supports the Bank Group's lending strategy
by institution building and improving road transport for agricultural ex-
ports and tourism. In particular, the project is designed to improve several
roads, mostly in the coastal plain, which carry high traffic volumes, in-
cluding a major part of agricultural exports and tourist traffic (para 2.02).
As a result of traffic growth and relatively low investments in recent years,
these roads are in poor condition and below standard for present traffic. The
project continues the replacement of obsolete maintenance equipment begun in
the First Highway Project. The project also includes urban transport studies
for Casablanca and Rabat, to recommend orderly dispersal arrangements for the
traffic at both ends of the expressway, and which should also help pave the



17 -
way for an urban development project to relieve slum conditions in unplanned
urban settlements.  As to institution building, the project provides for
significant organizational reforms in the MPWC, establishment of a central
equipment pool, as well as improvements in overall transport and project
planning, and staff training.
B.   Roadworks
5.02      The roadworks in the project are designed to complete the first
phase of the Casablanca-Rabat expressway and to improve 17 road sections
with a total length of 679 km. In 1976 when the expressway is opened, the
Casablanca-Rabat corridor will have an ADT of about 11,000 vehicles, and
expected to grow at 8.5% annually during the 20 year economic life of the
expressway (Table 11). This traffic is now poorly served by two existing
roads, (paras 4.02-4.06), especially the through traffic which accounts for
over 80% of total traffic.  All through traffic will transfer to the express-
way as soon as the first phase will have been completed. The road sections
scheduled for improvement will also carry relatively high traffic volumes,
ranging from a maximum ADT of over 10,000 vehicles on the Agadir-Ait Melloul
section to a minimum ADT of about 800 vehicles on the RPI-niani Berkani
road (Table 12). Traffic growth on these sections varies from 7% to 15%
annually during the 20 years of economic life. The traffic growth projections
are based on past trends, origin and destination surveys, and forecasts of
major economic developments up to 1985 in the area served by each road. These
projections are satisfactory.
5.03      Several alternatives were considered to determine the best sequence
and timing of construction of the Casablanca-Rabat expressway, including
immediate construction of four lanes and stage construction as well as alter-
natives for at-grade crossings and grade-separated crossings. For this pur-
pose the traffic in the corridor was assigned to alternative routes oln the
basis of unit trip costs, using speed/flow relations derived fronm data in
the Transport Survey by BCEOM. The analysis shows that a new facility will
be needed before 1977 to avoid a sharp increase in transport costs and that
stage construction would be more economical than the immediate construction
of four lanes. At-grade crossings were eliminated as the least attractive
solution because they would significantly reduce safety standards and traffic
capacities of the expressway. All grade-separated crossings for the project
expressway would yield high first-year benefits. Interchanges have been pro-
vided when justified by additional benefits to traffic entering and leaving
the expressway. As to road improvements, they have been divided into two
separate categories: pavement strengthening and road widening; each type of
improvement has been evaluated separately for each section.
5.04      Quantified benefits from the roadworks are based on lower accident,
and transport costs, including salaries and wages of professional drivers and
assistants (Tables 11, 12 and Annex B). Accident rates are high in Morocco
because road standards are low, travel speeds are relatively high, and the
traffic is often a mixture of fast and slow moving vehicles. Accident cost
savings are based on average indemnities paid by insurance companies and
accident and traffic statistics over more than ten years on the roads in the



18 -
coastal plain. Estimates of maintenance costs are derived from actual ex-
penditures on maintenance in recent years, and' transport costs on surveys by
BCEOM in the transport survey of trucking enterprises and private car owners.
The economic cost of the works cover right-of-way and detailed engineering
as well as construction and supervision.
5.05      The quantified benefits will accrue in the first instance to road
users. Over 50% of total benefits will accrue to trucks because trucks
account for 25% to 40% total traffic on the project roads and the benefits
per truck are more than twice those per light vehicle. Almost 10% of the
benefits will accrue to international tourist traffic. These benefits are
expected to eventually accrue to the economy as a whole. Furthermore, a
significant proportion of the remaining traffic is for administrative and
business purposes.
5.06      Quantified benefits from the expressway are estimated to yield an
Economic Return (ER) of 16% (Table 11). First-year benefits, as a percentage
of construction cost, are estimated to be 11%. Sensitivity tests show that
the ER would be 12% if construction costs were 20% higher than the best
estimate, or if benefits were 25% lower. The ER would be higher, if time
savings for passengers in cars and buses had been quantified as benefits.
In this case, the ER on the expressway would be 20%, assuming that passen-
ger time is valued at 30% of the average wages of truck drivers and assis-
tants.
5.07      The investments in road improvements are estimated to yield a
combined ER of 62%. For individual sections the ER's range from 17% as a
minimum to over 100% (Table 12), which indicates that these works have high
economic priority and are in fact overdue. The ERs for pavement strengthen-
ing have been calculated for two different types of benefits:  one as savings
in transport costs and the other as avoided costs of reconstruction. Only
the lower type benefit estimate and corresponding ERs have been retained for
each section.
C.   Other Pro'ect Elements
5.08      The purchases of road maintenance equipmer.t under the project
would yield important savings in maintenance, repair and operating costs
of overage vehicles.  Recorded cost data by the HPWC show that total equip-
ment costs would be minimized if vehicles were replaced about every seven
years. Since the vehicles to be replaced are over 10 years old, the pur-
c -ase of new vehicles is well 'ustified Lqually important, the new vehicles
would reduce down-time and interruptions in maintenance operations, thereby
increasing overall efficiency in road maintenance.
5.09      Although benefits from technical assistance, the urban transport
studies, and detailed engineering nave not been quantified, these project
elements are clearly justified by improved transport planning, better project
preparation, and on-the-job training for some staff of the MPWC. These
benefits will accrue to the Government.



- 19 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues discussed in
Chapters II, III and IV, based on the expected economic life of the road
sections to be improved or constructed the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$29.0 miillion to the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco for a
20-year term, including 4 years of grace.
November 6, 1973






TABLE 1
APPRAISAL OF
A S3COND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
'Railway Traffic, 1959-69
Number of                    Average      Tons of            1/   Average
Year   Passengers   Passenger-km    Distance    freightl/   Ton-km       Distance
thousand      million         km         thousand   million        ko
1959      4,095          462           113       11,338        1,611       143
1960      3,847          477          123        12,002        1,750       146
1961      3,804          476          125        12,391        1,830       148
1962      3,831          483          126        12,362        1,821       148
1963      3,920          487          124        12,404        1,801       145
1964      4,046          524          130        14,074        2,013       143
1965      3,685          471          128        15,430        2,027       132
1966      3,551          450          127        16,203        2,211       136
1967      3,270          423          129        16,776        2,338       139
1968      3,331          457          137        17,544        2,412       137
1969      3,660          506          138        17,562        2,401       137
% Average Annual Growth Rate
Period
1959-69    -1.1           0.9          2.0          4.5           4.1      -0.9
1/ Excludes express luggage and parcel post.
Source:  Bureau Central d'Etudes Outre Mer, Transport Study, 1971
November 6, 1973



TABLE 2
APPRAS3AL OF
A SECOND hIGEWAY Pr.TJECT
MOSCCO
Port Traffic at Casablanca and Tangier, 1965-69
Casablanca                       Tangier
Year            Imports       Ecports          Imports       Exports
------- thousand tons -----------------
1965            1,771         10,200           114           434
1966            2,018         10,722           157           462
1967            2,240         11,077           161           457
1968            2,330         11,418           10o8          359
1969            2,097         11,797            90           342
% Average Annual Growth Rate
Period
1965-69          4.3             3.7           -6.1          -6.2
Source: Bursau Central d'Etudes Outre Mer, Transport Study, 1971
Nov-sn-ber 6, 1973



TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
Highway Network, by Classification, 1972
Classification                   Paved     Unpaved      Tracks      Total
------------ -------  km   -----------------
Primary                           7,119       29          471       7,619
Secondary                        5,,840      482          963       7,285
Tertiary                          8,618    3,000       25,011      36,629
Total                         21,577    3,511       26,1j5      51,533
---------------- -  of  Total  ------------
42       7            51        100
Source: Ministry of Pablic Works and Comaunications, December 1972
November 6, 1973



TABLE 4
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGhWAY PROJECT
IMOROCCO
Motor Vehicle Fleet, 1965-70
Trucks
and     Tractor-             Miscell-
Year      Cars    Buses    Vans     Trailers   Tankers   aneous 1/  Total    Index
-------------------------------- Units -
1965    163,201  3,195    58,243     2,459        266       435     227,799    100
1966    168,602  3,324    61,276     2,712        270       445     236,629    104
1967    178,388  3,453    63,781     2,945        280       453     249,300    109
1968    189,485  3,611    66,252     3,312        294       458     263,412    116
1969    201,097  3,558    68,961     3,703        299       456     278,074    122
1970    222,460  3,849    74,454     4,769        342       505     306,379    134
1/ Includes vehicles such as ambulances.
Source: Ministry of Pablic Works and Communications, December 1972, and
Bureau Central dtEtudes Outre MCr, Transport Survey 1971
November 6, 1973



TABE  5
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
Motor Vehicle Fuel ConsumDtion, 1965-70
Year        Gasoline          Index         Diesel           Index
tons                          tons
1965        243,600            100         211,750            100
1966        236,300             97         23h,500            ill
1967        249,900            103         255,780            121
1968        274,600            113         262,710            124
1969        288,200            118         293,650            139
1970        311,100            128         323,820            153
% Average Annual Crowth Rate
Period
1965-70         5.1                             8.2             --
-- means not applicable.
Note: The increase in diesel consumption relative to gasoline results
from the Government's policy of holding the price of diesel fuel
low while applying heavy taxes to gasoline.
Source: Ministry of Public W4orks and Communications, December 1972
November 6, 1973



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHi{AY PROJECT
MOROCCO
Highway Investment Plans, 1965-72
Investments
Primary and
Secondary    Tertiary   Feeder   Tourist   Special
Plan and Year                 Roads        Roads   Roads2/   Roads    Projects   Total
-     -     -     -      million DH -----------------------
Three-Year Plan, 1965-67
1965                           20.0       13.2     5.0        8.9         0       47.1
1966                          12.0        11.6     5.0        7.1         o       35.7
1967                           13.0       11.0     4.9        3.3         0       32.2
Total 1965-67               45.0        35.8    14.9       19.3         0      115.0
1/
Five-Year Plan, 1968-72
1968                           11.5        5.9     4.0        3.7       9.7       34.8
1969                           12.3        6.6     4.0        2.5       4.0       29.4
1970                           11.9       12.5     4.0        2.0       5.7       36.1
1971                           11.8       13.2     4.0        2.0       5.5       36*5
1972                          -?          11.9     4.0          0       7.0       36.0
Total 1968-72                60.6       50.1    20.0       10.2      31.9      172.8
1/ Excludes DR 42 million for Agadir-Marrakech road.
2/ Located in sugar beet development area.
Source: Ministry of P?blic works and Commnmications, December 1972
November 6, 1973



TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
Highway Maintenance Expenditures, 1967-71
Primary and Secondary Roads
Network                    Average
Year                Budget           Maintained                 Expenditures
million DH            km                DH/km           US$/km
1967                 35.7              12,180             2,927             586
1968                 41.5              12,330             3,365             673
1969                 44.6              12,595             3,540              708
1970                 48.5              12,692             3,800              760
1971                 48.9              12,750             3,850              770
Tertiary and Tourist Roads
MPWC Participation Only
Year                                 Tertiary Roads                  Tourist Roads
million DH
1967                                       6.50                             0.26
1968                                       6.50                            0.26
1969                                       6.50                                0
1970                                       6.50                                0
1971                                       6.50                                0
1/ Calculated on the basis of US41 = DH 5.
Source: Ministry of Public Wvorks and Communications, December 1972
November 6, 1973



TABLE 8
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND H13HWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
Cost Estimate of Highway Dnprovement Works
Length   Length of                 Cost Estimate of Works
of     Sections to   Strength-   Correcting
Road No.  Section                          Road    be Improved    ening         Alignment    widenin!g      Total
-------- k  --------   ---------------- IIH thousand --------
RP1       Casablanca-Rabat-Fes-Oujda       648          145          3,600        4,000         1,000     d,600
RP2       Rabat-Tangier                    270           13          1,000        1,620             0     2,620
RP3       Kenitra-Fes                      149           23          1,600            D             0      1,6o0
RP7       Casablancu -Marrakech            236           78          8,500            0             0      8,800
RP8       Casablanc&-Agadir                514           38          2,450          500             0      2,950
RP10      Marrakech-Essaouira              171           50              0            0         J,350      3,350
RP24      Fes-A7rou-Marrakech              259           24          1,300            0           400      1,700
RP28      Meknea-Chaouen-Sebta             271           88              0        3,450         1,600      5,050
RP30      Agadir-Tiznit                      7d          78              0            0         3,200      3,200
RP32      Agadir-Ait Molloul             1,048            5            Poo            o         1,350      2,250
RP37      Tetuan-Larache                   102           27          2,230            C,            0      2,280
RP38      Tetuan-Tangier                    53           11            400            C             C        400
R3107     Mohammedia-MAdiouna                34          21              0        5,500             0      5,5%)O
RS1.21    E1-Jod4da.JAfi                   142           30                                     1,000     1, 000
R53302    Fo -K - ;n I                     164           1.
73l2    z>8-R''3'                         02                                    sUf                        , 
RS412     RPl-Hani Berkane                  46           24              0            0         2     OOL2,0
Total (Dl thousand)             '                      24,330        17,,00    S5,Y0
Total (kn)                                 679            246                        220        6Z9
--   mans not applioable.
a/ Ecluding contingenoies.
Source: Ministry of Publia works and Uor=unioatuono, December 1972
November 6, 1973



TABLE 9
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
Maintenance Equipment to be Purchased
Type                       Units       Unit Cost Unit Cost  Total Cost
of                        to be      (Including (c.i.f.   (Including         Total Cost
Equipmnt                    Purchased    Taxes)    Landed)       Taxes)       (c.i.f. Landed)
---------------DH -------------         I         US$
Cars (Type "IR1661)             6         19,800      14,4oo   i18,800        86,400      22,200
Light vehicles (Type '1411)   13          12,300       9,000    159,900      117,000      30,000
Pickups
.Sall                        55         19,800     14,400  1,089,000       792,000    203,000
"Landrover" Type             43         30,700     22,500  1,320,100       967,500    248,000
Tipper Trucks
3 tons                       19         36,900     27,000    70L,l00       513,000    132,000
7-8 tons                     54         7L,000     54,000  3,996,000   3,024,000    775,000
Asphalt patching units          9         7L,000     54,000    666,ooo       486,ooo    125,000
Vibration rollers               2         36,900      27,000     73,800       54,000      13,900
Front loaders                   7        L48,000    108,000  1,036,000       756,ooo    194,000
Compressors                     1         36,900      27,000     36,900       27,000       7,000
Snowplows
Over 100 HP                   4        15,000    135,000    740,000       540,000    139,000
Less than 100 HP              3        148,000    108,000    444,ooo       324,000      83,000
Snowblowers
Over 50 HP                    2        370,000    270,000    740,000       540,000    139,000
Less than 50 HP               1        222,000    162,000  _222j00         162,000      42,000
Total Equipment         :   11,343,       8,388,900  2,153,100
Spare Parts (about 10%):    1,156,500       931,100    246,900
12,500,      9,320,000  2,400,000
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Communications, December 1972
November 6, 1973



TABLE 10
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHIAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
Highway Design Standards
Unit or           Highway Classification
Item                               Type      Primary     Secondary       Tertiary
Geometric Design Standards
Design Speed                        km/h       100            80           40-60
Minimum Horizontal Radius              m   300-500       300 -500        125 -200
Minimum Vertical Xadius
Crest                                m     6,000        2,000            1,200
Valley                               m     1,500         1,000             600
Maximum Gradient                                 8            10               10
Roadway Features
Width
Surfacing                            m  6.00-10.5o       6.00         3.00-6.00
Shouldersi/                          m   2.00-2.75  1.50-2.75         1.00-1.50
1/ vWidth is determined by volumes of traffic, conditions of terrain, and im-
portance of highway.
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Commrmications, December 1972
November 6, 1973



TABI2, 11
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWkY PROJECT
MOROCCO
Economic Evaluation of Casablanca-Rabat Expressway
Traffic
Average                 Annual    Peak
Daily Traffic   Heavy      Growth    Hour
1976       Vehicles    Rate       Factor
ADT          %          %      % of ADT
Ain Harrouda-Mohammedia               10,400         25         8.5          7
Mohammedia-Cherrat                     11,100        25         8.5          7
Speed Flow Relationship
Speed           Nsximum
Minimum    Maximum    Stable
Road                                                Flow       Flow        Flow
hn/hr      km/hr    Vehicles/hr- /
Expressway (2-lanes, 2 way-traffic)                  100        45           2,000
RP1                                                   90        40           1,500
Coastal Road                                          50        35           1,500
Vehicle Operating Costs
hE/km as a function of speed (V) in km/hr, excluding any value for non-work time.
Passenger Vehicles: (ost =  4.61  +  2.56 x 10  6 V2 + 0.042
V                  -6  2
Trucks              : Cost = 14.86  + 20.9  x 10    v  + 0.299
V
Accident Costs
Death              DH 60,000 -
Bodily Injury       DH  3,00)
Road                                   Total Cost/100 million Vehicle-km
DH
RP1                                    45o x 3,000 + 40 x 60,000 = 3,750,000
Expressway (2-lanes, 2-way traffic)  180 x 3,000 + 16 x 60,00C = 1,500,000
Savings                     2,25u,000
Economic Life                          2k. years
Construction Period                       years
Rate of Return                              16%
1/ Vehicles expressed in equivalent passenger vehicle units:
1 heavy vehicle = 2.5 passenger vehicles.
2/ including material damage.
Source: Bureau Central d'Etudes Outre Mer, December 1972
November 6, 1973



APPRAISAL OF
'D                                                   A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCC0
>                               ~~~~~~~~~~con.omic Evaluation of Highwaay Improvement P o,'rm
Correcting Alignment and wJidening
Length to be Economic    Average          Heavy        Annual      Economic
10oad No.           Tioad               Improved       Cost    Daily Traffic  'Vehicle   Growth Rate    Return
km      DH Thasand       ADT        % of ADT                %    I
-?P1      Case,eab1-.anRa;b.t- es>.{~u.ja    12)      5,000        2,958          30            10      over 100
_P2        labat - Tangier                  6         1,000        2,950          35            12             83
'PS      C'asablanca - Agadir               1           500       2,396          30            10             18
RP:1o   I larrak'ech   Essaou4ira          50         3,500          466          30            10             35
X,p91e i!es-Azrou-P1arrakech     2           I'O0       2,815          30            14             28
>P2 j     leknes-,haouen-Sebta             88         5,050       1,091          30            10             40
~P30      Agadir-Tiznit                    78         3,200        1,638          35             8       over 100
b107      nohanmedia-,,'iediouna          21         5,300          858          25             7             1)
H6121     1-J edida-3afi                  30         1,250          989          15            15             60
13l2      Taza-H2'3,)                       9         2,500          882          30             8             17
RS 1,12   RPI-Hani Berkane                 24         2,000          760          30            15             41
Strengthening Pavement
RPI       Casablanc3-Rabat-Fes-Oujda       21         3,600        2,928          30            10             18
.'P2      Rabat-Tangier                     7         1,000        2,950          35            12             63
.P 3      Kenitra-'es                      23         1,600        3,194          35            10       over 100
2P71       .asablanca-Marrakech            78         8,800        5,323          30            15             88
RP8      Csablanc3a-Agadir                37         3,800        2,396          30            10            100
RP2b      Tes-Arz1uTarr'Akech              22         2,100        1,111          30            14             13
{IP32     Agadir-Ait Melloul                          1 l,00     10,729          40              8.5    over 100
.B37    Tu1a1arahe                       27         1,1100       1,977          30            15       over 100
,P39      Tetuan-Tangier                   11           400        2,682          20            10       over 100
r:73Q02   ;'es-"Ketama                     15         2,000        1,825          30            15             56
Note: For estimated Vehicle Operating Costs, see Table 11.
Source:  Bureau Central d'Etudes Outre Mer, December 1972



ANNEX A
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year               Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                       at End of Quarter
US$ million
1973/7-4
March 31, 197T                         1.3
June 30, 1974                          2.0
1974/75
September 30, 1974                     .5
December 31, 1974                      7.0
March 31, 1975                         9.5
June 30, 1975                         12.0
1975/76
September 30, 1975                    14.5
December 31, 1975                     17.0
March 31, 1976                        19.5
June 30, 1976                         22.0
1976/77
September 30, 1976                    24.0
December 31, 1976                     26.0
March 31, 1977                        28.0
June 30, 1977                         29.0
Source: Mission Estimate, April 1973
November 6, 1973



ANNEX B
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
Main Assumptions Used in Economic Evaluation
1.   Economic Costs of Road Works
These costs are net of taxes and cover right-of-way (estimated at
market cost), construction, and project preparation and supervision by
consultants.
2.   Traffic Growth Rates
Traffic growth rates are based on past trends, the Transport
Survey's origin and destination studies and forecasts of major economic
developments up to 1985 in the zones served by each route.
3.   Accident Savings
Accident savings, in particular on the expressway, are estimated
on the basis of a 10-year survey of accident rates on different roads in the
coastal plain and recent average indemnities paid by insurance companies:
DH 60,000 for fatal accidents and DH 3,000 for bodily injuries, including
indemnities for material damag;.
4.   Travel Time Savings
All time savings of passengers in cars and buses whether traveling
for business or other purposes have been disregarded; while for professional
drivers and assistants of heavy vehicles, they have been based on average
salaries and wages.
5.   Vehicle Operating Costs
Vehicle operating costs for heavy vehicles have been estimated
from surveys of transport costs of several enterprises; for light vehicles
by direct estimates of unit costs (prices of vehicles, tires, fuel, etc.),
wqhich were checked with manufacturers, garages and car owners (see Table
11, c)). Transport costs have been expressed as a function of average
travel speeds on roads in three types of terrain: flat, rolling and moun-
tainous. Savings in vehicle operating costs from road improvements were
estimated as a percentage of these costs. Thepercentages were calculated
from data on savings in other countries due to: increased radii of curves
in the case of alignment improvement; and improvement in surface condition,
for example broken-up pavement to smooth bituminous pavement in the case of
pavement strengthening.
November 6,1973



EVALUATION D'UN
DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
MAROC
ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE DES TRAUAUX PUBLICS ET DES COMMUNICATIONS
DIVISION TC-NI-E
SERVICES ADMIUISTRATIES                                                                                                       __           __    __                                  _.             . _ .
Gnr Pedoe #nolR           CV  3BREAU 3DBORiA ,                                                                                        9e4-         30RiAO___               E                3        ' iUE
Aesesei         ilcl IA.ee'-el       CVnTVDl          FIET                  VeIsoel   Crle
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oe                                                                                                                                       R  DRETRAE    t
2-Eanlilles  Admuistwtson  Infl.-A. ltre  Als-nAutique                    ......son   TlanspolzS A.RVICE I                                                                                                                                                 FIVA-SiVET
SEDVICE ER           S~ERV-CES De                  EVC E LA                      SERVIE 5EV                 IETOSe  VE
--E DE                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANSPORS -T-ER  VE CASADLA.CA Er                                                                                                            .VU
,V-UTIU  CLiE                  eAVS VE ES                     -E -GIE                   TRAUFT                                    E. _I
|   VEVVVmm1VcEIEE VI V        AdEIVIeVeIIstRaVion l    f    Anom      On     t      |      SETIONS        |                                               -R  -ENR S RAR90NISEENTSA
I --. AI,E.S.                     l-eAV- CPRE,,EI                                                                                                                                                                   - TlIe RIEIVC  R           VVVRVVEr------LOAIR        r  bVROIIE
{  N 'B     l      l      T~~~EVChmqle                 IRpeellIVllle                RIVECI   TnspSIlVERqe                                                                       0                          OIee _T..EdekIRe     l M''t'     r A    l,lo9  1   r 3 IVrrmIS SSnVeSC
-L~                                                                                         AdW-alstretlOn j l l | Cam tf11091X @t l lACoAdelE  VVEVIVSEI.
MR;SIjcVI| |                  SEVewln                     hRVIe  ale  L..|..... | E.jtr                                                              Atka:s                                                  vol 051e eV|  EIVIE SCeV:ICIIIR |
S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                 I |aE                                                                                                                 ADlE R |VUdIVSINIS  Bu  RRR
l   l   I                                                                                             |  SUBDIVISIONS  l   l                                      l               _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VIRS e
SERVICES              REGIOSS                 ARRONDfSSEMENTS
| CeIlIle NelonVdC  |   |  NoRV I V                     NV1d                                                                            V l   03GANISMEE D ECONOMfE MI STES RATTAV -EES AU AL  ISIErERE ET ESTA-SSREES EVDLICs
S NIle ETE EC              'AVll                      SVd1-1  -II~II1- e    1-   T11I- -
--|-T-                      -    --IT         ,--       T-     --EV                                                                       EE    A A                  VA  AIR                    VA CR  DC                    E  AV
|   'nfo  ons    )                                                | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~NATIONAL VES                         V   LCRf  Et |OESCIERINSroA   ROYLAIROC              O  PCESADEVC                R  ORASIES 
|  (ANTI                     IONEI       l             ONCF                                          I          IRVPC,            
NVTE L ORVASII IRAME NE EVIC EVE APPARAIRRE LA GIRECTIVN DEV SERVICEE RVVVIlERV ETAB FI RECORMEST
SCARCE RINISTERE AOES TRAVAUX EU3LICS CC DES COMMUNICVTIVNSS VEVERRRE EVIl






':.    \       _                I               +F          I|]     
(A  z/D<<4A                             L      G<        



