PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                     AWorld Froc of Povoriy
4ifoShop
Report No AB59
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                PERU-Rural Education Project
Region                      Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                      Primary education (20%); Secondary education (20%); Tertiary education
(20%); Pre-primary education (20%); Central government administration
(20%)
Project ID                  P055232
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF PERU
Implementing Agency         MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address                     Ministry of Education
Address Calle Van de Velde 160, Distrito de San Borja, Lima, Peru
Contact Person Mr Juan Chong
Tel (51-1) 436-0106    Fax (51-1) 436-6853      Email
jchong@rminedu.gob.pe
Environment Category        C
Date PID Prepared           April 28, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         March 26, 2002
Bank Approval Date          May 29, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Low quality of rural primary education
Twenty-eight percent of Peru's population lives in rural areas, characterized by poverty, geographic
dispersion and inaccessibility, and cultural diversity. Ninety percent of the rural population lives in
clusters of less than 500 people; 60 percent is poor (with 37 percent below the "food only" poverty line),
and a third speaks one of Peru's 42 indigenous languages. Social indicators for these populations are also
much below those for urban populations: rural women average only 4.9 years of education as compared
to 9.1 for urban women, and the infant mortality rate is 58 percent in rural, compared with 32 percent in
urban, areas.
Although Peru has done an impressive job over the last two decades in achieving universal access to
primary schooling, average schooling attainment and student learning are sharply lower in rural than
urban areas. While gross enrollment rates are similar for rural and urban areas (93 percent), on time
completion rates in rural primary schools are 20 percent as compared to 57 percent in urban areas. This
is the result of high repetition rates and dropout rates in rural areas as well as late entry into the system
(23.4 percent of poor rural children enter the system late as compared to 14.2 percent of poor urban
children). A 1996 national learning assessment found that only 38.5 percent of rural school children
mastered at least 9 out of 14 basic competencies, compared with 63.5 percent of urban school children.



2
PID
Initial results of the 2001 learning assessment show that children in multigrade schools perform well
below multi-teacher schools, and that Quechua- and Aymara-speaking children score worst of all,
achieving 0 percent and 1 percent scores in reading comprehension.
Underlying reasons for this disparity in school performance include: grossly lower time on task. Rural
schools only function an estimated 200-250 hours per year, compared with the nationally mandated 1050
hours for the primary level; inadequate learning materials; low teacher quality and motivation; teachers'
inability to deliver bilingual education to indigenous children and lack of training in multigrade teaching;
poor adaptation of the school to the local community and the agricultural calendar; and deficient school
supervision and support.
Low effective hours of instructionAbout 90 percent of rural primary schools are small multigrade
schools in isolated communities with harsh physical and environmental conditions which make it
difficult to attract well-prepared teachers. Rural schools are generally the point of entry for new teachers
into the education system, suffer high turnover, and tend to remain with the least effective teachers.
Teacher housing is rudimentary, if it exists at all, and teachers often leave their schools for distant towns
on the weekends, running the risk of not arriving back on time for class, or having to leave before the end
of the school week, because of limited transportation. At a minimum, teachers must travel to the
provincial capital once a month to pickup their paychecks and needed supplies for the school, forcing
them to leave classrooms unattended at least several days a month. These factors, combined with student
absenteeism linked to climatic conditions and families' need for children's labor all contribute to very
low effective hours of instruction in rural areas.
Ill-adapted curriculum and teaching methods. Although Peru has made strong efforts to ensure that the
primary curriculum is relevant to children in rural areas, teachers are not trained in multigrade teaching
methods, and students lack the self-paced instructional materials that are essential for effective learning
in multigrade schools. The centralized teacher deployment system fails to ensure that teachers can speak
the local language and deliver bilingual education in the early grades, another demonstrated strategy for
improving rural education quality. Dropout rates in rural areas are 10.1 percent, far higher than 2.1
percent found in urban areas. An estimated 63 percent of Quechua-speaking children, are over-aged,
compared to 50 percent of all children.
Deficient school supervision and support. Communication and access problems make contact between
rural schools, regional education offices, and the Ministry of Education sporadic to non-existent. In a
case study carried out in 2001, rural schools reported less than one supervision visit per year. However, a
more recent effort to establish school-to-school teacher networks for experience sharing and collective
work on common pedagogical problems appears to be having some positive results. Some innovative
small-scale programs have piloted alternative models for assuring better school support and supervision
in rural areas, notably the partnership between the Ministry of Education and the Fe y Alegria
organization for school supervision in the Quispicanchis Province.
Low pre-school and initial education coverage in rural areas.
Exposure to pre-school can boost primary school readiness and subsequent learning and attainment,
especially among economically disadvantaged and indigenous children, such as those found in rural Peru.
Despite the fact that lyear of pre-school education is mandatory in Peru, only 56 percent of rural 3-5
year old have access to pre-schooling, compared with 67 percent of urban children. Programs to promote
early childhood stimulation, or initial education, for 0-5 year old, through non-formal childcare and
parent training, also have been demonstrated to be effective in promoting early brain development and



3
PID
avoiding malnutrition, stunting, and other problems among low-income and indigenous children, which
can help equalize their future school success and life chances. Although some high quality NGO-run
programs of this type exist in Peru, coverage is very limited. The Government has not yet developed an
overall strategy for mainstreaming pre-school access in rural areas or supporting the delivery of
non-formal initial education programs to target populations.
Low secondary school coverage in rural areas.
Secondary education in rural areas faces major challenges of both coverage and quality. The net
enrollment rate for education is only 61 percent in rural areas, compared with 81 percent in urban areas.
Because there are very few secondary schools in rural areas, many families' only option is to send their
children to urban centers for schooling, which creates direct costs (lodging and travel) as well as
opportunity costs, from the loss of children's informal labor. Girls, especially, suffer from this. However,
Peru's extremely low population density and poor roads and transportation in most rural areas make
expansion of secondary schooling using traditional face-to-face instructional models prohibitively
expensive. Where secondary schools do exist, quality is usually lower than in urban schools, for many of
the same reasons as observed at the primary level, in addition to the fact that frequently these schools are
not able to hold sufficient number of qualified staff to deliver all the secondary education courses.
Poor teacher quality and motivation.
The formal level of qualifications of Peru's teaching force is very high, with some 95 percent of teachers
holding tertiary education degrees. However, the average quality of Peruvian teachers is considered
quite low (compared with other countries at similar levels of income), and motivation and performance
are problematic, especially in rural areas. The clear underlying issues are:
Mismatch between supply and demancDespite unattractive pay, because of the unconditional, rigid
stability attached to tenured status, there is a massive and growing oversupply of teachers: by late 2001,
some 270,000 teachers were employed while another 80,000 had a title but no position The teacher
preparation system is producing between 15,000 and 20,000 graduates per year, against needs of 4,000,
and with the postponement of the retirement age, more aging teachers will remain in activity. This
notwithstanding, there are shortages in specific categories (pre-school, secondary, bilingual), disciplines
(mathematics), and isolated areas.
Unregulated, low quality pre-service preparation. About 70 percent of teachers holding tertiary degrees
have been trained at universities, and 30 percent in one of the teacher training institutes (Higher Institutes
of Pedagogy or ISPs). There are some 53 universities with faculties of education and 400 ISPs, 250 of
which are private. Due to the unregulated proliferation of low-quality training programs since 1994, the
number of formally qualified teachers has increased dramatically in recent years. However, in the
absence of an accreditation system for teacher education programs, a similar title may hide very different
levels of professional preparation. At universities, the intake into initial teacher education programs tends
to be from the poorest performing students, while at ISPs, entry requirements are generally low.
Universities emphasize content over pedagogy, and ISPs, the opposite. In both types of institutions, the
curriculum is highly theoretical.  With a few exceptions of an experimental nature there is little
grounding in classroom practice (no courses to prepare students for multigrade teaching, for example)
and students have few systematic opportunities for internships in schools as student teachers, which is an
essential part of training in most OECD countries. Only 7 percent of the ISP faculty have any graduate
training and only 18 percent hold undergraduate-level degrees in any content areas (mathematics,
physics, history, language) besides pedagogic related courses. The situation is hardly better in the



4
PID
universities.
Low standards for entry into the professioiihe disparities and deficiencies in preparedness are not
corrected at entry, as hiring is not based on formal teaching standards and rigorous procedures.
Recruitment tests were introduced in 1998, but these tests assessed teachers' conceptual knowledge; they
were not criterion-based and did not evaluate pedagogical ability, methodological skills, interpersonal
and team skills or community orientation. Since the 18,000 teacher training graduates currently being
produced annually are well in excess of the Ministry's new hiring requirements, there exists considerable
scope to elevate teacher standards. This could be achieved by introducing technically sound certification
procedures prior to appointment, and periodic recertification to ensure the continuous maintenance and if
possible, upgrading of teacher skills.
Low pay and inadequate incentives. The average teacher salary in Peru is approximately 1.6 times GDP
per capita, to be compared to a multiple of 2-4 times prevalent in similar countries. This is low, even
after adjustment for average hours of work, which are less in Peru than in other LAC countries, and less
for teachers than for other professions. As a result, some 57 percent of teachers have taken up a second
job, which has eroded the time they can dedicate to their school. The same nationwide salary schedule
applies to secondary as well as primary teachers. It is quite compressed, with only a 10 percent
differential in remuneration between the top and lowest grade for the same 40 hours work, compared
with a good practice ratio of at least (5:1). The salary structure is fragmented and opaque, hardly
designed to promote equity, generate motivation, or produce results. For instance, the "main element" of
compensation amounts to only a tiny fraction of the total, the bulk of which is represented by the
"general increment" created to compensate for inflation. There are bonuses for activities, such as lesson
planning, which should form part of a teacher's routine. Most importantly, the allocation for rural areas
and hardship posts is not only insufficient, but portable, instead of being tied to the position. Even
though the system-wide student to teacher ratio, a relatively low 26:1 at the primary level, suggests that
the overall number of teachers is adequate, there is a clear distribution problem which resubs a high
share of schools in rural and low-income urban areas operating with teacher shortages.
Duality of treatment between appointed and contracted teac6eme teachers have permanent
appointment status, others work under fixed term contracts. There is no relationship between teacher
qualifications and employment status, although appointed teachers have enjoyed more generous benefits
than their colleagues under fixed term contracts. This has been a source of demotivation and discontent.
This duality of treatment needs to be corrected by gradually expanding the practice of open-ended
contracts, making tenure conditional upon satisfactory performance to protect the right of each child to a
competent and committed teacher. Generally speaking, more efficient management of the maze of
overlapping teacher categories would demand an upgraded Management Information System, with higher
quality data and integrated data bases for monitoring and simulations.
Poor teacher deployment and supervision Teacher deployment is highly centralized and, although some
30 percent of teachers have a mother tongue other than Spanish, the policy of deploying teachers
geographically in line with their language skills, providing salary incentives for bilingual teaching, or
ensuring that at least some experienced teachers are sent to those isolated areas has not been
appropriately implemented.  Teachers, especially in rural areas, receive little or no performance
evaluation or support to improve their practice. Schools are seldom organized for learning, with emphasis
on leadership, academic teamwork, resources in support of a shared vision, strong relations with parents.
Visits from the local UGE are few and far between and career development plans and in-service training
opportunities are limited, top-down, hardly related to the perceived needs of teachers, and seldom
reinforced in-site. De facto, teachers face neither positive incentives for good performance nor the threat
of sanctions for poor performance.



5
PID
Inefficient administration and low accountability for school performance.
The central Ministry of Education (MED) shares the responsibility for nationwide provision of
educational services (from preschool to tertiary non-university education) with 24 Regional Education
Directorates (DRE), which vary considerably in terms of geographic size, school system development,
and student populations, ranging from Lima, with over 2.1 million students, to Madre de Dios, with less
than 29,000 students. Each DRE is headed by a director. Between the DREs and the school level are 268
sub-regional offices called: Educational Management Units (UGEs), which are administrative oversight
offices some of which have budgetary authority.
There are four clear issues with the current system. First, analysts concur in labeling the Ministry of
Education as heavily centralized and inefficient. A high-level commission was tasked with developing a
national decentralization plan by end-2002 affecting all sectors of Government. The current reality is
that top-down initiatives emanate regularly from the central level with little concern for prioritization,
avoiding duplication, and the difficulties of administering cascading requests for information or action at
the regional, sub-regional and school levels. At the Directorate level, there is little autonomy and
accountability for the performance of the schools in their region. Data on school performance and student
learning are not organized and monitored at the DRE level, and DREs are neither rewarded nor
sanctioned for their progress in improving educational indicators over time. Although some DREs are
apparently more innovative and effective than otlti Ministry appears to lack instruments for
disseminating effective approaches or intervening where failure is persistent.
Second, there are clear problems at the UGE level, which is marked by confusing geographic and
functional demarcation of responsibilities, inadequate staffing and equipment for their missions, and low
value added to schools. The Ministry recognizes that, particularly in rural settings, the sub-regional
offices have generally been ineffective in reaching the schools, and often characterized by a bureaucratic
and punitive orientation, rather than seeing themselves as a source of support.
The third and most important issue is that, system-wide, there is a lack of focus on the school level. Peru
is one of the few countries in Latin America that has not yet put in place a standardized system of student
assessment to track learning outcomes. Although sample-based assessments were undertaken in 1996 and
1998, they were not standardized so as to permit comparison of the results over time.  A new
standardized assessment was  administered in November 2001, again on a sample basis. As a
consequence, schools receive no regular information about how their student learning performance - or
other education indicators such as graduation, repetition, dropout rates.
Finally, there have been some incipient attempts to encourage school-level development planning, but it
is not undertaken systematically. Plans where they exist are not resourced, and there are no instruments
for holding schools accountable for implementing proposed improvements. More fundamentally, schools
have no budgetary autonomy, and cannot even undertake minor purchases or repairs. Parents are invited
to serve on parent-teacher bodies (APAFAs), but these have no formal role in school personnel or other
decisions and many operate only perfunctorily. In short, in contrast to the growing number of Latin
American countries which are strengthening budgetary and decision-making capacity, and accountability
for results at the school level while simultaneously strengthening key normative and assessment
functions at the Ministry (or system) level, the education system in Peru remains quite centralized and the
focus on school level results is weak.
Government Strategy:



6
PID
The Government of Peru launched an effort of bringing together representatives from political, religious
civil society and government organizations in order to agree on key State policies. The result was the
National Agreement which enumerates a set of policies leading to four main objectives: Democracy and a
Rights Based State, Equity and Social Justice, Competitiveness, and a Efficient, Transparent and
Decentralized State. Under the second objective, the key Policy provides forUniversal Access to a Free
Quality Public Education and Promotion and Defense of Culture and Sports Specific policies under this
major one, include Early Childhood Development, Rural Education, Teacher Development, and
Strengthening the Quality and Relevance of Basic Education through greater school autonomy.
The Education Sector has published Education Policy Guidelines which are aligned with the Education
Policy stated in the National Agreement. Key actions identified to achieve the Education Sector Policies
are:
Increasedfocus on the needs of students and schools Two actions are called for under this objective: to
strengthen the curriculum in the areas of values and citizenship and to make school management more
democratic, by creating school councils that promote accountability at the local level. In 2001 the GOP
issued a Supreme Decree instituting voluntary school councils. Later on, in February 2002, MED
established school councils as compulsory and network councils were deemed necessary. Although the
creation of these school councils is an important step towards increased school autonomy with
accountability, a number of issues remain to be addressed to ensure their successful implementation,
including (a) outreach and  promotion efforts to make community members aware of this reform; (b)
training of council members on their roles and responsibilities; (c) restructuring of MED's regional
offices, to provide support to schools in this new strategy; and (d) creating incentives for schools to
create the school councils. To address these issues, MED is currently developing a new proposed
structure and roles of the regional offices and preparing to launch a communications program to promote
the formation of school councils.
A more democratic and accountable education management system.This strategic objective calls for the
reorganization of the MED regional offices in order to reduce bureaucracy, focus the system on school
performance and increase transparency and accountability at all levels. MED is pursuing the following 5
lines of actions toward this objective: (a) restructuring the regional offices to address corruption and
inefficiency problems, and to prepare the system for greater regional autonomy;  (b) continued
application of sample-based national assessments and publication of results. While the 1996 and 1998
tests were norm-based and limited to mainly urban areas, the 2001 test was criterion-based and covered
also rural areas and Quechua and Aymara speaking students; (c) publication of the results of the National
Consultation on Education, which was carried out during the Transition Government (January-July
2001); (d) creation of an National Council on Education with membership of a wide variety of citizen
groups; and, (e) installation of a new complaints hotline and center.
Expand and improve the quality of the education services in rural cdbnen of Peru's 24
Departments have been targeted for expanded investment, in order to bring the currently low ECD and
pre-school participation, primary school completion and secondary school completion rates in these
impoverished rural areas up to the national average. Priority investments include (a) expanding,
strengthening and improving the quality of ECD and pre-school education, including universal coverage
of 5-year old in pre-school, (b) strengthening primary education quality and expanding intercultural
bilingual education, and (c) implementing a new model for secondary schooling in rural areas, using
information and communication technologies ("Plan Huascaran"). The MED has also initiated a pilot
program to provide incentives to teachers in rural areas with the specific objective of ensuring quality
teachers in rural schools. MED is committed not only to implement this first phase of the incentive
system but also to pursue a longer term strategy of improving the quality of teachers (see below).



7
PID
Include substantial indigenous participation in rural education Approximately one third of the national
population are indigenous and speak one of Peru's 42 native languages. To respond to these needs, the
Government strategy involves strengthening indigenous community participation in various aspects of
project implementation, as well as addressing the basic educational needs of indigenous learners,
regarding the use of indigenous languages in basic education along with the teaching and learning of
Spanish as a second language. Further measures to assure quality educational improvement in rural areas
include indigenous teacher training and employment, community outreach and revision of school
calendars to respond to the local agricultural cycle.
Reform the teacher .quality assurance system, career path and incenti-vt&Nough dialogue with the
teachers' unions, setting standards to upgrade quality and reduce the variance in teacher preparation and
performance, implementing a continuous teacher professional development system, designing an
incentives policy which supports what makes a difference for children learning, and introducing a
growth-oriented evaluation system. As a first step, MED has produced a study, which develops the basic
principles for the reform, including criterion-referenced standards as a basis for the certification,
selection, promotion of teachers in the sector, proposals for an accreditation system for teacher training
institutions, for a  streamlined salary structure, more efficient payment mechanism, and more
differentiated incentives and sanctions.
In February 2002, the MED introduced new criteria for teacher recruitment as part of the reform.
Teachers considered for conversion from fixed term to open-ended contracts were evaluated through an
objective test and interview process that included the participation of parents and, when relevant,
indigenous organizations, who had the right to veto teachers if there were unable to show proper use of
the local language. While this was a clear step in the right direction, the test scores registered by the
candidates (the median score was 11 out of 40 possible points) confirmed the serious issues of teachers'
low cognitive and professional competencies. Approximately 22,000 teachers have now been converted
to open ended contracts. There is also a clear need for continuous, and more effective, professional
development programs for teachers if their quality is to be upgraded.
Evaluating Progress The GOP has identified three key medium term indicators to measure the
implementation of the strategy: (a) proportion of children who are in the normative age for each grade,
(b) proportion of children that complete primary and secondary education in 11 years, and (c) proportion
of children that approve the standard performance evaluation. Each of the above strategic objectives will
contribute to the achievement of all these indicators, by ensuring that children attend schools and that
their education is more relevant to their needs, making schools more accountable for their performance,
ensuring targeted interventions in previously excluded areas in terms of coverage and quality of
education, and improving the quality of teachers, a key and previously underemphasized input to the
quality of education.
2. Objectives
The Project objectives are to improve basic education access and quality in rural areas, improve teacher
quality and motivation, and strengthen education management.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has extensive experience in supporting projects on rural education, with strong
multigrade, bilingual and intercultural components.  Also, the Bank has wide experience in
decentralization programs where local communities play an important role. The experience gained in
Central America, Brazil and Colombia in these areas will be instrumental in assisting MED's efforts in
developing quality education in rural areas.



8
PID
The Bank has already been working with GOP extensively in the early implementation of the proposed
reforms. The project is tied to the Programmatic Social Reform Loans (PSRL I and II) which is
promoting the development of the new teacher career structure and the piloting of a rural teacher
incentive program, as well as the first steps toward decentralization and community participation.
4. Description
Component 1: Expanding Education Access for Rural Children
(US$10.54 million, 11 percent of total Project cost)
The key objective of this component is to increase access to quality initial, pre-school and secondary
education for children in rural areas who have been previously excluded from these services.
Access to Quality Initial and Preschool Education
Two distinct children groups are addressed under this component: (a) the 0 through 2-year-old children
participating in Initial Education programs focused on increasingly complex activities designed to
promote a balanced early childhood development (ECD). In spite of pioneering ECD initiatives in the
1960s, Peru shows today a surprisingly low coverage rate (around 3 percent nationwide, and 1 percent in
rural areas) for this age group; and (b) the 3-5 year-old group being prepared (at pre-school) for the
adequate and timely readiness for entry to formal primary schooling. Peru has reached a national 42
percent coverage rate (36 percent in rural areas) for this age group, through the development of the
Non-formal Initial Education Program (PRONOET) and the Initial Education Centers (CEI).
For children 0-2 years qlaa non-formal approach will be implemented in which children will be
educated along with their parents and siblings within a family and community framework. Services will
be delivered by trained community educatami(iXadoras) through home-based and center-based
strategies. Wherever relevant, community educators fluent in the local vernacular languages will be
trained for the provision of Initial Education. It is expected that 30,000 children will benefit from this
program, amounting to a coverage from I percent to 4.7 percent.
For children 3-5 years old,an intervention combining of formal and non-formal approaches will be
implemented. Wherever relevant, community educators fluent in the local vernacular languages will be
trained for the provision of initial education and the introduction of children to Spanish. Services will be
implemented by train&animadoras, teachers and teaching coordinators and sub-central office
specialists. The CEI and PRONOEI program will be strengthened, and 300 new PRONOEIs will be
created. A total of 38,000 children 3-5 year old are expected to benefit from the Project, of which 29
percent (or 11,000) would result from Project-expanded coverage.
Secondary Education
Secondary education is compulsory and has become part of the basic education structure, together with
preschool and primary. In rural areas, however, access to post-primary schooling, even the five-year
basic secondary education, is made particularly difficult, especially for those groups who have to face
either geographic constraints in the Andean mountains or sheer remoteness in the Amazon forest. Any
impact-oriented solution must identify creative strategies other than traditional school delivery. In
selected rural areas, the Project will develop distance secondary education programs through the
application of cost-effective information and communication technologies. For the Phase 1, a coverage
of 5,000 students is planned, a 14 percent increase in coverage as compared to the 2002 rates in the pilot
areas. Phase I will pilot and assess two models using varying levels of information and communication



9
PID
technologies. The focus will be on testing and gauging two secondary education models in order to
determine the cost-effective solutions that better fit each particular rural environment of Peru. The pilot
will be implemented gradually during the three year period up to a total of 116 schools which will be
located at the center of the rural networks which do not have a secondary school currently available. It is
expected that facilities will also be used for teacher training and, possibly, enrichment of upper primary
students.
Component 2: Improving Quality in Rural Primary Schools
(US$63 58 million, 68 percent of total Project cost)
This component focuses on the quality of teaching and learning in primary schools in the targeted rural
areas. It will support quality improvement through three sub-components: (a) a program of continuous
professional development with a focus on rural teachers; (b) the development and distribution of
multigrade and bilingual instructional materials; and (c) classroom rehabilitation and equipping.
Continuous Teacher Development System (CTDS)
This sub-component will upgrade both initial and in-service teachers' educational and professional
quality and performance through: (a) the design of a continuous teacher training system based on a
redefined pre-service and a decentralized and consistentin-service teacher training strategy; and (b) the
training of the initial, primary and secondary school teachers required for adequate project
implementation in the target Project areas.
With respect to initial teacher training, the sub-component would support the design and introduction of a
continuous two-phase (pre- and in-service) teacher development system that will: (a) redefine the
pre-service teacher training; (b) set up an ISP accreditation system; (c) offer specialized training to 600
teachers trainers; and (d) implement 15 competitive innovation projects at the ISP level.
With respect to in-service programs the sub-component will (a) support six new regional "Amauta"
Teachers Professional Development Centers (linked to DINFOCAD); (b) coordinate and hire external
training institutions to provide training to 19,800 rural teachers, 3,400 ECD and PRONOEI animadoras
and 250 secondary education tutors; and (c) develop a social marketing plan to promote teacher
appreciation and motivation.
Curriculum Adjustment and Provision of Educational Materials
This sub-component seeks to contribute to quality improvement of rural primary schooling, including
areas in which one or more indigenous languages are predominantly spoken. Two complementary
models will be implemented: (a) delivery at the national level of already experimented bilingual
educational materials prepared by the MED; and (b) the design and validation within the networks
selected for this project of a new educational proposal for the rural areas, aiming at more pertinent
pedagogical service, through high quality self-paced learning strategies, materials, and teacher manuals to
support multigrade instruction and bilingual education. In both cases, rural indigenous vernacular and
Spanish-speaking children will be benefited by the project. Teacher training activities will also be
included in both modalities.
For indigenous vernacular-speaking students,the sub-component includes support to primary school
students belonging to 14 different indigenous groups, at the national level, through the implementation of
the education program in their respective mother tongues and the teaching of Spanish as a second



10
PID
language. Within the scope of the Project, the following materials will be distributed: (a) previously
validated workbooks (three per student) in language and communication for the indigenous languages,
Spanish as a second language and mathematics for the six grades of primary education;  (b)
corresponding teachers guides; (c) bilingual classroom libraries (18,000); and (d) sets of complementary
educational materials. During Phase 1, approximately 15,000 teachers working with 375,000 children will
be trained in the use of these materials as part of the full training program offered to bilingual teachers. It
is estimated that through these activities 69 percent of the vernacular-speaking indigenous rural
population at primary level will be covered.
Rehabilitation and Equipping of Rural Schools
In this Phase I, this sub-component will finance civil works, furniture and equipment in order to refurbish
classrooms and other educational and administrative spaces, benefiting 35,000 children in 540 schools
located in poor rural areas of the three climatic regions of Peru; these schools make up 116
primary-school networks in 11 Departments of the country. The Project would target the refurbishment
of up to 1,900 classrooms and approximately 1,500 complementary facilities (such as administrative
offices, small cooking facilities, sanitary services, etc) in existing schools according to architectural
prototypes agreed with the Bank.
The Compensation and Social Development Fund (FONCODES) will be the executing agency for all
construction work. During appraisal, the Project cycle to be followed was reviewed and agreed upon.
MED, through the Education Infrastructure Office (OfNFE), will perform random inspection of works.
The MED PCU will carry out the general coordination and the furnishing and equipment of the
completed infrastructure, in close coordination with FONCODES.
The preventive maintenance program for all infrastructure considered during this Phase I will be
implemented directly by the schools through the local Parent/Teacher Associations with funds provided
by MED at an expected annual rate of US$100/classroom.
Component 3: Reform of Teacher Policy and Education Management
(US$20.08 million, 21 percent of total project cost)
Systemic reforms of teacher policy and education management are crucial for improving the quality of
basic education and the efficiency of education spending. A key objective of the proposed program is to
support the new Government's efforts to address politically sensitive issues in these areas that have been
among the most important constraints to educational progress in Peru. The reforms of teacher policy and
education management will be national and will have considerable implications for rural schools, which
have suffered the most from: (a) teacher low quality, and motivation linked to inadequate standards and
incentives; and (b) a centralized system of education management that has failed to monitor and support
rural schools.
This component has six inter-related sub-components: (a) teacher policy reform; (b) reform of education
management; (c) support for school development; (d) national assessment system; (e) strategic analysis
and policy research; and (f) Project management.
Teacher Policy Reform
The purpose of this sub-component would be to support MED efforts in developing and implementing a
standard-based teacher career and development reform relying on a professional performance evaluation



11
PID
mechanism, a certification system, and remuneration and recognition instruments. Specifically, the
Project would finance: (a) the design and implementation of the teacher career and development system,
including: (i) a detailed structure of the teaching career ladder, its performance and experience levels and
corresponding promotion criteria; (ii) a systematic teaching performance evaluation covering the
multidimensional intra- and extra-classroom roles played by teachers in their daily educational activities;
(iii) a teacher's initial certification of professional quality, and periodic re-certification system. The
re-certification process is expected to be initially on a voluntary basis, and later shifted to compulsory
status; (iv) the established scenarios for the remuneration package and other forms of incentives and
recognition; (b) the development and dissemination of guidelines, operating manuals, software and other
instruments to share with all teachers and managers information on the benefits legally guaranteed and
conditions set by the teacher development system; (c) the upgrading of the teacher MIS (Management
Information System) to support information-based teacher management and deployment. The MIS will
maintain an updated data bank of the professional training and development status of every single
teacher, starting with those involved with the 290 proposed school networks. This information system
will become a sine qua non condition for the adequate operation of the Continuous Teacher Training
System; and (d) the implementation of several national and local workshops to inform teachers and other
members of the education community of the forthcoming changes.
Reform of education management
This sub-component will support the Government's efforts to "invert the pyramid" of education
administration in Peru, by strengthening the focus on school initiatives and results. The reform will
increase autonomy and community voice in decision-making at the school level; establish networks in
rural areas to provide support for isolated rural schools; transform the existing sub-central offices into a
new structure for local supervision and support to schools at the regional and sub-regional level; and
increase the accountability of regional offidir the performance of schools and other education
institutions under their jurisdiction.  Investments will be made in consulting, training, media
dissemination, stakeholder meetings, equipment for sub-central offices, and evaluation, material and
handbook development and printing.



12
PID
School Development Fund
This sub-component will support the implementation of school-initiated improvement projects
coordinated by the Rural School Networks. Since the ultimate objective of the education system is to
support students' learning improvements at the school level, each school council will develop a school
improvement plan. Individual schools will work through their networks to support each other in
diagnosing problems, setting priorities, and developing credible, time-bound action plans for achieving
their individual school goals. As a network, the schools will ensure that these school level plans
aggregate into a network development plan that represents a coherent strategy for the sub-region. The
new UGEs will review and approve network development plans. To assist schools in implementing their
improvement plans, a School Development Fund will be established, which will channel resources to
individual schools through their networks. Under Phase 1, the Project will finance the implementation of
150 PEIs.
National Assessment System
This sub-component will help the MED Quality Assessment Unit Wnidad de Medici6n de la Calidad -
UMC): (a) carry out activities to continue strengthening its technical capacity and promoting the
enhancement of an "assessment culture"(b) develop and administer the 2004 national assessment
system on mathematics and communication for 2nd and 6th grade students of primary as well
as 3rd and 5th grade students of secondary schools. Similarly, in 2004 the system will assess
citizenship education (formaci6n ciudadana) for students enrolled in 6th grade of primary and 5th
grade of secondary education; (c) develop and administer in 2004 a census-based assessment on
mathematics and communication skills     (2nd and 6th grades of primary education) and
citizenship education (6th grade of primary education) in areas determined by the UMC; (d)
develop and administer in collaboration with the school networks a self-administered
census-based application to assess mathematics and communication skills of students enrolled in
6th grade of primary schools using the item bank developed by the UMC. These tests will be
administered in schools of the project area in 2006 after a pilot is conducted in 2005. In addition
to these tests each school will receive a set of materials containing information regarding the
tests, how to administer them, evaluate them   and interpret their results; (e) carry out a
longitudinal study aimed at assessing trends in basic education in areas to be defined by the
UMC; (f) carry out studies to assess communication skills in a sample of students whose native
language is Aymara, Aguaruna and two variants of Quechua; (g) implement a study on school
effectiveness in a small number of schools aimed at complementing national assessment results
and gathering knowledge on educational processes; and (h) finance institutions or consultants to
carry out research using the data available.
The sub-component will also assist the Statistics Unit in: (a) restructuring of the statistics system; (b)
training at the UGE level on data collection, and analysis and system maintenance; (c) strengthening
analytical capacities  at the central level and developing data dissemination instruments;  (d)
strengthening the geographic information system to support school network identification and validation;
and (e) validation of a student-based information system in the project areas.
Strategic Analysis and Policy-oriented Research
This sub-component will support the development of studies and strategic analysis capacity of the Rural
Education Office in order to ensure a well coordinated and adequate Program implementation, process



13
PID
and results monitoring and follow-up and timely preparation of the second Phase. Studies will be carried
out within five large groups of themes: (a) teacher career development, (b) decentralization and school
autonomy, (c) development of  strategies to provide demand incentives; (d) introduction of the
intercultural component in the classroom; and (e) project process and impact evaluation.
Project Management
The PCU will be established as part of MED's Strategic Planning Secretariat and will operate according
to the structure and management procedures set forth in the Project Operations Manual (OM). The PCU
will be guided and monitored by the Project Steering Committee. Approval of the OM and establishment
of the Project Steering Committee are conditions for Project Effectiveness. The PCU will be responsible
for coordinating and monitoring the yearly Operations Plan, financial management of the project, and
procuring goods and services.
Summary of Project Costs by Sub-Component
1. Expanding Education Access for Rural Children
1.1 Access to Quality Initial and Preschool Education
1.2 Secondary Distance Education
2. Improving Quality in Rural Schools
2.1 Continuous Teacher Development System (CTDS)
2.2 Curricular Adjustment and Provision of Educational  Materials
2.3 Rehabilitation and Equipping of Rural Schools
3. Reform of Teacher Policy and Education Management
3.2 Reform of Education Management
3.3 School Development Fund
3.4 National Assessment System
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $29.50
IBRD                       $52.50
IDA
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK $12.20
Total Project Cost         $94 20
6. Implementation
Implementation Period. 4 years (APL 1).
Executing agencies. The Ministry of Education will be the primary implementing agency for the Project,
with FONCODES taking on the responsibility for the execution of the infrastructure sub-projects. At the
national level, the Vice-Ministry for Pedagogical Management will take responsibility for
implementation oversight. MED National Directorates will be responsible for implementation of the
various sub-components under a yearly Project Implementation Plan. At the regional and local levels (i)
the Regional Offices of Education (DREs) and UGEs will be responsible for local implementation
oversight (ii) local schools and networks will be responsible for diagnosing needs, preparing local
strategic plans and implementation, and, (iii) ISPs and other training institutions under contract witi
MED will take on the role of training and providing external supervision of the project activities.
FONCODES will carry out the refurbishment of schools according to an annual plan agreed upon with
MED and will be subject to the agreement to be signed with MED. This agreement will include the



14
PID
environmental guidelines to be used by FONCODES during the implementation of the infrastructure
sub-projects. During project preparation, environmental guidelines were developed and discussed with
MED and FONCODES. These are being used by FONCODES to review their existing guidelines.
Project Coordination. MED will be assisted by a PCU responsible for overall coordination and
monitoring of project implementation. The PCU will be accountable to the4lta Direccion (the Minister
and Vice-Ministers) and will report to the Project Steering Committee, in which the key MED
directorates will participate. The PCU will procure goods and services. Detailed procedures for
procurement and financial management processes will be specifiedOp*rCfions Manual
Regardless of size, contracting will be carried out using procurement procedures and standard bidding
documents satisfactory to the Bank.
Operations Manuals.The project will use 6*erations Manual covering all aspects of project
implementation, including but not limited to: project components, organizational and management
structures, supervision and evaluation mechanisms; targeting and other criteria for resource allocation;
procedures for the formulation of annual implementation plans, financial, accounting and auditing
procedures; procurement procedures and standard bidding documents; structure of the Steering
Committee and environmental guidelines to be used in the refurbishment of the schools. The adoption of
an Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank is a condition for effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements Project monitoring and evaluation will measure not only
procedures but also results, thereby allowing the project to learn. The PCU will be responsible for
monitoring of the Project as well as for results and impact evaluation.
Monitoring of the coverage of the Project interventions will be based on PCU administrative
data and statistical information from MED's information system. Given that the system requires further
strengthening, the Project will finance technical assistance to MED's Statistics Unit in order to refurbish
the data collection and auditing system, as well as the GIS. Progress reports, including monitoring
indicators will be submitted by the PCU every six months. An annual review of the Project will be
carried out jointly with the Bank based on these Progress reports. The Bank will carry out at least two
technical supervision missions per year in close coordination withi MED, FONCODES and MEF. Prior to
December 2005, the Bank, in close collaboration with MED and FONCODES will conduct a
comprehensive mid-term evaluation of the Project. The results of this evaluation will be used to propose
eventual adjustments or changes to improve Project implementation.
Evaluation of the Project results and impact will be based on data of the LSMS and on custom
designed sample-based and case studies. The studies will aim at both assessing the project as well as to
learn and provide feedback to improve project implementation. The evaluation studies will include, but
will not be limited to, a mid-term evaluation, an impact evaluation, and a case-study to determine the
impact on teacher training in their performance in the classroom as well as in the learning processes.
7. Sustainability
Project objectives reflect GOP priorities and the National Consultation on Education. The Government
has committed itself to raising the share of the education budget incrementally during the next five years.



15
PID
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Rural education has been particularly defying when trying to implement actions to achieve equity and
quality objectives. Projects such as EDURURAL in Northeast Brazil, Colombia'sEscuela Nueva, and El
Salvador's EDUCO, among others have been exemplary on how to address the specific needs of rural
education in a diversity of approaches and many lessons have been derived from them in the design of
this Project.
Bilingual education has proven to be a cost-effective means to reduce repetition and dropout rates as well
as low academic achievement in indigenous populations, as observed in a number of World Bank
projects in Mexico, Guatemala and Bolivia. The current bilingual education program in Peru has yielded
valuable information on teacher training, production and distribution of materials and communication
with the community, which have been taken into consideration during the design of the relevant activities
to be carried out under the Project.
Teacher training has been object of renewed and increasing interest as the most important quality factor
for school-based education improvement. Projects like the Brazilian FUNDESCOLA and Parana, the
Mexican PAREB and the Uruguayan MECAEP emphasized teacher training in a way that proved to be
decisive. The proposed project will help design a carefully conceived "continuous teacher training
system" with immediate application to teacher training in rural areas.
School autonomyhas been the focus of well-known and positive education reforms in Minas Gerais
(Brazil), Chile, El Salvador and Nicaragua as a meaningful strategy to boost local ownership and
community participation. The proposed project will support school autonomy mainly by the development
of the "education community" concept, strengthening of the school councils and the development and
implementation of the school-centered Institutional Education Plan - PEI.
The concept of school networkas an instrument for micro-regional school association and planning has
been implemented in Ecuador and in Ceara (Brazil) with the Regional Education Development Centers -
CREDE. In the project preparation period, Peruvian professionals benefited from Ecuadorian assistance
and visited the Ceara model. Both cases inspired the design of the proposed school network structure,
which seeks to promote closer-to-school management and pedagogical initiatives in rural areas.
Provision ofsecondary education through distance learningith support from  information and
communications technology, has been carried out in a number of countries, including Mexico and
Colombia. Results are encouraging showing positive impacts both in coverage and quality that are
comparable or, sometimes, better than traditional secondary education.
This project also builds on the lessons learned formPtha Primary Education Quality Project
particularly on teacher training and production of materials. This Project found a successful mechanism
for the provision of teacher training through the use of Universities, ISPs and NGOs, as opposed to
internal training programs.  The same strategy will be used during this project. Production and
distribution of materials for primary grades in Spanish was also successful and is now being carried out
regularly by MED. These processes will continue during the implementation of this project. Only
materials targeted to the multigrade classrooms (including self-paced materials) will be produced and
tested.
The previous project, was implemented by the Ministry under MECEP-PCU coordination. The Project
PCU staff was only dedicated to the administration of the Project funds. This project implementation
system ensures process ownership and sustainability. However, it also creates lags in implementation
mainly because there is great need for intra-institutional coordination. The first lesson learned is that it is



16
PID
better to sacrifice timeliness for ownership. Even though it would be more practical and timely to have a
separate group of people executing project activities, it is best to involve the whole Ministry, keeping the
responsibility under the directorships. The proposed project would also be implemented by the Ministry
while intra-institutional coordination issues would be addressed through the participating directorates and
facilitated by the Steering Committee.
A small-size and qualified PCU was able enough to manage, particularly for the last two years, the
Primary Education Quality Improvement Project - MECEP (1996-2001) and carry it out to successful
and timely completion. Among other lessons learned, the continuity of committed staff was key to
successful implementation.
Through the preparation of the Programmatic Social Reform Loans (PSRL I and PSRL 11) there was
frequent contact with other ongoing Peruvian projects in the social areas. This helped place this
education project in a broader political and administrative framework, which has added synergy to
project-supported components. One of the lessons learned in this process is that the Bank needs to pay
more attention to inter-institutional processes as part of project design and supervision. This new project
will benefit from the same interaction with other Bank or otherwise social projects in the country.
The availability of a well-conducted sector work means a source of information and a comparative point
for data validation. This role was played by "Peruvian Education at a Crossroads: Challenges and
Opportunities for the 21st Century" (Washington, DC: The World Bank, 2001) in the whole preparation
process.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : The environmental impact of the project is expected to be insignificant since only
rehabilitation of schools will be financed. MED is not projecting any growth in primary schools and any
infrastructure for the preschool classrooms or secondary program would be linked to existing schools.
During project preparation, a set of guidelines were prepared for the project's civil works in order to
incorporate simple environmental rules for project design, evaluation, and supervision. These guidelines
have been discussed in detail with FONCODES and are being used to enrich the existing FONCODES
environmental guidelines for school infrastructure. The environmental guidelines will become integral
part of the Operations Manual and of the MED-FONCODES agreement.
FONCODES, the executing unit for the infrastructure sub-projects, has already implemented
environmental assessment and mitigation measures into the project cycle. The above guidelines would
be used to enrich the FONCODES procedures in order to strengthen two areas where the environmental
safeguards were weaker, that is project screening and supervision. The FONCODES Project cycle
already includes environmental assessment during the evaluation period and assurances of the
implementation of mitigation measures during supervision.
10. List of factual technical documents:



17
PID
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Livia M. Benavides
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone (511) 215-0660
Fax: (511)421-7241
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web: http.// www worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  11/14/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEA H         2 fEEDSACK  .   j Srri MAP '  ......... |  5LlHpWCA SE ._ 



