Report No. 23382
Report No: I055232 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/10/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: PERU    Project ID: P055232
Project: Rural Education and Teacher Development Project           Task Team Leader:
Livia M. Benavides
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 26, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m): 50.00
Bank Approval: June 18, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHE     Sector: EC - Early Childhood Development; EP - Primary
Education; ES - Secondary Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)           Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Project objectives would be to improve basic education access and
quality in rural areas, improve rural teacher quality and motivation, and
strengthen education management.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component 1: Expanding Education Access for Rural Children
(US$5.4 million, 6.6k of total Project cost)
The key objective of this component is to increase access to quality
initial, preschool and secondary education for children in rural areas who
have been previously excluded from these services.
1.1 Initial and Preschool Education
This sub-component will develop, expand and improve the quality of Initial
Education to two rural children groups: (a) non-formal home-centered
education; and (b) non-formal (PRONOEI), and formal (CEI) pre-school
education. Provision of the non-formal or the formal pre-school service
will be determined by the number of children in the community.
During Phase I, this sub-component will support: (a) pilot projects in ECD
for 0 through 3-years olds designed to test up to four types of non-formal
Initial Education modalities, including community educators' training and
program evaluation. After due assessment, the most appropriate modalities
will be adopted for ECD coverage expansion during Phases II and III; (b)
the expansion, after minor adjustments to improve quality, of: (i) PRONOEI
program coverage to include up to 25,000 3 through 5-years old children;
and (ii) CEI program coverage to reach up to 20,000 4 through 5-years old
children. Implementation of this sub-component will be limited to the 428
networks within the 11 departments.
1.2 Secondary Education
In selected rural areas, the Project will develop distance secondary



education programs through the application of cost-effective information
and communication technologies.    For the First Phase a coverage of   9,000
students an X percent increase in coverage as compared to the 2002 rates
in the pilot areas.
For this particular sub-component, Phase I will be a piloting,
experimenting and comparative assessment phase. The focus will be on
testing and gauging several distance education models in order to identify
a cost-effective and fitting solution for the typical rural environment of
Peru. Three models will be under consideration: (a) Model A - The current
strategy adopted by the ongoing Pilot Distance Education Centers (CPED)
which uses videotapes and printed materials. A tutor works as a
facilitator; (b) Model B - One that in addition to Model A involves
reception of satellite TV. It uses the same pedagogical approach as Model
A; and (c) Model C - A more complex model involving: (i) Models A and B;
(ii) satellite-linked VSAT bi-directional channels to facilitate real-time
communication between the students and a tutor located at the emitting
station, printed handbooks, videos, computer, CD-ROM, and Internet access.
These four models will be compared with the traditional secondary presence
school according to indicators showing students' attitudinal and
behavioral features associated with the interaction with each specific
delivery model, including: (i) satisfaction, knowledge and other skills
acquired, frustration faced; (ii) satisfaction with the school
environment, educational resources and technologies used; and (iii) first
and foremost, student performance and achievement. A detailed and
participatory analysis of this comparative assessment will help identify
the preferred model for the expansion of the access to basic secondary
education in rural Peru during Phases II and III.
The pilot will be implemented gradually during the three year period up to
a total of 111 schools which will be located at the center of the rural
networks which do not have a secondary school currently available. It is
expected that facilities will also be used for teacher training and,
possibly, enrichment of upper primary students.
Component 2: Improving Quality in Rural Primary Schools
(US$66 million, 79t of total Project cost)
This component focuses on the quality of teaching and learning in primary
schools in the targeted rural areas. It will support quality improvement
through three sub-components: (a) a program of continuous professional
development for rural teachers; (b) the development and distribution of
multigrade and bilingual instructional materials; and (c) classroom
rehabilitation.
2.1 Continuous Professional Development for Rural Teachers
This sub-component will provide rural teachers, for the first time, with
relevant and high quality professional development opportunities. Using
the teacher development approach that has already been successfully used
by DINFOCAD for other areas of training, the program will support the
contracting of high quality regional ISPs to develop training programs on
effective multigrade teaching methods and bilingual education, two
priority areas for rural teachers. Under Phase I of the program, the
ISPs will deliver professional development programs in these areas to
-2 -



17,000 rural teachers (the universe of primary school teachers in the
target project areas). Under Phase II of the program, this professional
development will be extended to primary teachers in all rural areas.
2.2 Provision of Instructional Materials
MOE is developing high quality self-paced learning materials and teacher
manuals to support multigrade instruction and bilingual education
materials for 14 of Peru's indigenous languages. Specifically, the
materials include: (i) workbooks for the six primary grades in 10 native
languages and five varieties of quechua; (ii) teachers' guides on how to
maximize classroom instructional materials; (iii) teachers' guides on how
to get the maximum out of a multigrade group and environment; (iv) play
kits to strengthen language acquisition and use both in Spanish and the
native languages; and (v) an outreach package for teachers to use in
introducing parents and community members to the advantages of bilingual
instruction.
During Phase I instructional materials would be developed and distributed
to all ,000 classrooms in the project area. During Phase II, materials
would be distributed to all rural primary schools.
2.3 Rehabilitation of Physical Infrastructure
In this First Phase of the proposed APL Loan, the civil works, furniture
and equipment component will rehabilitate, complete classrooms and other
educational and administrative spaces for 33,194 children in 598 existing
schools located in poor rural areas of the three climatic regions of Peru;
these schools conform 111 primary-school networks in 11 Departments of the
country. The emphasis of the Program would be directed towards the
rehabilitation of 1,467 classrooms in those existing schools and would
include the following actions: (i) substitution of 204 classrooms and
dilapidated kitchen and sanitary facilities; (ii) repairs of 786
classrooms, kitchens and sanitary facilities classified as in regular
condition as well as in 477 classrooms classified as in good condition;
(iii) construction of 110 new pre-school classrooms and 120 new primary
education classrooms, covered horizontal connectors in those schools which
will warrant substitution of classrooms, and no more than 4 teacher
housing modules in those very disperse schools where no supply from
neighboring communities can be found; (iv) construction of 111 new Multi
Service Modules (MMS), which will include the distant education component
and the basic administrative module in each head of the primary-school
networks; (v) remodeling of classrooms in disuse for lodging facilities in
14 disperse primary-school network centers; and (vi) furnishing for all
classrooms and furniture and equipment of the other educational facilities
included in the Project.
It has been agreed with FONCODES that they will be the executing agency of
the civil works program and that the PCU of MECEP in the Ministry will
carry-out the general coordination and the furnishing and equipment of the
completed infrastructure, in close coordination with FONCODES.
It has been agreed that the preventive maintenance program for all
infrastructure considered during this First Phase of the Project will be
implemented directly by the schools through the conformed Parents/Teachers
-3 -



associations with funds provided by the MED in an annual basis of
US$100/classroom, supervised and transferred through the administrative
mechanisms designed for the primary-school networks by the Ministry. These
funds would be considered as national counterpart funds of the Project.
The OINFE Unit of MED will review the existing maintenance manuals and
reedit them to distribute to all project-schools and would also coordinate
annual training seminars for school and community participating agents.
Component 3: Reform of Teacher Policy and Education Management
(US$17.8 million, 15W of total project cost)
Systemic reforms of teacher policy and education management are crucial
for improving the quality of basic education and the efficiency of
education spending. A key objective of the proposed program is to support
the new Government's efforts to address politically sensitive issues in
these areas that have been among the most important constraints to
educational progress in Peru. Although the reforms of teacher policy and
education management will be national in scope, they have particularly
important implications for schools in rural areas, which have suffered the
most from teacher shortages, low quality and low motivation linked to
inadequate standards and incentives, and from a centralized system of
education management that has failed to monitor and support rural
schools.
This component has six inter-related sub-components: I) reform of teacher
policy; ii) reform of education management; iii) support for school
development; iv) standardized student assessment; v) policy research; and
vi) project management.
3.1 Reform of teacher policy
The purpose of this component would be to support MOE in the process of
implementing the teacher career reform, including installing the new
teacher management, certification and evaluation system, and the ISP
accreditation system. Specifically the component would finance (i)
national workshops to inform teachers on the changes to be implemented;
(ii) design and implementation of the teacher management system, including
recruitment, selection, remuneration, incentives, promotion, professional
development and periodic certification. The new teaching career structure
and organization is expected to be in full operation by year 2005; and (b)
a proposal for implementation of new accreditation standards for teacher
training institutes designed to ensure higher-level teacher competence.
Investments will include consultancies and software development and
implementation.
3.2 Reform of education management
This sub-component will support the Government's efforts to "invert the
pyramid" of education administration in Peru, by strengthening the focus
on school-level results. The reform will increase autonomy and community
voice in decision making at the school level; establish networks in rural
areas to provide support for isolated rural schools; transform duplicative
and ineffective district offices into a new structure for local
supervision and support to schools; and increase the accountability of
regional departments for the performance of schools in their region.
- 4 -



During Phase I, this sub-component will focus on: (a) establishing and
training elected school councils in the 3369 schools in the project
areas; (b) establishing and training 428 Rural School Networks (Redes
Educativas Rurales) in the project areas; and (c) redefining the functions
and upgrading the staffing of sub-central offices (Erganos Intermedios) -
renamed UEPs -- to prepare them for a new role in monitoring and
supporting the performance of schools and school networks.
3.3. School Development Fund
This sub-component will support the implementation of school-level
improvement programs developed and managed by the Rural School Networks.
Since the ultimate objective of the education system is to support
improvements at the school level, each school council will develop a
school improvement plan. Individual schools will work through their
Networks to support each other in diagnosing problems, setting priorities,
and developing credible, time-bound action plans for achieving their
individual school goals. As a Network, the schools will ensure that these
school level plans aggregate into a Network development plan that
represents a coherent strategy for the sub-region.     The new UEPs will
review and approve Network Development plans.
To assist schools in implementing their improvement plans, a School
Development Fund will be established, which will channel resources to
individual schools through their Networks. Under Phase I, the program will
finance the implementation of . School development plans. Because of the
newness of this process, implementation will be gradual: in the first
project year: 30 PIEs; second year, 100; and third year: 70. The amount
available for each project will be defined based on the size and
characteristics of four types of school networks. The IE and the MED will
be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the process, the use of
resources, and results. Investment will be made to finance 200 PIEs in the
three-year Phase I and their adequate management.
3.4 National Assessment System
This sub-component will help UMC: (a) continue to strengthen its technical
capacity; (b) develop and administer the 2004 national assessment in
language and mathematics for 2nd and 6th grade primary education
students, and 4th grade secondary education students (including tests in
three native languages, namely quechua, aimara and aguaruna); (c) develop
and administer, in collaboration with the rural school networks, a
census-based application of the 2004 assessment in the project
implementation areas; and (d) carry out a longitudinal study covering
children tested in 2001 aiming to assess trends for grades 4, 5 and 6 at
the primary level.
Assistance under the program will help the UMC team develop a regular
testing program (as opposed to one-shot test), strengthen its expertise,
support consulting services, test application and analysis, timely and
user-friendly dissemination of assessment results to schools, networks and
regional offices, and related printing.
3.5 Policy-oriented Research and Evaluation Studies
- 5-



The definition of several Phase II elements of the APL will depend on the
results of evaluation studies conducted under Phase I.     Studies to be
financed under this sub-component will be defined during appraisal.
3.6 Project Management
Project management and more precisely the operation of the Project
Coordination Unit - PCU will be financed by the Project. MED has
confirmed that the existing MECEP PCU, which successfully managed the
implementation of the recently closed World Bank-funded Primary Education
Quality Improvement Project, will be maintained as the PCU for the
upcoming Rural Education and Teacher Development Project. As part of the
MED organizational revamping effort, the PCU will become a section of the
MED Strategic Planning and Budget Office. It is hoped that this
integration will contribute to a simplification and acceleration of
project management. An Operations Manual (OM) is under preparation by the
MED. During the appraisal mission, a timetable for preparing the
preliminary and final versions of the OM will be agreed. Compliance with
this timetable is expected to be a condition for effectiveness.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Project will be targeted to rural areas. Initially, 11 departments
have been selected. The final list will be agreed on during appraisal.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The environmental impact of the project is expected to be
insignificant since only rehabilitation of schools will be financed. MOE
is not projecting any growth in primary schools and any infrastructure for
the preschool classrooms or secondary program would be linked to existing
schools. During project preparation, a set of guidelines were prepared for
the project's civil works in order to incorporate simple environmental
rules for project design, evaluation, and supervision.
FONCODES, the executing unit for the works component, has already
implemented environmental assessment and mitigation measures into the
project cycle. The above guidelines would be used to enrich the FONCODES
procedures in order to strengthen two areas where the environmental
safeguards were weaker, that is project screening and supervision.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    Yes
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
- 6 -



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
A review of the legal framework shows that ethnic, cultural and language
diversity are recognized, valued and supported by the State. The
constitution recognizes ethnic and cultural diversity and all native
language as official in Peru. The General Law of Education as well as
other laws related to education (including the ILO Convention no. 169)
decree that bilingual education is a right for all indigenous peoples
whenever feasible. These principles are all reflected in the Supreme
Decree creating the "Direcci6n de Educaci6n Bilingue Intercultural"
currently responsible for the bilingual education program.
A social assessment was carried out during the preparation of the
project. The Bilingual Intercultural Education Program has been evaluated
both in terms of educational and social impacts. In addition, there have
been numerous consultation processes (see 6.2) which have raised key
issues that will be included into the project design. There are four main
groups of issues identified which are being incorporated into the project
design and are reflected in the Indigenous Peoples Strategy (see Annex 11):
Pedagogical practice in the classroom. Even though the curricular reform
has had an impact in the classroom in terms of promoting a more horizontal
and group-work oriented learning, there is still evidence that teachers
still remain hierarchical and may show a discriminatory behavior,
particularly to indigenous children. Bilingual materials are welcome by
teachers, but further training is needed to ensure full utilization in the
classroom. The use of the mother tongue is common but is typically mixed
with Spanish in a haphazard way. The reason for this may be the lack of
materials for teaching Spanish as a second language and that parents press
teachers to introduce Spanish as early as possible. There are indications
that vernacular languages are being revalued socially thanks to their use
in the classroom.   The curricular reform and the limited introduction of
materials and teacher training are still not reflected in student
performance results where third grade children still have difficulties in
reading and writing in their mother tongue. Children often need to share
their schooling with chores in the house or farm, with the consequent
absences, particularly during harvest periods.
Community participation. Parents' participation is limited to the
contribution of manual labor in the conservation and rehabilitation of
school infrastructure. Whenever possible, parents also make financial
contributions to purchase basic goods for the school. This limited
participation results mainly because traditionally schools have
marginalizado parents. Thus, parents are not aware about the objectives
of the bilingual education and the advantages in the use of mother tongue
in their children's education.
The project will address these issues by creating flexibility in the
implementation of the curriculum, promoting active and effective community
- 7-



participation. Training of teachers in multigrade classroom management
skills, cultural awareness, planning and bilingual education (where
pertinent) will also be key areas, linked to teacher incentives. Greater
supervision and support to teachers will also receive prominent attention
in the Project. School autonomy actions will include community
participation both as contributors to the educational process as well as a
means for accountability.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
None anticipated
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
None anticipated
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not applicable
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
In order to address the main issues found with respect to bilingual and
intercultural education MOE has developed a 10 step strategy which
revolves around strengthening on one hand, the links with the community,
and, on the other, the pedagogical processes in the classroom:
Community Consultation and Participation Program. MOE has planned a
continuous consultation process on the design, execution and evaluation of
the proposed strategies and activities. These process will complement
other consultation processes already included in the project design such
as the School Councils and Network Councils. The main instruments for the
consultation process will include "Mesas de Dialogo", Regional
Consultative Councils, indigenous and bilingual teachers conferences, and
intercultural events directed to students, teachers and parents. A strong
dissemination program is also planned in order to sensitize? Parents on
the value of the bilingual program, the need for and value of
intercultural education and promotion of self-esteem.
Strengthening Pedagogical Processes. DINEBI has already produced
materials in 15 Andean and Amazon basin languages for math, language,
social and natural sciences, and Spanish as a second language. The
strategy calls for further validation and development of new complementary
materials for students and teachers. Secondly, the strategy aims at
strengthening pre-service and in-service teacher training on bilingual and
multigrade education. Thirdly, research studies will be promoted on
languages and culture of a number of indigenous peoples on numeric
systems, cognitive process development, children's ethnography and child
rearing practices. Finally, the school calendar will be adapted to the
agricultural cycle.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
There have been a number of consultation processes carried out in Peru in
recent years, both as part of the project as well as Bank and GOP
- 8 -



initiatives: 1. National Consultation with Indigenous Peoples. Two
consultations were carried out with Andean and Amazonian People's in
January and June 1998. Participants included representatives from
religious groups, community based organizations, community members and
technicians.
2. Beneficiary assessment. This was based on a survey applied to 1,500
teachers, classroom observation, and meetings with students and their
parents.
3. Poverty fora. Based on a joint effort between GOP, NGOs and
International Organizations, Peru has been carrying out yearly Poverty
fora addressing specific topics and where education was included in the
1998 Forum dealing with successful poverty alleviation experiences and in
the 1999 Forum which discussed access to public services for the poor.
4. National consultation on education. During the transition government
(January - July 2001) MOE carried out this process which collected answers
to 38 question to the population on issues related to quality of
education, teachers, school autonomy, corruption etc. Responses came in
from all regions in the country representing the voices of teachers,
parents, students, and local governments. Two documents were published
"Las Voces del PaUs" and "Propuesta para un Acuerdo Nacional por la
Educaci6n". As part of this consultation process, there were two main
events that addressed specifically the issue of incorporating
Intercultural and Bilingual Education in the Acuerdo Nacional. The first
consultation had as its main theme education and the challenge of
diversity ("La Educaci6n y los DesafUos de la Diversidad"). This process
included representatives from indigenous organizations form the Andes and
the Amazon basin, such as community federations, associations, regional
organizations, bilingual teachers, NGOs, universities, intercultural and
bilingual education experts, representatives from Congress and the
Ombudsman's offices and from the Ministry of Women (PROMUDEH). The result
of this consultation was published in a document called "Los DesafUos de
la Diversidad". The second consultation process was focused on the issue
of policies and strategies for Bilingual and Intercultural Education. The
result of this consultation process, which include as diverse a group as
the previous one, was the document "PolUtica Nacional de Lenguas y
Culturas en la Educaci6n" (National Policies on Languages and Cultures)
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
-9-



Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              3/20/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 4/11/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           4/8/2002
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Livia M. Benavides       04/09/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Alonso Zarzar    04/09/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         04/09/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         William Experton         04/09/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 10 -



