Page  1
August 6, 1999
Ing. Victor Joy Way
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Lima, Peru
Re:  Japanese Grant for Rural Education and Teacher Training 
Development Project 
Grant TF025935
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of 
grant funds provided by the Government of Japan, to make a grant in an amount 
not exceeding two hundred and twenty four thousand dollars ($224,000) (the 
Grant) to the Republic of Peru (the Recipient). This is part of the total 
grant of $448,000 made available by the Government of Japan for this Project.
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its 
request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to 
contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this 
Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter 
Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Pierre Werbrouck
Acting Country Director, 
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Efrain Goldenberg Schreiber
By /s/ Fernando 
de Trazegnies Granda
Minister of Economy and Finance
Minister of 
Foreign Affairs
Date:
February 9, 2000
Date:
February 18, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Rural 
Education and Teacher Training Development Project, (the Project). The 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
Page  2
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out and 
dissemination of results of several studies in the following areas:
Rural Education
(a) definition and development of rural school networks, curricula and 
teaching methods (school based and distance learning-based) for rural 
schools, and training and materials for bilingual education (Spanish as a 
second language) and multi-grade teaching; (b) assessment of demand for 
bilingual education, and for rural teachers, facilities and student 
subsidies; (c) design of information campaigns, communication mechanisms and 
support for community involvement in rural education; and  (d) development of 
revised functions for central and local offices of the Recipient’s Ministry 
of Education to support rural education, including recommendations for 
setting up financial and procurement systems for project implementation.
Teacher Training
(a) assessment of strengths and weaknesses of current teacher training 
for pre-and in service basic education candidates and teachers; (b) design of 
an integrated training system based on quantitative and qualitative 
requirements and cost effectiveness considerations; and (c) design a system 
for performance-based assessment and incentives for teachers.
Information and Evaluation
Design of comprehensive systems for evaluation of progress towards 
project objectives and results, including support for promising innovations 
and enhanced availability and use of educational information technology.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for 
the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  
The Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit 
the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to 
evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of 
claims against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or 
external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by July 1, 2000.  
After that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the 
Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) 
required to assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the 
responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s 
applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied 
by, or in the territory of, the Republic of Peru on the Consultants or any of 
the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents 
thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate 
the Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the 
Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, 
terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the 
Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) 
the Recipient has failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter 
Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which 
the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Peru, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been 
suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive 
Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with 
Page  3
the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient 
has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in the financing of the 
Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall 
not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank 
pursuant to this Agreement.
