                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR0000862




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-71760)




                                       ON A

                           LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                (US$52.5 MILLION)

                                        TO

                             THE REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                      FOR A

                          RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
                   IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
                         RURAL EDUCATION PROGRAM




                                   June 25, 2008




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective June 25, 2008)

              Currency Unit = Peruvian Nuevo Sol (PEN)
                            1.00 = US$ 0.33
                         US$ 1.00 = PEN 3.00

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 ­ December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APAFA     Parents Association (Asociación de Padres de Familia)
APL       Adaptable Program Lending
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CEI       Initial Education Centers for 3-5 year-old children (Centros de Educación
          Inicial)
COMPFE    Comisión de Coordinación y Administración para la Ejecución de Proyectos
          con Financiamiento Externo del Ministerio de Educación also known as the
          PCU
CONEI     Institutional School Council (Consejo Educativo Institucional)
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DfID      United Kingdom's Department for International Development
DRE       Regional Education Directorates (Dirección Regional de Educación)
DGPM      General Director of Public Sector Multi-Annual Programming (Dirección
          General de Programación Multianual)
ESMED     Secondary     Distance  Education    Model     (Educación    Secundaria  con
          Metodología a Distancia)
FMRs      Financial Management Reports
FONCODES  National Social Development and Compensation Fund (Fondo Nacional de
          Compensación y Desarrollo Social)
GOP       Government of Peru
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDB       Inter American Development Bank
ISR       Implementation Status Results and Reports
LA        Loan Agreement
MED       Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educación)
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCN       Project Concept Note
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Developmental Objectives
PEAR      Rural Education Project (Proyecto de Educación en Areas Rurales)

PEI            Institucional Educational Project (Proyecto Educativo Institucional)
POA            Annual Operational Plan (Plan Operativo Anual)
PHRD           Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
PRONAMACHCSNational Program for Hidrological Basin Management and Soil Conservation
               (Programa Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas y Conservación de Suelos)
PSRL           Programmatic Social Reform Loan
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
QEA            Quality at Entry Assessment
REACT DPL      Results and Accountability Development Policy Loan
TTIs           Teacher Training Institutions
PRONOEI        Non Formal Inicial Education for 3-5 year-old children (Programa No
               Escolarizado de Educación Inicial)
SINEACE        National Educational Assessment and Certification System (Sistema
               Nacional de Acreditación y Certificación Educativa)
SNIP           National Public Investment System (Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública)
TTL            Task Team Leader
UGEL           Local Educational Management Units (Unidad de Gestión Educativa Local)
USAID          United States Agency for International Development


             Vice President: Pamela Cox
           Country Director: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
             Sector Director: Evangeline Javier
            Sector Manager: Eduardo Velez-Bustillo
        Project Team Leader: Livia Benavides
          ICR Team Leader: Livia Benavides
        ICR Primary Author: Juan Prawda

                                             COUNTRY
                           RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
                   IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
                          RURAL EDUCATION PROGRAM

                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 13
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 20
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 27
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 27
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 36
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 38
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 39
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 41
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 47
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 49
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 52
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 53
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 54
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 55
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 56
 MAP

A. Basic Information

Country:               Peru                   Project Name:          Rural Education Project
Project ID:            P055232                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-71760
ICR Date:              06/26/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    APL                    Borrower:
                                                                     PERU
Original Total
                       USD 52.5M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 29.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministerio de Educacion
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/28/2001    Effectiveness:         04/15/2004         04/15/2004
Appraisal:             04/02/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/29/2003    Mid-term Review:       10/16/2006         12/01/2006
                                     Closing:               12/31/2007         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings

Quality at Entry:      Moderately                                    Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision:Moderately             Implementing           Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank           Moderately             Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:           Unsatisfactory         Performance:           Unsatisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry      Satisfactory



                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               20               16
Pre-primary education                                           20                6
Primary education                                               20               71
Secondary education                                             20                5
Tertiary education                                              20                2


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                             Primary          Primary
Indigenous peoples                                           Secondary        Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                        David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Carlos Felipe Jaramillo           Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:           Eduardo Velez Bustillo            Marito H. Garcia
Project Team Leader:      Livia M. Benavides                Livia M. Benavides
ICR Team Leader:          Livia M. Benavides
ICR Primary Author:       Juan Prawda



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Program will support the Peruvian government's objective of improving the quality
and equity of basic education through focused investments in rural areas with the lowest
education indicators and through systemic reforms of teacher policy and education
management.

  This Project is the first one of a three-phase APL. Under Phase I, financing would be
provided to support the implementation of key reforms of teaching and system



                                               ii

management, initiate the investments in rural school infrastructure and quality
enhancements, and pilot and evaluate alternative models of distance education at the
secondary level. Specifically, the Project will: (a) expand access to formal and non-
formal initial and pre-school programs         in rural areas; (b) pilot and evaluate three
different modalities of distance education in 116 secondary schools in the targeted rural
areas; (c) improve primary school quality in rural areas through specially designed
professional development programs for rural teachers focused on multigrade and
bilingual education, distribution of improved learning materials, and rehabilitation of
infrastructure where needed; and (d) raise sector efficiency through the implementation
of the first phase of teacher policy reforms, restructuring of regional offices, initiating a
decentralization process leading to more autonomous schools, with community voice in
management, and organizing rural school support network. To monitor quality and guide
corrective strategies, the new national system of student assessment would be
strengthened.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                             documents)           Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Percentage of 11 year-old children enrolled in sixth grade or higher in rural areas
                increases by 0.6 percentage points.

Value           37.08% (rural)                                                41.70% (rural)

quantitative or 44.27% (project area)     37.66%                              50.21%

Qualitative)                                                                  (project area)

Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/01/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        770% (rural)

achievement)    990% (project area)

Indicator 2 :   Percentage of 11 year-old children enrolled in grades 5 and lower will not
                increase
Value
quantitative or 67.1%                     67.1% (or less)                     NA
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Data not available
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Rural 11 year-old children who do not go to school decreases by 0.7 percentage
                points
Value
quantitative or 7.41%                     6.71%                               3.87%



                                               iii

Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        -505%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   375,000 children received bilingual materials and their teachers trained
Value
quantitative or 0                         375,000                            239,520
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                  12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        68%
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Rural pre-school coverage (0-2 years) increases
Value
quantitative or 1%                         4.7%                              NA
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Data not available
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   Rural pre-school coverage (3-5 years) increases by 5.5 percentage points
Value
quantitative or 48.09%                     53.59%                            54.79%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        122%
achievement)

Indicator 7 :   Secondary school gross enrollment ratio in rural areas increases by 8 percentage
                points
Value
quantitative or 71,39%                     79.39%                            77.74%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        79%
achievement)

Indicator 8 :   Secondary school coverage at grade 1 for 12 or less year-old youngsters in rural
                areas increases by 3.3 percentage points

Value           37.08% (rural)                                               41.70% (rural)

quantitative or 44.27% (PEAR districts) 40.3% (rural)                        50.21% (PEAR

Qualitative)                                                                 districts)

Date achieved 12/01/2003                  12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        140% (rural)

achievement)    180% (PEAR districts)



                                               iv

Indicator 9 :  Learning outcomes of children in target Project Areas showed improvement on
               national assessment at the primary level
Value
quantitative or2.3% (language)                                              NA
Qualitative)   1.3% (math)

Date achieved 12/01/2004                                                    12/31/2007
Comments       The preliminary findings of the new learning assessment measurement to be
(incl. %       administered end of 2008 will allow some comparisons with the baseline data
achievement)   for the treated as well as for the control groups.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                     Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values  Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of teachers trained in the use of bilingual materials.
Value
(quantitative  0                           15,000                           13,952
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   12/01/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       93%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Number of teachers trained in the use of multigrade methodology and materials.
Value
(quantitative  0                           3,800                            1,513
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   12/01/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       93%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Number of classrooms refurbished and/or built in Project areas.
Value
(quantitative  0                           1,900                            293
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   12/01/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       15%
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Number of PEI's (Educational Strategic Plan) with CONEI-RED (Network
               councils) approval.
Value
(quantitative  0                           300                              0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   12/01/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       0%



                                                 v

achievement)

Indicator 5 :  Percentage of municipal networks with at least eight coordination meetings per
               year.
Value
(quantitative  0                        70                                 0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                12/01/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       0%
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived             DO                          IP                 Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/23/2003         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/22/2003         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     06/08/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.53
  4     11/10/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.38

  5     04/29/2005    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately
                                                   Unsatisfactory                      4.01

  6     09/06/2005    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately
                                                   Unsatisfactory                      6.94

  7     06/06/2006    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately
                                                   Unsatisfactory                     13.93

  8     06/07/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 14.67
  9     12/27/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 19.41
  10    05/18/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 22.15

  11    06/29/2007    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately
                                                   Unsatisfactory                     22.93

  12    10/19/2007    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately
                                                   Unsatisfactory                     25.25

  13    12/21/2007          Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                     26.49



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other docjuments, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

At the time of project preparation (2003), 28 percent of Peru's population lived in rural
areas, characterized by poverty, cultural diversity, geographic dispersion and
inaccessibility to public services, such as education and health. About 90 percent of the
rural population lived in clusters of less than 500 inhabitants; 60 percent were poor, 37
percent were below the extreme ("food-only") poverty line and a third spoke one of
Peru's 42 indigenous languages. Social indicators for these populations were also much
below those for urban population: (i) rural women averaged only 4.9 years of education
as compared to 9.1 years for urban women; and (ii) infant mortality rate was 58 per 1,000
life births in rural areas as compared to 32 per 1,000 life births in urban areas.

Although Peru had done an impressive job over the previous last two decades in
achieving universal access to primary schooling, average schooling attainment and
student learning were sharply lower in rural than in urban areas. While gross enrollment
rates of about 93 percent were similar for rural and urban areas in (2003), on-time
completion rates in rural primary schools were 20 percent as compared to 57 percent in
urban areas. This was a result of high repetition and dropout rates in rural areas (dropout
rates in rural areas were 10.1 percent, far higher than 2.1 percent in urban areas) as well
as late entry into the system (23.4 percent of poor rural children entering first grade of
primary school were over-aged as compared to 14.2 percent in urban areas; an estimated
63 percent of Quechua-speaking children attending primary school were over-aged). A
1996 national learning assessment of children in the fourth grade found that only 38.5
percent of rural school children mastered at least 9 out of 14 basic competencies,
compared to 63.5 percent of urban school children. Findings of the 2001 learning
assessment showed that children in multi-grade schools in rural areas performed well
below those in multi-teacher schools in urban areas, and that Quechua- and Aymara-
speaking children scored worst of all, performing in the bottom 1% of the distribution of
reading comprehension scores.

Issues.    The Project attempted to address the following three key relevant issues
underpinning the above-mentioned disparities in the educational sector: (a) low education
access in rural areas; (b) low quality of rural schools; and (c) dysfunctional education
management system.

(a) At the time of project preparation (2003) Peru displayed low coverage in both pre-
school and initial education as well as in secondary education in rural areas. Exposure to
early childhood development programs (mainly through non-formal childcare and parent
training) and to formal pre-school education has been shown worldwide to stimulate early
brain development, avoid malnutrition and stunting, boost primary school readiness and
subsequent learning attainment, especially among economically disadvantaged poor and



                                              1

indigenous children, such as those living in rural areas. Despite the fact that one year of
pre-school education was (and continues to be) mandatory in Peru, in 2003 only 56
percent of rural 3-5 year old children had access to pre-schooling, compared to 67 percent
in urban areas. At the time, the Government of Peru (GOP) had not yet developed an
overall strategy for mainstreaming pre-school access in rural areas or supporting the
delivery of non-formal initial education programs to target population.

The net enrollment rate in secondary education in rural areas was 28 percent in 2003 as
compared to 57 percent in urban areas. Peru's extremely low population density and
poor roads and transportation in most rural areas made expansion of secondary education
using traditional face-to-face instructional models prohibitively expensive and thus
favored the implementation of distance-learning education models. According to the
2001 national learning evaluation, where secondary schools did exist in rural areas,
quality was usually lower than that of urban schools.

(b) The low quality of rural schools was linked to: (i) low effective time on task (hours of
instruction) by teachers; (ii) ill-adapted curriculum and teaching methods; and (iii) poor
teacher quality and motivation. About 90 percent of rural primary schools in the country
were small multi-grade schools in isolated communities having difficulties in attracting
and retaining well-prepared teachers because of the prevailing harsh physical and
environmental living conditions.      Teacher housing in these communities was often
rudimentary, if it existed at all, prompting many teachers to leave their schools for distant
towns on the weekend, running the risk of not arriving back on time for class, or having
to leave before the end of the school-week, because of limited transportation. In addition,
teachers had to leave their schools several times a month to collect their paycheck and
needed teaching supplies for the school in the provincial capital city, attend training
sessions and comply with administrative procedures, forcing them to leave classrooms
unattended at least several days per month. These factors, combined with high student
absenteeism linked to families' need for children's labor, contributed to very low
effective hours of instruction during the school calendar year in rural areas ­ between an
average of 200 to 250 hours per year as compared with the nationally mandated 900
hours during the school calendar year.

Teachers in multi-grade rural schools, usually were not trained in multi-grade teaching
methods, and thus found it difficult to adapt and implement the existing primary
curriculum.    In addition, students in rural areas lacked the self-paced instructional
materials that were considered essential for effective teaching and learning in multi-grade
settings. Finally, the centralized teacher deployment system in existence at the time of
project preparation failed to ensure that teachers could speak the local language and be
able to deliver bilingual education in the early grades of primary schools in rural areas.

While the formal level of qualifications of Peru's teaching force is high, with some 95
percent of teachers holding tertiary education degrees, their average teaching
performance is considered quite low as compared with other countries of similar level of
income.    The following are key issues underpinning low teacher motivation and
performance in the rural areas: (i) mismatch between supply and demand causing an



                                              2

oversupply of teachers in urban areas and a deficit in the rural areas; (ii) unregulated low
quality pre-service teacher preparation; (iii) low and unclear standards for entry into the
teaching profession; (iv) low pay and inadequate incentives; (v) duality of treatment
between appointed and contracted teachers; and (vi) poor teacher deployment and
supervision.

Peru is a country with very limited formal employment opportunities and also limited
opportunities for secondary graduates to study at the tertiary level.         Thus, despite
unattractive pay, because of the unconditional, rigid stability attached to tenured status,
the teaching profession became an opportunity to easily enter the job market, with full-
life tenure, through an accessible training. As a result, there was a massive and growing
oversupply of teachers. In 2001, some 270,000 teachers were employed, while another
80,000 had a title but no position. The pre-service teacher training system produced
between 15,000 and 20,000 graduates a year against needs of about 4,000. As mentioned
before, while on the aggregate there was an oversupply of teachers in urban areas for
primary level, ironically there were at the same time shortages in specific categories (pre-
school, multi-grade, secondary and bilingual education).

There was an absence of an accreditation and quality certification system regulating the
entire public and private pre-service teacher training institutions in the country (53
universities with faculties of education and 400 Higher Institutes of Pedagogy, 250 of
which were private). This unregulated proliferation of, by and-large, low-quality training
programs had produced a dramatic increase of badly trained teachers. In addition, the
disparities and deficiencies in teacher preparation were not corrected at entry into the
teaching profession through rigorous and sound certification procedures prior to
appointment. Hiring of new teachers was not based on formal teaching standards and
rigorous procedures. Notwithstanding that recruitment tests were introduced in 1998,
these were not criterion-based and did not evaluate the pedagogical ability,
methodological skills, interpersonal and team skills as well as the community orientation
of the candidates.

The average teacher salary in Peru at the lending phase was approximately 1.6 times of
the gross domestic product per capita compared to a multiple of 2 to 4 times in similar
countries. This was low pay, even after adjusting for average hours of work, which were
less in Peru than in other Latin American countries, and less for teachers than for other
professions in the country. As a result, about 57 percent of the teaching force had taken
up a second job further eroding the already limited time on task teachers could dedicate
to their schools. The salary structure existing at that time was fragmented and opaque,
hardly designed to promote quality, generate motivation or produce results.            Most
important, the allocation for rural areas and hardship posts was not only insufficient, but
also portable, instead of being tied to the job position. In addition, some teachers had
permanent appointment status, while others worked under fixed term contracts. The fact
that there was no relationship between teachers' qualifications and employment status
had been a constant source of teacher lack of motivation and discontent. Finally, the
centralized teacher deployment system had not ensured an appropriate allocation of
teachers based on their language skills and/or their previous teaching experience.



                                              3

Accordingly, many inexperienced teachers were posted to rural schools, while others
lacking language skills other than Spanish were posted to Quechua and Aymara, as well
as other areas speaking other indigenous languages.

(c) The difficulties in the education management system were mainly manifested by: (i)
an inefficient administration; (ii) a deficient school supervision and support; and (iii) low
accountability of school performance. The central Ministry of Education (MED) shared
the responsibilities for nationwide provision of educational services (from pre-school to
tertiary education) with 24 Regional Education Directorates (DRE), which varied
considerably in terms of geographic size, school system development and student
population, ranging from Lima with over 2.1 million students to Madre de Dios, with less
than 29,000 students. A director headed each DRE. Between the DREs and the schools
level, there were 268 sub-regional offices known as Local Educational Management
Units (UGELs) entrusted with administrative oversight, some of which also had a
budgetary authority. The MED was heavily centralized and inefficient.               Top-down
initiatives emanated regularly from the central level with little concern for prioritization,
avoiding duplication and losing implementation effect in the cascade-type delivery by the
time they reached the schools. At the DRE there was little autonomy for decision making
as well as accountability for the performance of schools in their region. Data on school
performance and student learning was not organized and monitored at the DRE level, and
DREs were neither rewarded nor sanctioned for their progress in improving educational
indicators over time. System-wide, there was a lack of focus on the school level for
attaining results. For example, at the time of project preparation there was not yet in
place a standardized system of student assessment to track learning outcomes.
There were also clear problems at the UGEL level, which were marked by confusing
geographic and functional demarcation of responsibilities, inadequate staffing and
equipment for them to carry out their duties and low valued added to their schools under
their responsibility. There was no systematic school-level development planning at the
school level. Plans, where they existed, were not resourced, nor were they used as an
instrument to hold schools accountable for implementing proposed improvements,
especially in the learning dimension. Schools did not have budgetary autonomy, and
could not even undertake minor purchases or repairs. Parents were invited to serve on
Parents Association (Asociación de Padres de Familia, APAFAs) basically designed to
collect money to benefit the school with additional inputs, such as inter-alia,
infrastructure and fungible materials.

Finally, communication and access problems made contact between rural schools,
regional education offices and the MED sporadic to non-existent. In a case study carried
out during 2000, rural schools reported less than one supervision visit per year.

Government's Strategy. Prior to the identification of this project, the GOP launched an
effort to bring together all the key stakeholders from political, religious, civil society and
government organizations in order to agree on key state policies, especially in the social
sector. The result was the establishment of a social pact within the framework of a
National Agreement setting, which established under its second objective the key policy
to provide universal access to free quality public education. Specific sub-policies under



                                               4

this major one included Early Childhood Development, Rural Education, Teacher
Development and Strengthening the Quality and Relevance of Basic Education through
greater school autonomy. Under these key policies, the GOP aimed at reducing the large
disparities in schooling access and completion between rural and urban areas to achieve a
substantial increase in the quality and efficiency of the education system overall.

The GOP determined that a holistic approach was necessary to address the issues
described above and designed the following mutually reinforcing strategies: (i)
improvement in education coverage and quality in the rural areas where 28 percent of
Peru's population lived; (ii) increase in the quality of teacher preparation and in-service
training through the introduction of teacher standards, teacher career path, continuous
training and incentives mechanisms; (iii) overhaul of the education system management
to increase accountability for results through decentralization, clarified governmental
attributions and responsibilities and better measurement of outcomes so that actors at all
levels could be held accountable for results; (iv) education for democracy and
intercultural sensitivity through curriculum modifications and stronger emphasis in
bilingual education; (v) indigenous peoples strategy to address one third of the national
population speaking one of Peru's 42 indigenous languages; and (vi) demand-driven
interventions to complement the traditional supply-driven interventions.

Accordingly, the GOP and the World Bank (Bank) agreed on a ten-year Adaptable
Program Loan (APL), to be carried out in three phases lasting four (Phase I 2004-2007),
three (Phase II 2008-2010) and three (Phase III 2011-2013) years respectively, to help
design evaluate and implement these policies and institutional reforms and allocate the
needed financial, human and physical investment (more detail on the other two phases of
the proposed APL is provided in section 5.1(a) of this Implementation Completion and
Results Report - ICR).

Rationale for Bank's Assistance. The rationale for the Bank's assistance was argued on
the basis of the Bank's extensive experience in supporting projects in rural education,
with strong multi-grade, bilingual and intercultural components. In addition, the Bank
preparation team made the case concerning the Bank's wide experience with
decentralization programs where local communities played an important role in the
setting and implementation of social policies. The experience gained by the Bank in
Central America, Brazil and Colombia in these areas was seen as instrumental in assisting
MED's efforts in developing quality education in rural areas in a more decentralized and
effective fashion. Finally, the Bank had already been working extensively with the GOP
in the early implementation of the proposed reforms set for in the National Agreement.
The proposed Project was tied to previous Bank-financed investments in the education
sector in Peru, some closed and some under preparation while others were still ongoing
investments at the time of Board approval : (i) the Programmatic Social Reform Loans
(PSRL I, Loan 4615-PE and II Loan 4678-PE, under preparation) promoting education
policy reform through the development of the new teacher career structure and the
piloting of a rural teacher incentive program, as well as providing the first steps towards
decentralization and community participation; (ii) the Primary Education Quality Project
(Loan 3826-PE, closed) to support expansion of access and improvement of education



                                              5

quality for the poor; (iii) the FONCODES II ­ Second Social Development and
Compensation Fund Project(Loan 4068-PE, closed) to support infrastructure in rural
areas; (iv) the National Program for Hidrological Basin Management and Soil
Conservation (Programa Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas y Conservación de Suelos,
PRONAMACHCS) (Loan 4130-PE, ongoing) to promote rural development; (v) the Basic
Health and Nutrition Project (Loan 3701-PE, closed) and Health Reform Project (Loan
4527-PE, ongoing) to promote rural health; and (vi) the Rural Roads Project, under
preparation.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The Rural Education Project (Project) known in Spanish as Proyecto de Educación en
Áreas Rurales (PEAR) was intended to be the first phase of a ten-year Program aimed at
improving the quality and equity of basic education through cost-effective investments
and systemic reforms of teacher quality and education management.          According to
Section A.2 and Annex 1 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) dated April 30, 2003
and Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (LA) dated December 5, 2003, the objectives of
the Project (the first phase of the long-term Program) were to: (a) expand access in
priority rural areas to early childhood development and pre-school programs and
secondary school; (b) improve primary education quality in rural areas through teacher
professional development, provision of multi-grade and bilingual education materials and
rehabilitation of infrastructure where needed; and (c) improve efficiency system-wide by
introducing a major reform of teacher policy and system management.

The following key outcome indicators (appearing in Section A.3 and Annex 1 to the
PAD), were agreed with the GOP at the Loan approval stage. For the long-term ten-year
Program, outside the scope of the Project, the agreed outcome indicators were: (a)
primary completion rates aiming to reach 97 percent by 2013; (b) rural initial education
coverage for 0-2 year-olds increased from 1 to 9.7 percent by 2013 and net pre-school
coverage for 3-5 year-old children increased from 58.9 to 81 percent by 2013; (c)
secondary school gross enrollment rate in rural areas increased from 37 to 55.5 percent
and rural secondary school coverage in grade 5 for youngsters less than 16 years old
increased from 8.8 to 16.6 by 2013; and (d) Peru's performance on national standardized
learning assessments improved.

For Phase I (2004-2007), the Project being assessed in this ICR, the agreed key
performance (outcome) indicators and targets were:
    · Percentage of 11 year-old children enrolled in sixth grade or higher in rural areas
        increased from 27.6 to 28.2 percent;
    · Percentage of 11 year-old children enrolled in grades 5 and lower will not
        increase beyond 67.1 percent;
    · Rural 11 year-old children who do not go to school decreased from 5.3 to 4.6
        percent;
    · 375,000 children received bilingual materials and their teachers trained;
    · Rural pre-school coverage (0-2 years) increased from 1 to 4.7 percent;



                                            6

     · Rural pre-school coverage (3-5 years) increased from 58.9 to 64.4 percent;
     · Secondary school gross enrollment ratio in rural areas increased from 37 percent
         to 45 percent;
     · Secondary school coverage at grade 1 for 12 or less year-old youngsters in rural
         areas increased from 8.8 to 12.1 percent; and
     · Learning outcomes of children in target Project Areas1 showed improvement on
         national assessment at the primary level.

In addition, the following trigger indicators were agreed with GOP to graduate to Phase II
of the APL (Section B.4 of the PAD):
     · Twenty five percent of teachers working in the Project Area undergo
         performance evaluation;
     · No less than 3,000 teachers in rural areas under incentive scheme;
     · About 3,040 teachers in rural areas trained in multi-grade methodology (which
         represent 80 percent of the total universe in Project Area estimated in 3,800
         teachers) and all rural schools in Project Area provided with quality learning
         materials;
     · About 7,500 primary bilingual teachers in the country (which represent 50
         percent of the total universe estimated in 15,000 teachers) trained in dual
         language instruction and redeployed in line with their acquired skills;
     · Assessment of teacher training programs carried out satisfactorily;
     · Under the framework of the management capacity build-up at the school level,
         about 250 Institutional School Councils (Consejos Educativos Institucionales -
         CONEIs) established in an equal number of rural schools and operating according
         to current regulations; and
     · At least 200 networks operating with the networked Institutional School Councils
         under approved Educational Institutional Projects (Proyectos Educativos
         Institucionales ­PEIs).

Annex 1 of the PAD also includes an extensive list of output indicators for each
component agreed for Phase I as well as preliminary outcome indicators for Phases II and
III of the APL and agreed triggers to graduate to Phase III. All these indicators are not
listed in this section of the ICR. However, Section 3.2 and Annex 2 of the ICR account
for the status on the achievement of the agreed triggers for the first phase as well as for
the implementation performance of each Project Components including the status of
some of their corresponding outputs at the time of the closing of the Loan.




1 According to Article I, Section 1.01(r) of the LA, "Project Areas" meant that originally the project
comprised the Regions of Amazonas, Ancash, Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Cusco, Huancavelica, Loreto, Piura,
Puno, San Martin and Ucayali, and any other Department that may be acceptable to the Bank in addition to,
or in substitution of, the above Regions .




                                                  7

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

PDO and key outcome and output indicators were not formally revised during project
implementation. As further explained in Sections 2.3 and 3.2 of the ICR, some of the key
outcome and output indicators included in the PAD were slightly modified in the ISRs
and are included in the ICR data sheet. These changes were implemented in order to
reflect the new methodology used by the Statistics Unit in MED to estimate efficiency
indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

Section C3 of the PAD stated that the Project would benefit rural children of all school
ages through increased coverage and quality of education. With respect to the expanding
access to be financed by the Project, the non-formal and formal pre-school education
aimed at benefiting 30,000 children 0-2 years old in rural areas, including a large
proportion of indigenous children and 38,000 additional children 3-5 years-old in pre-
school programs of which 11,000 would represent increased coverage financed by the
Project. In addition, the distance secondary education program was expected to benefit
approximately 5,000 rural students in 116 schools.

With respect to the quality interventions to be financed by the Project, the continuous
teacher training was aimed at benefiting 1,500 teacher trainers in public sector non-
university training institutions as well as 3,800 teachers in the Project area working in
multi-grade schools and 15,000 bilingual teachers nationwide. In addition, 330,000 rural
children in the Project Area and 375,000 indigenous children nationwide were expected
to benefit from all the quality-related interventions (provision of learning materials
including bilingual educational materials and improved teaching practices). Finally,
about 1,900 classrooms in poor rural areas were expected to benefit from rehabilitation or
substitution of infrastructure to be financed by the Project.

With respect to the reform of teacher policy and education management, the increased
school autonomy and the networks supported by the Project were expected to benefit
about 3,180 schools by allowing teachers and local communities to carry out local
planning and receiving closer and more frequent support from itinerant teacher support
groups. Finally, the Project was expected to restructure the 24 DREs and to strengthen
the statistical and student assessment systems.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The following three components were included in the Project's original design as fully
explained in Section C.1 and Annex 2 to the PAD and in Schedule 2 to the LA (more



                                              8

detail on the implementation of these components and their outputs is provided in Section
3.2 and Annex 2 to the ICR):

Component A ­ Expanding Education Access for Rural Children (Total Cost
US$10.54 million; US$6.97 million from the Loan). This component, representing about
11 percent of the total loan, aimed at financing access to quality: (i) initial (for 0-2 year-
old children) and pre-school education (for 3-5 year-old children) costing about US$2.71
million; and (ii) secondary distance education costing about US$7.83 million.

Activities under this component included, inter-alia: (a) carrying out baseline studies on
rural families' upbringing practices as well as other studies related to pre-school and
indigenous education; (b) design of alternative service delivery models for both initial
and secondary education; (c) preparation, publication and distribution of manuals and
training modules for facilitators of the initial modality (Animadoras), teacher
coordinators and parents; (d) production and dissemination of audiovisual educational
materials; (e) selection and procurement of other educational materials as well as
improvement and procurement of existing learning materials; (f) in-service teacher
training; (g) creation and delivery of pedagogical support mechanisms; (h) development
of community programs; and (i) the carrying out of several evaluation studies including
assessments of alternative initial education, integral care delivery models and secondary
distance education.

Component B ­ Improving Quality in Rural Primary Schools (Total Cost US$63.58
million; US$32.05 million from the Loan). This core component, representing about 68
percent of the total loan, aimed at financing: (i) continuous teacher training systems
costing about US$24.86 million; (ii) curricular adjustment and provision of educational
and communications materials costing about US$9.09 million; and (iii) rehabilitation and
equipping of rural schools costing about US$29.63 million.

Activities under this component included, inter-alia: (a) a redefinition of the pre-service
teacher training curriculum and adoption of new training and performance standards; (b)
establishment of accreditation system for the Teacher Training Institutions (TTIs); (c)
training for masters trainers at the TTIs; (d) provision of access to updated educational
information and best national and international practices through the financing of
competitive TTI's innovation initiatives; (e) establishment of in-service teacher training
modules focusing on multi-grade methodologies and bilingual education; (f) developing
social marketing activities designed to promote teachers' professional standing among the
educational community and society at large; (g) evaluation of the revised pre-and in-
service teacher training programs including a baseline study; (h) design, validation,
acquisition and provision of educational and communicational materials to support multi-
grade methodologies and bilingual education; (i) carrying out studies on systematization
of knowledge, practices and histories of indigenous peoples for curriculum diversification
as well as on ethnographic issues related to classroom work, children's games and use of
free time; (j) rehabilitation and equipping of approximately 1,900 classrooms and 1,500
complementary facilities in the Project Area; and (k) provision of preventive maintenance
of the classrooms and complementary facilities rehabilitated under the Project.



                                             9

Component C ­ Reform of Teacher Policy and Educational Management (Total Cost
US$20.08 million; US$12.86 million from the Loan). This component, representing
about 21 percent of the total loan, aimed at financing: (i) a Teacher Policy Reform
costing about US$1.6 million; (ii) a Reform of Educational Management costing about
US$6.94 million; (iii) a School Development Fund costing about US$1.76 million; (iv) a
National Assessment System costing about US$4.61 million; (v) Strategic Analysis and
Policy-oriented Research costing about US$2.82 million; and (vi) Project Management
costing about US$1.83 million.

Activities under this component included, inter-alia: (a) the design and implementation in
the Project Areas of a teacher career development system; (b) development and
dissemination of guidelines, operating manuals, software and other instruments to share
information on the teacher career development system; (c) establishment of six Amauta
Centers ; (d) upgrading the teacher management information system as well as
           2

refurbishing of the statistical system to ensure timely collection, processing and analysis
of educational data and validation of school networks; (e) carrying out of national and
local workshops to involve teachers and other members of the educational community of
the policy reform pursued by the Project; (f) establishing, training and monitoring
Institutional School Councils and School Network Councils; (g) designing, implementing
and disseminating school network institutional development plans, including
participatory planning, management, monitoring and evaluation instruments; (h)
establishment and evaluation of rural school networks; (i) developing and disseminating
the concept of educational community involving a variety of stakeholders; (j)
incorporating community initiatives into the operation of Institutional School Councils,
School Networks Councils and the design of school network institutional development
plans; (k) designing, establishing and operating of a school development fund, to finance
the design and implementation of improvement programs developed and managed by
schools and school networks in the Project Areas; (l) developing and administering in
2004 a series of national and census-based learning assessments in language,
mathematics, communication skills, citizenship education and social skills for primary
and secondary education students; (m) carrying out longitudinal studies, school
effectiveness studies, teacher career development studies, decentralization and school
autonomy studies, demand-driven incentives studies, classroom intercultural related
studies and other related institutional research; and (n) the management of the Project by
a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) including the required annual audits and impact
evaluation studies.




2The "Amauta Centers" established by the Project were conceived as a pro-active and demand-driven
teachers professional development centers aimed at: (i) planning, coordinating, monitoring and evaluating
regional in-service teacher training activities; (ii) organizing regional in-service teacher training demand
expressed by schools and school networks and help identify teacher training institutions able to address
such demands; and (iii) providing technical assistance to schools, school networks and MED regional and
district offices.




                                                      10

Table 1 shows the original Project costs and all sources of funding as they appear in
Section C.1 of the PAD.

          Table 1. Original expected costs and sources of financing at appraisal

            Components              Total indicative Bank financing    GOP        % financed by
                                        Costs          (US$M)        counterpart   the Bank
                                       (US$M)                         (US$M)         (2)/(1)
                                          (1)             (2)           (3)
 1. Expanding Education Access
     for Rural children
  1.1 Access to quality initial and      2.71            1.45           1.26          53.5
       pre-school education
  1.2 Secondary distance education       7.83            5.52           2.31          70.5


 2. Improving the quality in
     rural schools
  2.1 Continuous teacher                24.86           15.74           9.12          63.3
       development systems
  2.2 Curricular adjustment and          9.09            3.45           5.64          37.9
       provision of educational
       materials
  2.3 Rehabilitation and equipping      29.63           12.86          16.77          43.4
       of rural schools.


 3. Reform of teacher policy and
     education management
  3.1 Teacher policy studies             1.60            1.25           0.35          78.1
  3.2 Reform of education                6.94            5.26           1.68          75.8
       management
 3.3 School development fund             1.76            0.07           1.69          0.04
 3.4 National assessment system          4.61            2.75           1.86          59.6
 3.5 Strategic analysis and policy-      2.82            2.26           0.56          80.1
     oriented research
 3.6 Project Management                  1.83            1.37           0.46          74.9


 Total project costs                    93.68           51.98           41.7          55.5
 Front-end-fee                           0.52            0.52           0.00          100.0
 Total financing required               94.20           52.50           41.7          55.7


1.6 Revised Components

Components were not formally revised, though the GOP and the Bank had agreed in
early 2007 to proceed with the restructuring of the Project. The restructuring would have
been aimed to simplify the original project design, including the cancellation of five sub-
components, and the extension of 18 months to the loan's closing date. MEF decided,
late in 2007 not to extend the Project. Likely reasons for this decision included poor
project implementation performance, weak managerial and implementation capacity and
unclear political commitment of MED, as well as an overall political mandate to reduce
externally-funded loans. Thus, the original components were not revised during Project



                                                    11

implementation.     Section 2.3 of the ICR describes in more detail the reasons for
restructuring and the restructuring proposal.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

No other significant changes to the original project design were made during project
implementation. Still, there were certain actions that resulted in some changes in Project
implementation strategy. In June 2005 MED redesigned the implementation strategy.
This new strategy called for project activities to be phased in, targeting initially few
specific places before launching their scaling up. This strategy arose in response to the
fact that the various pilots that were expected to take place during the lending phase did
not occur and had to be implemented at the beginning of the Project.

The LA experienced two minor and simple administrative-type amendments: (a) the first,
approved by the Bank on May 26, 2005 and countersigned by the GOP on June 17, 2005,
allowing the Director General of Public Credit of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
of the GOP to sign loan-related withdrawal applications; and (b) the second, approved by
the Bank on August 30, 2005 and countersigned by the GOP on September 13, 2005,
eliminating the FONCODES Special Account that was originally opened for the
rehabilitation of school infrastructure in rural areas and allowing transfers to this
institution to occur through the MED Special Account. The second amendment came
about by the absorption of FONCODES into the Ministry of Women and Social
Development during the implementation cycle, thus legally impeding FONCODES to
execute project-related funds that were part of MED's budget.

During the mid-term review, the Bank and the GOP agreed that project restructuring was
necessary. Although the restructuring did not occur, MED started implementing some of
the changes in mid-2007. The purpose of the restructuring, which would have included
an 18-month extension, would be to: (i) reduce the number of sub-components from 11 to
6; (ii) replace targets for outcome and output indicators with more modest, but achievable
targets; and (iii) focus the geographical scope of project implementation. The proposed
restructuring was to emphasize initial education, multi-grade and bilingual intercultural
education in rural areas and the strengthening of in-service teacher training for the above-
mentioned levels and modalities of education. Alongside, a request to cancel about
US$12 million of the outstanding loan was going to be made with the extension. While
actively participating in the early restructuring discussions, at the end, MEF did not
support the extension based on their concerns with respect to: (i) the weak financial,
managerial and physical performance record shown by MED since the Loan
effectiveness; and (ii) the perception that MED would not be able to implement the
Project in the absence of a solid administrative infrastructure. As a result, the GOP and
the Bank decided not to proceed with the second phase of the APL scheme considered at
appraisal.




                                            12

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

This and the following sections in the ICR were written based on: (i) a thorough review
of the Project files; and (ii) the findings of an ICR field mission carried out in May 2008
which including a visit to the Region of Cusco, which was one of the Regions that
received the greatest amount of support from the Project.

The Project was subjected to a formal Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) carried out on
July 15, 2003, about two months after Board approval. The QEA rated the preparation
cycle as satisfactory. On the other hand, this ICR rates Quality at Entry as moderately
unsatisfactory, based on current best quality at entry practices recommended in Bank
guidelines, which were not in place at the time of Project appraisal. A summary of the
ICR's assessment on these topics follows, while section 5.1 (a) of this ICR provides more
detail on this assessment.

The strategic relevance and approach selected by the Bank team was the correct one
based on the extensive sector work underpinning the Project design. Nonetheless, the
great complexity associated to the holistic nature of the design imposed a series of
challenges for the implementation, coordination and monitoring of activities that should
be taken into account for further Bank operations of this type on behalf of efficiency,
efficacy, impact and sustainability. The selection of an APL as the financial instrument
to gradually achieve GOP's education sector medium-term vision derived from the
national consultation process was also a correct decision by the Bank team.

The Project's lending files attest to client orientation through effective policy dialogue
with the GOP and an extensive consultation process ensuring in the process GOP's
ownership of the Project design. With the constant changes of Governments, the Bank
team and the regional management rightly waited until the new Government provided
clear signs of its full support of the Project, and thus, this explains the long time it took to
prepare this operation. Preparation took approximately four and a half years, from late
1998 until May 2003, when the Project was approved by the Board. During this period,
there was political turmoil, resulting in the re-reelection and subsequent resignation of Mr.
Fujimori (2000), a Transition Government (November 2000-July 2001) that did not want
to commit to medium-term initiatives, and the elected Government of Mr. Toledo
(starting in July 2001). Once the Toledo Government showed interest and commitment,
the preparation process on the Government side required that the Project be appraised
under the National Public Investment System (Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública,
SNIP). Given the rigidities and requirements embodied in the SNIP, this process took
more than a year to conclude.




                                               13

There is evidence of effective partnership by the Bank team through the development of
good working relationships with other donor agencies, in particular the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) and the United Kingdom's Department for International
Development (DFID).

The Bank team ensured compliance with Bank's safeguard policies, in particular with the
environmental and indigenous people guidelines. With respect to the risk assessments,
the PAD did not mention any risk of newly trained and upgraded teacher demanding
higher pay and the impact that this would have on the sustainability of the Project. The
Bank team included lessons learned from the Social Development and Compensation
Fund (FONCODES, Ln.4068-PE, closed) and the Primary Education Project (Ln. 3826-
PE, closed).

The ICR detects four quality-at-entry shortcomings associated to initial assumptions that
were not met. First, although the approaches included in the Project design were well-
tested and technically proven effective elsewhere, the Project design was overly
ambitious covering too many fronts thus hindering implementation performance,
especially in the context of the high centralization and managerial weaknesses of MED.
Second, as a direct consequence of the complexity of the project design (in terms of
components, sub-components and activities), the implementation strategy was not well
defined, thus lacking a critical route that would have allowed the technical team to
visualize priorities and to update them during the implementation cycle. Third, the
original targets set at the time of appraisal resulted too ambitious given the weak capacity
of the MED. Finally, notwithstanding the institutional capacity building assessment done
by the Bank team during the lending cycle, the ICR detects additional shortcomings in
this assessment (further explained in more detail in section 5.1(a) of the ICR) leading to
the conclusion that implementation readiness conditions were not fully present at the time
of Board approval.

Weighting the above strengths and weaknesses in the preparation stage of the lending
cycle, in particular the over ambitious design and the lack of implementation readiness at
the time of Board approval, the ICR ranks the Quality at Entry of this Project as
moderately unsatisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status,
and actions taken, as applicable)

This section provides the key factors and events through the project implementation cycle
that contributed to its achievements and shortcomings. While there were no factors
beyond government control there were three areas where events and decisions at the
government level significantly jeopardized project implementation.

While the National Agreement and the ample consultation process carried out during the
preparation phase raised the need to target social programs, particularly in education and
health, to rural and indigenous populations, frequent changes in high-level decision



                                               14

makers and technical staff meant that priorities with respect to policies and strategies
changed.     The current government's education policies are now focused on teacher
development reforms through evaluation, strengthening the quality-at-entry of
prospective teachers into the educational system and training. Moreover, the focus on the
development of new pedagogical and management models appropriate to the rural
context lost priority. Thus, decision related to rural and bilingual education as well as for
community participation and network support took extremely long times to come to
closure, if any, and the technical staff working on these activities did not feel supported
in their own decision-making process.

This Project was the first one in the social sectors to be subject to the SNIP, thus paying
the price of working in the context of a highly rigid, still untested, assessment norms.
The SNIP required that any changes implemented by the Project be previously approved
by the Dirección General de Programación Multianual (DGPM).                  The proposed
restructuring required an elaborate process, including supply-demand and cost-benefit
analyses. The preparation of the required documents for the restructuring took about one
year (starting after the mid-term review in December 2006). The length of this process
can be attributed to the weak capacities of the MED team to undertake the Project
analyses required by the SNIP, in light of a very small team carrying out a very difficult
task with extremely complex requirements.

Furthermore, organizational changes within MED essentially short circuit its project
implementation capacity. As part of a national policy and law on merging of programs
aimed at achieving greater efficiency in public sector management, a national directive
was issued on August 30, 2007, ordering the merging of the PCU in the Administrative
Office (Oficina General de Administración) of MED. Despite the repeated warnings
made by the Bank supervision team with respect to the need to revise the administrative
processes prior to proceeding with the restructuring that had been agreed in principle with
the Bank3, MED enacted the merging without having in place the appropriate transferring
mechanisms. The PCU legally ceased to exist as such, and the Project came to a
complete stop. With this measure, the GOP failed to comply with articles 3.03 (a) (ii)
and (b) of the LA with respect to maintaining a PCU, staffed by core professional staff in
numbers and with the experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, throughout
the entire implementation cycle.

In addition to the above-mentioned areas at the government level, three other factors at
the project level negatively affected implementation. First, administrative and technical
readiness conditions were not met as agreed, resulting in implementation delays.
Effectiveness conditions, including establishment of the steering committee, approval of
the operations manual, and signing of the MED-FONCODES agreement took longer than
originally expected, thus the very slow start up lasting practically until the end of 2005.


3The Bank team discussed the implications of these changes with MED during the mission of
June 2007 and followed-up with a workshop led by the Financial Management Specialists where
Bank policies on fiduciary responsibilities were discussed.



                                                15

In addition, project design was built on the commitment from MED to allocate adequate
resources to develop and initiate validation of the initial, multi-grade and secondary
education models. This commitment was not met, and piloting actually occurred during
the first two years after effectiveness.

Second, the design assumed that MED had the capacity to effectively implement the
Project, given the satisfactory implementation record shown on the previous Bank-
financed project. Thus, the previous implementation design was used, consisting of a
small PCU that would manage project funds and carry out the planning and coordination
of the Project. Technical staff would be stationed either in the technical directorates
within MED or in the regions. These assumptions were not met, and the Project's design
resulted to be extremely complex given the current managerial, fiduciary and technical
limitations shown by the centralized and weak managerial capacities of MED. To counter
the difficulties in project management, MED established a cumbersome coordination
structure4 which did not operate well and did not resolve the problems. Throughout the
implementation phase, activities were not well articulated (specifically between the
pedagogical-related activities and the institutional-related interventions), and role
confusion was pervasive.5

Third, in the context of the decentralization process at the time, which attributed new
responsibilities to the Regional Governments, the Project design assumed that Regional
Education Directorates would take on a very active role in the implementation process.
Thus, the Project was expected to strengthen technical and management skills in the
Regions, which would have a fluid communication with MED, in order to implement
centrally issued policies. Nonetheless, in practice, such coordination was either poor or
inexistent. The modus operandi of MED was based on direct communication with Local
Educational Management Units and prioritized logistics instead of technical aspects.
This was evidenced during the field visit to Cusco in which several authorities expressed
their uneasiness about how the implementation process had actually been conducted "in
the field" following the path Lima - Canas (local level) with no coordination with Cusco
(regional level).




4 An Executive Committee (Comité Directivo) with seven members was established in March 2004 by
Ministerial Resolution overseeing and Administrative Committee for the Project (Comité de Gerencia) also
established by Ministerial Resolution in October 2004 and including nine members. In addition, under the
context of ensuring more participation of key areas of the MED and other important stakeholders outside
the MED, a third layer of decision making was established ­ the Operational Committee. These three
layers of decision-making significantly delayed project implementation.

5 This was notorious in the interaction of the central authorities of the MED with its more decentralized
administrative units in the field (DREs and UGELs).




                                                    16

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Project's monitoring and evaluation scheme was not ready at the time of Board
Approval. The baseline was provided in September 2006, more than three years after the
approval of the loan and more than two years after the project launching and the
effectiveness of the LA. Some output indicators, very few as compared to the original
list included in the PAD, were first reported in the Implementation Status Results and
Report seventh (June 6, 2006), while also few outcome indicators were first reported in
the ninth ISR (December 12, 2006), one year before closing the loan.

At the time the ISRs were introduced in the Bank as the official format to communicate
supervision findings (much after the date of the Board approval), a directive was issued
to limit the number of outcome indicators to no more than four or five. Therefore, the
task team leader was encouraged to select "tracer" indicators to be reported in the ISRs,
and thus, the number of outcome and output indicators reported in the ISRs is smaller to
that in the PAD. The indicators not reported in the ISRs were continuously included in
the quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs) sent to the Bank. According to the
ISRs, the quality of the information on outcomes and outputs provided by the GOP was
qualified as fair.

Prior to the implementation of the Project, MED did not have a monitoring and
evaluation system in place. Thus, the Project facilitated the opportunity to design,
validate and implement an information platform that was expected to be up-scaled at the
sector-level. Still, the Project's effort in this area raised awareness among MED officers
and staff about the importance of generating high-quality data for making informed
outcome-oriented decisions.

During the field visit to Cusco, the team observed that, while monitoring exercises were
actively promoted by project staff from Lima, local actors indicated that there were
several challenges around this issue. Among them, there are four that deserve attention:
(i) emphasis of monitoring as a "checklist of activities" (inputs and outputs) rather than
focusing on outcomes; (ii) lack of a minimum set of clear, understandable and timely
indicators that could locally orient the monitoring process and the involvement of
relevant actors; (iii) insufficient support from regional and local education staff
associated to a limited capacity to comply with this role given the lack of experience
and/or human resources; and (iv) focus of monitoring exercises as a control mechanism
instead than as an opportunity to locally provide feedback and readjust targets.

The Bank team insisted, both during project preparation and implementation, on
independent evaluations of the pilots being tested in initial and secondary levels. Despite
the insistence of the Bank supervision teams to ensure a results-based project, MED did
not contract rigorous evaluation studies of these pilots to be conducted during the
implementation cycle, beyond the excellent work conducted to establish a comprehensive




                                              17

baseline data6. The Project was key for MED to administer the standardized learning
assessment of 2004 and use the findings to fine-tune project activities. Notwithstanding
the activities financed by the Project to strengthen the national learning assessment
system, a decision was taken by MED not to conduct, during 2007, a new assessment to
update the information collected in 20047. The reason for this decision was that MED
gave priority to the implementation of the second census-based student learning
assessment for second graders and bilingual fourth graders administered in December
20078. The results of a Project impact or outcome evaluation study and/or new learning
assessment information to compare with the 2004 findings were not available at the time
of preparation of this ICR. Therefore, it has not been possible to establish that the few
outcome gains indicated in the data sheet of the ICR are a direct result of the
interventions of the PEAR (more on this in Section 3.2 of the ICR).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The implementation readiness condition with respect to the procurement of goods,
services and civil works to be financed under the loan were not present at the time of
Board Approval. The procurement capacity assessment undertaken during the lending
cycle identified some procurement-related issues that were not appropriately addressed
by the GOP prior to effectiveness. No approved final Project's Operational Manual was
available at this time, although a draft had been discussed with the Bank. There was a
preliminary draft of a first-year procurement plan that was discussed during appraisal but
was not included in the Board package. Finally, the fact that the PCU lacked appropriate
capacity to carry out these activities following Bank guidelines and procedures at the
time of loan effectiveness, contributed to implementation delays.

This Project was subjected to three ex-post Procurement Reviews that were carried out in
June 2005, April 2006 and November 2006. Some of the findings of these reviews were:
(i) lack of formal status and inability to make decisions caused the PCU, in practice, to



6 This baseline study pioneers work done in the social sectors in Peru, in particular in the education sector.
It includes very rich and useful information concerning, inter-alia: (i) net enrollment rates for different age
groups; (ii) internal efficiency data with respect to completion rates, dropout rates, repetition rates in
primary and secondary levels; (iii) enrollment data by educational levels and modalities; (iv) number of
teachers and school principals by educational level and modality; (v) learning assessment outcomes; and
(vi) other information related to school community participation. The above information was collected for
a comparable control group as well as for the treatment group. Once the preliminary findings of the 2008
learning assessment are made available, comparisons between schools benefited by the Project with respect
to schools in the control group could be made.

 7 The assessment has been postponed for 2008. Funds have been already allocated under the national
budget.

8 Most likely, the preliminary findings of these assessments would be made available in the second
semester of 2008, after this ICR has been submitted to the Board.




                                                    18

rely heavily on approvals and procurement-related decision made at different levels of the
MED (including the General Administrative Office, the Legal Department and the
Secretariat General) generating, in turn, lengthy and heavy acquisition and selection
processes (on average, twice as long as the time set for in the Operational Manual); (ii)
the PCU lacked appropriate procurement-related capacity to follow through the Bank's
guidelines and procedures effectively and in a timely manner, a situation that worsened
with the continuous turnover of key personnel at both, the PCU and the MED; (iii)
duplication due to unnecessary reviews and approvals caused by confused roles,
cumbersome coordination mechanisms and accountability channels making the existing
administrative arrangements in place not efficient nor conducive to expeditious and
timely decisions; and (iv) inappropriate filing system. These additional processes not
only did not add value for ensuring more effective controls, as intended, but to a large
extent, explain the reasons for major delays and inefficiencies present in the low
implementation progress rate achieved in the first two years after loan effectiveness.

The review of the FMRs submitted by GOP from the third quarter of 2004 to the third
quarter of 2007 showed that: (i) overall, the FMRs prepared and furnished to the Bank
complied with Section 4.02(a) to the LA but were, often incomplete and, by and large,
submitted to the Bank with delay outside the 45 day period after the end of each
subsequent quarter; (ii) weak planning, budgeting and accounting processes led to a
debilitated financial management oversight of Project execution by the PCU; (iii)
deviations with respect to expected physical and financial targets were not sufficiently
explained; and (iv) the PCU did not follow-up appropriately the corrective measures
agreed upon with the Bank.

Audit reports were submitted to the Bank on time. Even though the auditors found that
the MED complied with the terms of the agreement and the applicable laws and
regulations, some exception to the compliances of the clauses were identified, including:
(i) the Operations Manual was not updated on a timely basis, (ii) the Project suffered
continuous delays in submittal of the Annual Operational Plan (POA) for the Bank's
approval, (iii) project progress reports and FMRs were also sent to the Bank after the
agreed deadlines, (iv) transfers for an amount of S/.6,136,570 made to FONCODES in
2005 were not registered as an advance account (cuenta pendiente de rendición) in the
Balance Sheet, requiring further monitoring by the Bank's FM team.

In addition, the Auditor's Management Letter identified some deficiencies with respect to
the internal control process: (i) procurement process documents were not adequately
supported and did not keep a sequence; (ii) Annual Procurement Plans experienced
several modifications without appropriate approval; (iii) the Operations Manual was
never   updated to reflect changes in the PCU; (iv) some consultants services were
incorrectly registered under Category 5-Operational Costs and some training events were
registered under Category 3-Consultant Services; and (v) cash advances that were not
utilized by consultants were only reimbursed to the Project between 6 and 88 days after
contracts were completed.




                                           19

Given the above, in addition to supervision mission findings, the procurement and
financial management were rated unsatisfactory (U) in the last ISR (13).

The indigenous peoples plan was appropriately implemented, albeit at a slower pace as
anticipated and was also subject to weak support from the decision-making levels in the
MED.     Although an evaluation was not made, a spot check showed that FONCODES'
environmental guidelines were used and, overall, there were no significant environmental
impacts.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Despite the decision taken by the GOP and the Bank not to proceed with the second
phase of the proposed APL, the Borrower is technically, institutionally and financially
sustaining some of the activities financed by the Project, although at a low pace. First,
the validated pedagogical innovations in initial, multi-grade education, bilingual and
intercultural education are being gradually scaled up by the MED, including the
corresponding teacher training and the acquisition of learning materials. Second, the
strengthened national assessment system will undertake a learning assessment
measurement and produce the preliminary findings of the Student Census Learning
Assessment for second-graders and bilingual fourth graders in the second semester of
2008. Third, the teacher policy reform is progressing, albeit at a slower pace than
expected.     The Peruvian Congress just approved the Laws corresponding to the
establishment of the Teaching Professional Development Career (Carrera Magisterial)
and the National Educational Assessment and Certification System (Sistema Nacional de
Acreditación y Certificación Educativa, SINEACE).


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

At the lending stage. The Project design was consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Peru (Report 24205-PE), discussed by the Board on August 19, 2002,
covering the period until December 2006. The Project was aligned with the overall CAS
objective of supporting the GOP's strategy for poverty reduction focusing on
competitiveness and employment generation, access to basic social services (health,
education and culture) and creating a public administration that served the people. That
CAS aimed at promoting the recovery of growth by investing in education, which was
thought to be the key to raising productivity, especially for the poor, whose only asset
was their human capital.




                                            20

The Project was expected to contribute to macroeconomic stability by improving the
efficiency of social spending, in this case, through investments in the education sector in
rural and indigenous areas of greatest poverty, helping, as a consequence, to mitigate the
negative impact of the economic slowdown on the poor. The long-term ten-year program,
for which the Project constituted the first four-year phase, was thought to explicitly: (a)
support the development of more efficient institutions in the education sector by
strengthening accountability and streamlining regional administration; and (b) strengthen
stakeholder voice in education by decentralizing managerial decision-making processes
to the school-level councils involving parents and other key community members.

Current GOP's policy and Bank strategy. The current Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for the Republic of Peru (Report 37913-PE) dated December 19, 2006 discussed
the direction of future Bank support to help the new administration of President Alan
Garcia achieve its goals of poverty reduction, decreased inequality and more effective
and responsive governance. The CPS describes the proposed support corresponding to
the Bank's fiscal years 2007-11 grouped into a combination of activities, referred to as
clusters that together aim to contribute to the achievement of the envisaged outcomes.
The CPS includes six clusters, two of them directly related to the PDOs of the Project: (i)
promoting and developing a new social contract in education, health and nutrition; and
(ii) modernizing state institutions.

Under the first cluster mentioned-above, Bank support would be geared to continue
financing interventions aimed at improving the quality of education as a way to raise the
basic standards in the educational levels, especially among the poorest segments of the
population. It would also support the key policy changes needed to develop this results
orientation in the social sectors (education included) and to support the decentralization
of education and health programs to the municipalities. Under the second cluster, the
focus would include, inter-alia, interventions to strengthen public sector management and
assist in the process of decentralization, including the one envisaged for the MED.

As per the above, the Project's PDO currently continues to be highly relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 2)

This section summarizes progress in terms of the PDO outcomes and output indicators.
Annex 2 provides further details on the achievements of the Project's outputs by
component while Section 3.3. and Annex 3 present the efficiency and economic analysis.

Assessment of PDO Outcome Achievements. Achievement of the PDOs are rated
moderately unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

The PAD included indicators for all three levels of schooling, initial, primary and
secondary. There were three efficiency indicators for primary (see table below) which
aimed at monitoring desertion as well as overage children, two key problems found in



                                              21

   rural areas. In addition, there was a specific indicator aimed at bilingual schools. This
   indicator was expected to be modified once the data on indigenous bi-lingual population
   was measured. Unfortunately, the 2005 census did not include the question on language
   spoken at home and the data for the 2007 census is still not available. The situation for
   secondary education is similar to that for primary, that is, there are two indicators aiming
   at measuring overall enrollment and overage children.9.

   All PDO indicators (see Table 2), where available, showed an improvement, often
   meeting the target or surpassing it. This is the case for: (i) percentage of 11 year-old
   children enrolled in sixth grade or higher in rural areas which increased by 0.6 percentage
   points; (ii) rural 11 year-old children who do not go to school which decreased by 0.7
   percentage points, (iii) rural pre-school coverage (3-5 years) which increased by 5.5
   percentage points; and (iv) secondary school coverage at grade 1 for 12 or less year-old
   youngsters in rural areas which increased by 3.3 percentage points. While it is possible
   that the Project did contribute to this improvement in these indicators, but it is impossible
   to determine attribution, particularly given that output indicators did not reach the
   intended targets (see section below).

                                                         Table 2
                                        Achievement of PDO Indicators10

Indicator*                                                          Baseline        Target        Actual
Percentage of 11 year-old children enrolled in sixth grade or       37.08% (rural)  37.66%        41.70% (rural)
higher in rural areas increases by 0.6 percentage points            44.27% (project               50.21%
                                                                    area)                         (project area)
Percentage of 11 year-old children enrolled in grades 5 and lower   67.1%           67.1% (or     NA
will not increase                                                                   less)
Rural 11 year-old children who do not go to school decreases by     7.41%           6.71%         3.87%
0.7 percentage points
375,000 children received bilingual materials and their teachers    0               375,000       239,520
trained
Rural pre-school coverage (0-2 years) increases                     1%              4.7%          NA
Rural pre-school coverage (3-5 years) increases by 5.5 percentage   48.09%          53.59%        54.79%
points
Secondary school gross enrollment ratio in rural areas increases by 71,39%          79.39%        77.74%
8 percentage points




   9 The preliminary findings of the new learning assessment measurement to be administered during 2008
   will allow some comparisons with the baseline data for the treated as well as for the control groups.

   10 Note that baseline indicators are different from those in the PAD. The reason for this is that the baseline
   study recommended the use of different sources of data. The original baseline numbers were calculated
   using the national student census as denominator and population projections from INEI, based on the 1993
   census. These projections, as compared to the data from the 2005 census, showed to be inaccurate. Thus,
   baseline data used as denominator the data from the latter census. Baseline data are for 2004, actual data
   for 2007, unless otherwise indicated.




                                                             22

Indicator*                                                      Baseline        Target      Actual
Secondary school coverage at grade 1 for 12 or less year-old    37.08% (rural)  40.3%       41.70% (rural)
youngsters in rural areas increases by 3.3 percentage points    44.27% (PEAR                50.21%    (PEAR
                                                                districts)                  districts)
Learning outcomes of children in target Project Areas11 showed  2.3% (language) increases   NA
improvement on national assessment at the primary level         1.3% (math)


  None of the triggers to graduate to the second phase (included in section 1.2 of the ICR)
  were complied by the GOP.

  Assessment of the intermediate output indicators.

  Table 3 below shows the output indicators for the various interventions under the project.
  As per the discussion that follows, outputs were only partially attained, and, thus,
  achievement of expected results of the Project's components is rated as moderately
  unsatisfactory.

  The data shows that MED made some advances in project implementation and that,
  assuming an adequate management structure, outputs and results could have been
  achieved if the Loan's closing date and project implementation would have been
  extended for some of the components. In particular, the bilingual education program
  showed significant progress, both in teacher training (71 percent of the initial target) as
  well as materials (95 percent). Also, the multigrade model validation was completed, and
  was ready to be brought to scale (39 percent of the target teachers were already trained).

  Although the national learning assessment shows as having achieved only one of two
  sample based tests in the Project area, the learning assessment unit carried out, instead, a
  census based reading-comprehension test in December 2006 and a second one in
  December 2007 which included, in addition to reading-comprehension, a math test for
  second graders.            The Bank agreed with MED that these census-based tests could
  potentially have a much greater impact in school accountability and improvement.

  On the other hand, implementation of other activities fell significantly short of the
  original targets. In particular, initial and secondary education validation of pedagogical
  models, which were supposed to occur during the preparation phase, took a significant
  amount of time to implement and, thus, were never brought up to scale. As a result of the
  difficulties in FONCODES, which was responsible for rehabilitation of infrastructure,
  only 27 percent of the target was achieved. In the case of the third component, Reform of
  Teacher Policy and Education Management, some progress was made in training CONEI




  11 According to Article I, Section 1.01(r) of the LA, "Project Areas" meant that originally the project
  comprised the Regions of Amazonas, Ancash, Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Cusco, Huancavelica, Loreto, Piura,
  Puno, San Martin and Ucayali, and any other Department that may be acceptable to the Bank in addition to,
  or in substitution of, the above Regions .




                                                            23

members, but this progress was not sufficient to ensure the development of the school
development plans (PEI), the main instrument for school-level improvement.

                               Table 3. Other output indicators

      Sub-          Output             Unit      PAD target    Status as of Achievement
  Component                                                    December        (%)
                                                                  2007
                0-2 year-olds    Children         30,000         1,877           6
                enrolled
                3-5 year-olds    Children         38,000         4,225          11
Initial         enrolled
                Learning
                materials        Texts            200,000       109,500         55
                distributed
Secondary       Enrollment       Students          5,000          879           18
                Learning
                materials        Distributed      50,000         28,018         35
                distributed      materials
                In-service
                teacher training
                institutions     Institutions        21            0             0
Continuous in-  restructured
service teacher using new
training        curricula
                Teachers
                trained at these Teachers          1,200           0             0
                institutions
                Teachers
                trained for      Teachers          1,000          362           36
                initial
                education (0-2)
                Teachers
                trained for pre- Teachers          1,000          374           37
                school
                education (3-5)
                Teachers
                trained in       Teachers          3,800         1,513          40
                multi-grade
                methodology
                Teachers
                trained for      Teachers         15,000         13,952         93
                bilingual
                education
                Centros
                Amauta           Centers             6             3            50
                functioning
Curriculum      Bilingual
and materials   learning         Sets of          1,800,00     1,712,140        95
                materials        materials
                distributed




                                              24

      Sub-          Output             Unit       PAD target    Status as of  Achievement
 Component                                                       December         (%)
                                                                   2007
Curriculum      Validated
and materials   models for       Validated
                multi-grade      model                1              1            100
                and bilingual
                education
Infrastructure  Classrooms
                rehabilitated or Classrooms         1,900           293            15
                substituted
Teacher reform  Teachers under
                the new          Teachers           3,000          1,160           39
                incentive
                system
School          PEIs being
improvement     financed under   PEIs being          100             0             0
fund            this fund        implemented
                Support          Networks            290            96             33
Institutional   networks
Strengthening   CONEIs           CONEIs             3,000          1,231           41
                established
                CONEI            Persons           10,000          7,647           76
                members
                trained
National        Learning         Administration
learning        assessment       of a learning
assessment      measurement      assessment test
                in Project areas on a sample          1              1            100
                                 basis in the
                                 Project area


3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Data quality and limited implementation precluded a substantial economic analysis to be
carried out. The Project may have had some impact on greater efficiency in children
graduating from primary schools in rural areas. Still, the data was not sufficiently
accurate to draw solid conclusions with respect to Project efficiency.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Given the partial achievement of outcome and output indicators with respect to the
targets originally established for the project, the relevance of the PDOs, and the Project
efficiency, overall outcome is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.




                                                25

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty impacts are likely not significant given that the Project's overall outcome is rated
as moderately unsatisfactory and with high risk to sustainability (see below) due to the
under achievement of results. Still, part of the expected target group, particularly the
indigenous-bilingual population did benefit from the Project.        Given that the final
evaluation has not been delivered, it is impossible to state whether the partial
achievement of results could have a lasting impact on poverty, gender and overall social
development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

The Project had a low impact in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the MED.
Some processes were improved as a result of the Project, particularly in the pedagogical
area. For example, MED established internal review procedures requiring the units
responsible for bilingual education teacher training and basic education (the latter being
the regulatory entity responsible for curriculum development and implementation) to
coordinate activities so that they would be aligned with the curriculum and they would be
articulated in the field. The Project also contributed to the improvement of the statistical
system, particularly in the area of quality control and in the development of the GIS
which has been critical for other interventions in MED, including the census-based
student evaluations. Finally, the Project supported the student assessment system, thus
ensuring that results become an integral part of the decision making process in MED.

On the other hand, MED's relationship with regional management units (DRE and
UGEL) was haphazard and depended mostly on the good will of the parties involved.
The project did not achieve its original objective of strengthening deconcentrated offices
to provide support to the schools or the autonomy of schools.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not applicable.




                                            26

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial Risk

There is a substantial risk to development outcomes. As per the above assessment of
development outcomes above, it is not clear that the few achievements in outcomes will
all be sustained. While bilingual education interventions are expected to continue, thanks
mainly to indigenous stakeholder demands, financing may not be sufficient to ensure
coverage of all targeted beneficiaries. Given the weakness shown by the regional offices
(DRE and UGEL), interventions at the local level are not expected to be sustained in time
and the validated models face significant risk of not being brought to scale. On the other
hand, progress made under the student performance and statistical system units continue
to be fully supported and funded and sustainability is highly likely. In addition, the initial
education model is expected to be implemented under an upcoming IDB-financed project.

The Bank is currently working with the Education sector, but under a different focus and
thus, specific Project outcomes are not being directly supported.        The current CPS
includes continued involvement with the Education sector through a DPL program and
investment loans (both for basic and tertiary education). The REACT DPL program is
under way; the first loan has been signed and the second is under preparation. The DPL
program includes support to the education sector in areas relevant to actions under the
Project, but with a focus on the overall accountability of the primary education system.
This support does not particularly focus on rural areas and the specific intervention
models needed for that context. The Bank recently launched the preparation of the
tertiary education loan, while the GOP has not yet requested the Bank to start preparing
the basic education project.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Preparation took about four years between identification and Board presentation. The
political instability in the country caused by Fujimori's re-reelection in July 2000 and
resignation in September 2000, followed by a transitional government which had as its
mandate ensuring open and transparent elections, and the election of Alejandro Toledo,
who took office in July 2001, made it necessary for the Bank to wait about 2.5 years
between the identification (August 1999) and the Project Concept Note (PCN)
management review meeting (11-28-01), when GOP commitment could be confirmed.



                                            27

As recorded by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), this wait resulted in a prudent and
correct decision by the Bank to ensure GOP's ownership of the project design. The Bank
was ready to submit the Project to the Board in June 2002, but MED was not able to
proceed as it had to meet the requirements imposed by the National Public Investment
System (the country's appraisal system). Thus, approval by the Board occurred on May
29, 2003. As a result, preparation costs amounted to about US$1,117,516 (US$669,241
from three PHRD grants and the rest from the Bank's operational budget).

The lending cycle included a total of seven missions from identification to appraisal in
April 2002. An eighth mission was carried out between appraisal and negotiations, in
early April 2003, negotiations finally took place on April 21-22, 2003.

The Bank provided effective project preparation support to the GOP through a highly
qualified and experienced core Bank team. When specific technical issues required
attention, the Bank team drew on senior expertise from across the Bank and from outside
the Bank. There was only one Country Office-based task team leader assigned to this
operation from the very beginning (identification) to Board approval thus providing a
welcomed continuity in the lending cycle. As shown in Annex 4 of the ICR, a significant
number of professionals were involved in the preparation cycle.

Despite all this, as already mentioned in Section 2.1, the ICR rated the quality at entry of
this Project as moderately unsatisfactory. What follows is a more detailed explanation
on the reasons of this rating, highlighting the strengths as well as the shortfalls emerging
from the assessment carried out on the Project's lending cycle file along the dimensions
appearing in bold.

Strategic relevance and approach. The Project was underpinned by very good sector
work highlighting the relevant issues in need to be urgently addressed in the education
sector. An APL was agreed as the financial instrument for this operations based on the
following rationale: (i) MED had a clear medium-term vision derived from the national
consultation process of where it wanted the education sector to be ten years hence and
was highly committed to achieve it; (ii) it allow MED to start "small" and gradually
proceed to a scaling-up process based on prior assessment of ongoing experiences
financed in the early stages; and (iii) it required a functional monitoring of agreed
outcomes and outputs as well a accomplishments of agreed triggers as a disciplined way
of proceeding with subsequent phases of the long-term operation. Thus, the first phase of
the APL aimed at setting the right policies in pre and in-service teacher training and
management of the education sector in a more decentralized fashion, allowing for
learning from the development and piloting of project activities in early childhood
development, increased access in pre-school education in rural areas, multi-grade
teaching in rural areas, bilingual and intercultural education and untested secondary
distance education.     The second phase of the proposed APL aimed at fine-tuning
activities and scale-up those that proved to be cost-effective. The third and final phase,
aimed at consolidating the Program, after careful assessment of the experiences financed
during the previous two phases.




                                             28

Level of GOP's ownership and client orientation. The country's education and
governance priorities at the time of the lending cycle were appropriately integrated in the
Project design. With the changes of Governments between November 2000 and July
2001, the Bank team and the regional management rightly waited until the new
Government provided clear signs of its full support of the Project. The preparation
involved extensive consultations within the country. The Project design was largely
underpinned on the results of the 2001 national consultation on education emerging from
the implementation by the GOP of the social pact framed under the National Agreement.
A 24 member National Commission was created to lead the process and over 300,000
individuals throughout the country expressed their opinions, demands and expectations
on the following six major topics, which were included in the Project: tomorrow's skills,
school learning, extra-school learning, school management, education priorities and
financing and education information and evaluation. The findings and recommendations
of this massive consultation effort published as Las Voces del País (the Voices of the
Country) and included a Proposal for a National Agreement on Education. The team
demonstrated a rich understanding of the political and social context as well as of the
issues and risks faced at the national level, but more particularly, in the rural and
indigenous regions of the country.

Partnerships.        The team developed good working relationships with other donor
agencies, in particular with the: (i) IDB, which co-financed a large chunk of the required
civil works as well as the PCU12; (ii) DfID, which piloted activities to strengthen capacity
for school management and provided the design and materials for the project, and (iii)
GTZ, which participated the discussion on teacher development and provided technical
assistance in the development of the Centros Amauta.. The above attest to a history of
extensive and successful consultation among the various external-funding agencies and is
a good example of the harmonization efforts sought later on by the 2004 Paris
Declaration13.

Outcome and output indicators. The stated developmental objectives were appropriate.
However, due to the complexity of the Project's design involving three components and
11 sub-components, there were too many outcome and output indicators included in
Annex 1 of the PAD making it difficult to monitor.                       As it turned out during the
implementation cycle, some of these indicators were not monitored in a timely manner.
(see section 2.3 of the ICR concerning Monitoring and Evaluation).




12 This ICR does not assess the physical and financial performance of the IDB parallel loan for this Project,
although it provides in some sections of the report some related information.

13 The 2005 Paris High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness approved a set of principles to improve the
effectiveness of donor assistance. Agreement was reached by 60 partner countries, 30 donor countries, and
30 development agencies, including the World Bank to adhere, when possible to: (i) country ownership; (ii)
harmonization of fiduciary practices; (iii) alignment with country-led development priorities; (iv) managing
for development results; and (v) mutual accountability for the use of aid.


                                                     29

Technical, financial and economic aspects. While recognizing that the approaches
included in the Project's design were well-tested elsewhere and proven effective, the
Project design was overly ambitious covering too many fronts ­ early and preschool
education, primary education and secondary education in rural areas, bilingual and
intercultural education, pre and in-service teacher reform, learning assessment,
community participation and management efficiency. As became evident during the
implementation cycle, it took a considerable amount of time to get implementation going
and the implementation performance as recorded by the ISRs was at the end rated
unsatisfactory.      This observation is even more striking in a context of the high
centralization as well as institutional and implementation capacity weaknesses of MED.

Implementation arrangements. Despite the institutional capacity building assessment
done by the Bank team during the lending cycle, the following shortcomings were
identified, leading to the conclusion that implementation readiness conditions were not
fully present at the time of Board approval and thus partially delayed by about one year
project implementation after effectiveness and the first GOP and Bank disbursements to
the Special Account:

(a) The inclusion of effectiveness conditions resulted in delayed project launching.
The LA included three conditions: (i) the project Steering Committee (Comité Directivo)
with membership structure and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) a subsidiary
agreement between FONCODES and MED, addressing pending matters with respect to
the financial coordination between these two institutions including the mechanisms to
consolidate the project accounts, financial reports, the Financial Management Reports,
audit and other control functions; and (iii) the project Operational Manual14, although a
preliminary draft existed at the time of Board approval. Current good practices in the
Bank point to the fact that no conditions of effectiveness are desirable beyond the legal
opinion of the country. Furthermore, nowadays, to complete an appraisal the Bank
recommends that an Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, is agreed with the
Borrower;

(b) The pedagogical models corresponding to the different pilots in initial education
and secondary education were not ready. The assumption made during the Project's
design was that during the lending cycle the MED was going to pilot and validate these
pedagogical initiatives, and then, at appraisal, discuss with the Bank the findings of their
validation assessment and agree with the Bank on specific activities to fine tune and scale




14 The Project's Operation Manual was supposed to include, inter-alia: (i) the Project's institutional setup,
organizations and functions of the PCU; (ii) disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting procedures;
(iii) procurement responsibilities, procedures and internal controls; (iv) monitoring and evaluation plans for
the project; and (v) procedures for identification, preparation, approval, execution and supervision of
infrastructure sub-projects to be financed under the loan, environmental assessment procedures and a list of
non-eligible civil was not available works.




                                                     30

up these innovations during the implementation phase. MED did not carry out the agreed
pilots so that, effectively, they became part of implementation.

(c) Project management and implementation conditions were not set. (i) despite
having carried out a procurement capacity assessment, the Board package also lacked a
first-year procurement plan, which current procedures in the Bank require to completing
the appraisal phase; (ii) no baseline data for the proposed outcome and output indicators
was available and the corresponding monitoring and evaluation system was not in place.
The Bank team argued that the available information to construct a baseline at the time of
Board approval was not reliable, thus a specific tailored-made study was contracted
producing the excellent baseline in 2006.         Having an agreed baseline is nowadays
considered as a recommended practice by Bank management to complete the appraisal
phase; and (iii) according to the Project's files, the PCU manager was not appointed prior
to the Board approval.

Compliance with Bank's safeguard policies.             A set of appropriate environmental
guidelines was prepared for the design, evaluation and supervision of the project's civil
works. In addition an appropriate Indigenous Communities Strategy was prepared and
integrated into the different Projects components.

Risk assessments. The Project design did not take into account the risk that the
Government would have a significant change in policy towards teacher policy in terms of
implementing the teacher career reform. Unfortunately, soon after board approval, a
massive teacher strike resulted in the GOP deciding to postpone the approval of the
teacher reforms.       As a result, rural teacher incentives were not implemented
institutionally (they remained as a pilot), and retention of these teachers became a
sustainability risk.

Lessons learned. The Bank team included lessons learned from the FONCODES Project
(Loan 4068-PE, closed) and the Primary Education Project (Loan 3826-PE, also closed)
as part of this Project's design.

In sum, although the Project was prepared according to Bank standards of that time, the
Bank should have aimed at a much simpler project design and ultimately evaluated
whether to go with the Project, given that there were critical unresolved issues that were
not met during project preparation. Furthermore, weighting the relevant achievements
and shortfalls of the Bank team at the lending stage in accordance with today's good
standard practices in the Bank, in particular the over-ambitious design and the lack of
implementation readiness conditions described above, ICR rates the Bank performance at
the lending stage as moderately unsatisfactory.




                                              31

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

As previously mentioned, the Project had only one Task Team Leader (TTL) from
identification to the closing of the Loan, thus providing continuity to the entire lending
and implementation. The fact that the TTL was stationed in Lima, Peru also provided an
effective and timely supervision of this Project, as well as just-in-time support to the
client. After the launching of the Project in January 2004, PEAR was subjected to ten
field supervision missions, including a Mid-term Review conducted at the end of
November 2006, three ex-post Procurement Review missions (June 2005, May 2006 and
November 2006) as well as quarterly Financial Management Reports (from July 2004 up
to September 2007). In addition, there were 13 ISRs archived in the Project Portal.
There was an average of between two to three supervision missions per year during the
four-year implementation cycle after the Project launching. The fact that there are 13
ISRs seems to indicate that these were updated, on average, at least three times per year.

Supervision missions included an adequate skill-mix to carry out their envisaged terms of
reference. By and large, the reporting in the ISRs was realistic. The only exception is
with the Moderately Satisfactory (MS) ratings for the PDO in the ISRs number 10, 11
and 12 corresponding to 2007, a rating that was not consistent with the story reflected in
the corresponding Aide-Memoires. Furthermore, the slim quantitative data presented in
these ISRs suggests that the Project was far away from reaching the proposed PDOs.

The findings of each supervision mission were conveyed to Bank management clearly
and in a straightforward fashion, including the accomplishments as well as the
implementation shortcomings and potential risks assessed by the Bank team. The Bank
supervision teams followed-up on commitments made by the GOP on previous missions
and the findings reported accordingly in the ISRs. The Bank was supportive to ensure a
prompt and effective implementation process, facilitating an induction workshop for key
stakeholders at the MED on August 30, 2003, just after Board approval, and a launching
workshop in January 2004, about four months before Loan effectiveness.

The team supervision missions consistently voiced their concern regarding MED's
refusal to follow up on GOP's policy on decentralization with respect to the publicly-
financed social services, including education. Decisions were taken at the higher echelon
of MED without consultation with the Regional and/or Local Management Unit (DRE
and UGEL).

There were continuous discussions during the various Bank supervision missions to have
a focus on results, including the carrying out of an impact evaluation study and other
related assessment and monitoring studies by MED. Still, the only comprehensive
evaluation was the baseline study carried out in 2006. One of the reasons for the absence
of evaluations was the fact that model validations took much longer than expected.




                                            32

The Bank team worked closely with counterparts towards the restructuring and extension
of the Project. During more than one year, the Bank met periodically with MED teams,
and subsequently with MEF to discuss both the content and the process for restructuring.
An agreement was reached with MED, whereby the Project would have been simplified
significantly. Unfortunately the negotiations with MEF were not successful and the
Project closed as per the specified date in the LA.

Despite the effort to provide technical assistance as well as to carry out overall
supervision responsibilities for the Project, it is evident that the Bank did not address
sufficiently the implementation challenges faced by the Government. In particular, given
the complex design, the Bank should have negotiated more emphatically with the
Government on the restructuring process, precluding the implementation of the proposed
changes made by MED until the Project was fully restructured, as recommended during
the mid-term evaluation.

Weighting the above, Bank supervision performance is considered as moderately
unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Based on the above lending and supervision observations and ratings, the ICR rates the
overall Bank performance as moderately unsatisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Rating at the lending stage: Moderately Unsatisfactory

As mentioned above, preparation took about four years and preparation costs were also
high (as compared to average preparation costs in the education sector in LAC). Project
preparation activities were mainly financed by three Japan Policy and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) grants (TF025935 which was Bank executed, TF025902 and
TF026867, which were both GOP executed). The first two PHRD grants were approved
on February 16, 1999, started to be utilized about a year later (February 9, 2002) and
closed two and half years later (June 16, 2002). The third PHRD grant was approved on
June 29, 2001, started to be utilized 6 months later and closed on April 17, 2003. The
documented expenditures in consultants (mostly for rural education, early childhood
education, secondary distance education, use of new educational technologies,
infrastructure, monitoring and evaluation) and project-related studies against these three
grants amounted to about US$669,241.



                                             33

The time and cost overruns during the lending cycle were a reflection of the volatile
political situation in Peru, which resulted in two longish interruptions in project
preparation. The political uncertainty caused by the resignation of President Fujimori in
September 2000, the subsequent appointment of an interim government by the Peruvian
Congress and the election of President Toledo that followed in July 2001 considerably
slowed down the pace of the lending process, in particular the formal review of the PCN
by Bank Management that took place 27 months after the identification mission. The
second interruption occurred between appraisal and negotiations (April 2002 and April
2003).     This delay was caused by recent approval of the SNIP, which introduced
extensive project appraisal requirements, demanding about 12 months for MED to
achieve. The SNIP does not allow the GOP to negotiate a loan before the project is
declared viable.

These political events also brought many changes in the MED, in particular in the offices
of the Minister and of the Vice-Minister for Pedagogical Management and all of its
Directors (for Initial, Primary and Secondary in rural areas and Bilingual and
Intercultural Education), which constituted the key technical counterparts during the
lending cycle. Just in the lending cycle (from identification in August 1999 to Board
approval in May 2003), the Bank team had to deal with six different Ministers of
Education, whose average tenure, except the first one15, was about one year16. The
arrival of new teams at the MED's and the frequent turnover of key high-level
management had a significant negative impact on the early stages of project preparation
as each new team needed to assimilate the project's proposed ethos and the Bank's
procedures in implementing its loans. Ironically, when some of these new teams were
ready to be utilized at their full capacity to complete the project preparation, new
resignations took place in a framework of constant turnover of key political and technical
personnel at the MED.

Although during the early stages of project preparation the Bank team interacted with a
highly qualified technical counterpart that was involved in the implementation of the
previous Bank-financed project in education (Primary Education Quality, Loan 3826 ­



15 The lending cycle started under the Ministerial tenure of Domingo Palermo Cabrejos (1996 ­ 1999),
which was also heading the MED during the satisfactory implementation of the previous Bank-financed
project in education (Primary Education Project; Ln. 3826-PE). It was under the leadership of this Minister
that the highly qualified technical counterpart cadre in the MED initiated the Project design through an
effective policy dialogue with the Bank team. This technical group was also familiar with the Bank's
financial and procurement procedures. Unfortunately, with the arrival of new Ministers (see next footnote),
this technical group was gradually dismantled and replaced with staff, that not only resisted to buy into the
proposed project design, but they were also not familiar with Bank procedures.

16 After the departure of Minister Palermo, the MED was headed by the following 5 Ministers during the
entire lending cycle: (a) Felipe Ignacio García Escudero (November 1999- July 2000); (b) Federico Salas
Guevara (July 2000- November 2000); (c) Marcial Rubio Correa (November 2000- July 2001); (d) Nicolás
Lynch Gamero (July 2001-June 2002); and (e) Gerardo Ayzanoa del Carpio (June 2002-May 2003).




                                                    34

PE), this team was gradually replaced during the volatile political years of 2000 and 2001
with other MED staff not necessarily familiar with Bank operations and not at the same
skill competency than the previous one. For example, the Project files attest to the lack
of capacity within the MED to effectively link the pedagogical dimension with the
technical aspects of the secondary distance education. MED teams responsible for the
various components tended to work in isolation, precluding the needed articulation
among project components. The Project's files also reflect a concern raised by the Bank
team that detected the lack of sufficient skilled personnel at the MED to undertake project
implementation activities.

Rating at the implementation stage: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The same changing phenomena observed in MED during the lending cycle was mirrored
during the implementation phase. Since Board approval until the closing of the Loan,
four Ministers headed the MED, with an average tenure of about 15 months17. Each
change meant changes along the hierarchical chain of command thus considerably
slowing down project implementation. Appointments of higher-level technical staff
associated to the Project's implementation were mostly based on political, rather than
skill and experience criteria. There was also a radical change of policy of the current
administration with respect to its support to the decentralization effort and the bilingual
and intercultural education, limiting political support to the Project during the last year of
the implementation cycle. In addition, the requirements for inclusion of the Project in the
national budget were changed in 2003, having an impact on the initial disbursements and
counterpart allocations to the project. Finally, there were instances during the project
implementation cycle that GOP did not comply with the Covenants in the Loan
Agreement. In particular, Covenant 3.08(b) concerning the timely furnishing to the Bank
on progress reports on the execution of the Project was often complied with significant
delay. In addition, during the last phase of the Project's implementation, the Covenant
requiring that the Borrower maintain an adequately staffed PCU, was not met.

Rating: For all of the above reasons, the ICR rates the Borrower performance at
implementation as moderately unsatisfactory.

Overall Rating of Borrower's Performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

MED, through is mainline Directorates and the PCU became the implementing agency of
this Project. Along the changes of Ministers of Education, the PCU also experienced a




17Gerardo Ayzanoa del Carpio (June 2002- May 2003), Carlos Malpica Faustor (May 2003-February 2004),
Javier Sota Nadal (February 2004-July 2006) and José Antonio Chang Escobedo (July 2006 ­ present).




                                                  35

change of coordinators. A total of five PCU coordinators18, with an average tenure of
about one year, attempted, quite unsuccessfully, to manage Project activities from Board
approval in May 2003 to the closing of the Loan in December 31, 2007. The same issues
described above concerning the arrival of new teams at the MED, was reflected in the
PCU. Besides, it took some time after loan effectiveness to have the PCU fully staffed,
not necessarily with qualified staff.

The PCU, had difficulties in establishing a strategic vision in their undertaking of their
managerial and executive tasks. They lacked, by and large, leadership and clarity as to
how to make policies happen and displayed a weak implementation capacity. The lack of
managerial strategy was, for example, manifested and perceived in the field where
regional authorities and school members complained that Project consultants arrived to
carry out their own tasks without prior coordination. The Bank supervision reports
consistently attested to the insufficient or non-existent internal coordination of the PCU.
Despite the heavy and cumbersome coordination mechanism put in place in MED,
effective accountability mechanisms were still lacking.

The ex-post procurement assessment findings and recommendations took a considerable
amount of time to be appropriately addressed by MED and the PCU. Likewise with the
financial supervision recommendations, which were not timely followed up by the MED
and the PCU, to the point that the last ISRs rated the fiduciary aspects of the Project as
unsatisfactory.

For the above reasons, the ICR rates the implementing agency performance of
moderately unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Weighing the ratings of the Borrower at the lending and implementation phases, with the
ratings of the implementing agency, the ICR rates the overall Borrower performance as
moderately unsatisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

(a) Assessment of sector policy, commitment and capacities is critical for the
       selection of the appropriate lending instrument. This Project was designed as the


18The first one lasting from 2002 to 2003; the second from 2003 to 2005; the third from 2005 to 2006; the
fourth from 2006 to 2007; and the last one just recently appointed in 2007.




                                                    36

    first phase of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). APLs support a long term vision
    and depend on the compliance of agreed "triggers" linked to the medium term
    sector policies. This instrument is relevant when institutions are strong and have a
    track record of consistency for a period of time that goes beyond that expected for
    the project itself. While this Project was designed during a period when the
    Ministry of Education had shown continuity in its policies, the frequent changes in
    Ministers and the subsequent changes in vision were not foreseen. Thus, this type
    of lending instrument was not appropriate for such a highly uncertain context where
    the continuity of the sector policy framework was not in place. In such cases,
    selecting a Sector Investment Loan might have been more effective.

(b) Ensuring that sector data is reliable and timely facilitates sustaining an efficient
    monitoring and evaluation system. High quality information at the start of a project
    is a prerequisite for designing a sound monitoring platform that allows monitoring
    targets throughout the process and make adjustments, if necessary. Additionally,
    baseline data is key for conducting an impact evaluation to assess change overtime.
    One of the main challenges faced by this Project was the lack of reliable data during
    the design. Thus, the Ministry had to use inaccurate demographic projections and
    home survey data, for lack of adequate administrative institutional data.             The
    baseline data for the Project was made available only in mid-2006 providing
    evidence that some of the estimated baseline data, at the time of appraisal, was not
    accurate.    Unfortunately, the Ministry did not show sufficient interest nor the
    capacity to undertake an impact evaluation study beyond the 2004 National
    Learning Assessment and the 2007 Student Census, so that the outcomes could not
    be measured.

(c) Validating and evaluating pilot experiences prior to scaling-up is critical when
    models have not been previously tested. Piloting allows the researcher to test
    procedures and assumptions that can later on be readjusted, if necessary, to scale up.
    This Project was originally conceived as an opportunity to finance the design and
    implementation of a series of pilots to test pedagogical and school management
    models in rural areas which had been implemented successfully in other countries.
    Still, given that the Peruvian context was different, piloting was deemed necessary,
    to assess the design, prior to scaling up. In practice, the delayed launching of these
    pilots let to a rush towards scaling up prior to the completion of the evaluation cycle.
    Thus, several issues remained unanswered including the interconnection among
    pilot activities, as well as the identification of conditions for their generalization and
    the definition of the evaluation criteria for the models. All this worked against the
    successful implementation and sustainability of the Project.

(d) While the use of institutional administrative and fiduciary institutions is
    desirable, capacity needs to be assessed prior to its use for project implementation.
    The potential for sustainability is greater when institutional administrative systems
    are used. However, if capacity is weak, the potential for project failure is very large.
    This was the case for this Project, where the policy was implemented de facto
    without appropriate assessment and with no strengthening plan. Thus, streamlining



                                              37

      into sectoral administrative systems needs to be phased, ensuring adequate capacity
      for implementation and accountability.

(e)   Political commitment, support and ownership are key conditions for success.
      Political support is linked to decision-making about human and financial resources
      allocation to ensure adequate implementation of a project. In the case of this
      Project, the frequent changes in ministers (there were six different Ministers, whose
      average tenure, was about one year) and the consequent changes of Directors and
      Project Managers, resulted in reduced ownership of the project and changes in
      priorities. As a result, the higher levels of the Ministry did not prioritize the Project
      and human resource allocation weakened with time. Even though the Bank team
      discussed the Project with all new incoming teams, the vision of improving rural
      education was lost for other priorities brought by the new administrations. Thus,
      political risk is critical for Project implementation.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Ministries of Education and Finance submitted comments to the draft ICR. While
both agree that Project implementation did not lead to the desired results, they do not
fully agree on the underlying causes. Both agree that design was much too complex. But,
the Ministry of Education also argued that the context changed significantly between
preparation and implementation. Furthermore, MED suggested that the evaluation should
have been carried out against the new targets proposed under the proposed restructured
Project. Given Bank evaluation guidelines, this was not possible, as the restructuring
process did not officially occur. On the other hand, MEF argued that, once problems in
Project design were found, implementation should have stopped in those areas to be
restructured, and redesign be carried out under new rigorous diagnostic studies. While
this is desirable technically, it runs counter to the agreed timing for Project
implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable




                                               38

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                           Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest
             Components                                                      Percentage of
                                            (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                                millions)     Appraisal

1. Expanding Education Access for
Rural children
1.1 Access to quality initial and preschool
    education                                    2.71             3.11           114
1.2 Secondary distance education                 7.83             2.87            37
2. Improving the quality in rural
schools
2.1 Continuous teacher development
    systems                                      24.86            14.81           60
2.2 Curricular adjustment and provision
    of educational materials                     9.09             5.28            58
2.3 Rehabilitation and equipping of rural
    schools.                                     29.63            14.70           50


3. Reform of teacher policy and
education management
3.1 Teacher policy studies                       1.60             0.88            57
3.2 Reform of education management               6.94             7.55           109
3.3 School development fund                      1.76             0.02            1
3.4 National assessment system                   4.61             3.94            85
3.5 Strategic analysis and policy-oriented
    research                                     2.82             0.90            32
3.6 Project Management                           1.83             2.69           147



                    Total Baseline Cost          93.68
Physical Contingencies                           0.00             0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                              0.00             0.00           0.00
Total project costs                              93.68            56.75           61
Front-end-fee                                    0.52             0.52          100.00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00             0.00           0.00

Total                                            94.20            57.27           61




                                                      39

(b) Financing
                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest

        Source of Funds     Type of    Estimate   Estimate    Percentage of
                           Cofinancing  (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                       millions)  millions)

IBRD                                     52.5       28.98          55

GOP                        Counterpart   28.84      17.63          61

IDB                          Parallel    12.86      10.66          83

Total                                    94.2       57.27          61




                                  40

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This section describes the outputs of each of the three components including all sources
of financing. The assessment is primarily based on the quarterly FMRs, the November
2006 mid-term review report and the note that was prepared by the Bank in mid-2007
justifying the possibility of extending the closing of the loan by 18 months and
restructuring (significantly simplifying) the project design.

Two cost tables are presented to substantiate the story provided in the ICR: (a) the
documented expenditure by component and by source of financing at appraisal and at the
time of closing the Loan; and (b) the documented expenditure by category and by source
of financing at appraisal and at the time of closing the Loan.

Component A ­ Expanding Education Access for Rural Children.                              According to
Table 6 below, this component estimated to cost about US$10.56 million (US$6.99
million from the Loan and US$3.56 million from GOP), ended up documenting
expenditures amounting to US$5.98 million (US$3.22 million from the Loan and
US$2.76 million from GOP), 57 percent of the total estimated at appraisal. This financial
shortfall is explained by the limited expansion in access for rural children achieved
during project implementation as compared to the original targets set at appraisal for
reasons described below.

Component A was implemented in 57 districts in 7 of the original 11 Regions included
in the Project Area (Amazonas, Ayacucho, Cusco, Huancavelica, Piura, Puno and San
Martin). It financed the piloting and validation of three models for initial education for 0-
2 year-old children and the strengthening of another two existing preschool education
models for 3-5 year-old children (the Centros de Educación Inicial ­ CEIs -and the
Programas No Escolarizados de Educación Inicial - PRONOEI).                             Alongside the
validation of these pedagogical models, the project also financed the alignment of in-
service teacher training, the provision of appropriate learning materials for children,
parents and teachers and the training of parents. After validations of these models, they
were gradually scaled up benefiting about 1,875 children in the age-group 0-2 years-old,
including their families. This Component also financed the strengthening of 59 CEIs and
141 PRONOEIs benefiting 4,225 children in the 3-5 year-old age-cohort.

These accomplishments fell significantly short with respect to the original targets set for
in the PAD of benefiting 30,000 children in the 0-2 age-cohort and another 11,000
children in the 3-5 year-old range. Assumptions made at the preparation phase with
respect to the provision of initial education models in rural areas, which did not match
reality during implementation, partially explain this shortfall19. This caused the need for


19The model required more on-site support that originally planned in the design, which in turn required the
hiring of more qualified consultants in the MED's technical team. The assumptions made on the expected
demand of parents willing to enroll into the program did not materialize either. Lack of local capacity to
implement the delivery models also contributed to the delays.



                                                   41

additional fine-tuning of the delivery model, thus further delaying implementation and
therefore, limiting the expected financial and physical progress of this activity under
Component A.

The above efforts entailed the training of about 362 staff and facilitators in all the initial
and preschool services financed by the Project as well as the provision of about 109,500
sets of learning materials and training modules (against 200,000 sets included as a target
in the PAD). The Project also financed the replacement of 10 classrooms in 5 CEIs.

Component A also financed the launching and validation of the secondary distance
education model (Educación Secundaria con Metodología a Distancia ­ ESMED)
benefiting 875 students (against the original target of 5,000 set in the PAD). This
component financed the acquisition and distribution of about 28,018 textbooks including
other learning materials and educational videos (against the original target of 50,000 set
in the PAD). It also financed the training of 40 teachers and 20 school principals
involved in the delivery of ESMED.

Rating component A. This Component fell short of its envisaged physical and financial
targets, and is thus rated moderately unsatisfactory. IDB is currently preparing an
initial education project which is expected to bring to scale the validated models under
this project. However, the SNIP appraisal period is resulting very extensive and political
commitment appears doubtful.       The secondary education model is not expected to
continue as it has not been validated.

Component B ­ Improving Quality in Rural Primary Schools. According to Table 4
below, this core component estimated to cost about US$63.59 million (US$32.07 million
from the Loan and US$31.52 million from GOP), ended up documenting expenditures
amounting to US$34.79 million (US$15.78 million from the Loan and US$19.01 million
from GOP), 55 percent of the total estimated at appraisal. This financial shortfall is also
explained by the deficit in achieving the original targets set at appraisal (fully described
below).

Component B financed the establishment of in-service teacher training modules focusing
on multi-grade methodologies and bilingual and intercultural education including a
review of the curriculum, training, development and acquisition of learning materials and
rehabilitation and construction of classrooms. The bilingual and intercultural activities
were mainstreamed into other related activities (like multi-grade, teacher training,
development and procurement of learning materials) during Project implementation.
Accordingly: (i) a multi-grade teaching model was validated and provided to 10,711
children in 222 schools including the training of 448 teachers; (ii) a bilingual intercultural
pedagogical strategy was defined, validated and applied benefiting 239,250 children
including the training of 1,976 initial and 11,976 primary bilingual intercultural teachers;
(iii) a total of 374 Spanish speaking teachers in initial education and 1,513 in primary
education were trained; (iv) a total of 1.7 million working books in 15 ethnic languages
were distributed, not necessarily on a timely fashion, benefiting about 94,580 children;
(v) a total of 293 classrooms were rehabilitated; and (vi) school and other type of



                                             42

furniture was provided to 717 classrooms and 196 local administrative offices in the
education sector.

These achievements fell short of the original targets included in the PAD, namely: (a)
continuous teacher training to be provided to 3,800 teachers in the Project area working
in multi-grade schools and 15,000 bilingual teachers nationwide; (b) 330,000 rural
children in the Project Area and 375,000 indigenous children nationwide to benefit from
all the quality-related interventions (provision of learning materials including bilingual
educational materials and improved teaching practices); (c) a total of 1.8 million working
books to be distributed to multi-grade and bilingual schools; and (d) equipping,
rehabilitating and substituting of 1,900 classrooms and 1,500 complementary facilities in
the Project Area.

This component also did not achieve the original design objective and required
adjustments during the implementation cycle, in particular with respect to the multi-grade
strategy.     In addition, despite the multiple recommendations made by the Bank
supervision missions, MED was not able to connect and enrich the ongoing multi-grade
and bilingual interventions financed by the Project with lessons learned from other
similar ongoing experiences in the country provided by some non-governmental
organizations (such as TAREA, APRENDES, a USAID financed project, CEPROSI,
ADEAS Qullana, etc) and elsewhere in the region, like "Escuela Nueva" in Colombia
and Guatemala.

With respect to the infrastructure sub-component, delays in implementation were caused
both by exogenous and endogenous problems. Changes in national legislation made it
impossible for the Bank to deposit the funds directly to FONCODES forcing an
amendment that would allow MED to make the transfers to FONCODES. In addition,
there were problems with change in the unit costs due to rapid devaluation of the dollar,
climatologically conditions, like rain, partly explain the construction delays. Finally,
FONCODES was severely weakened when it was transferred to MIMDES and had
difficulties meeting its side of the contract.

Rating component B. Despite this Component fell short of its envisaged physical and
financial targets, it is being rated moderately satisfactory because it achieved the
validation of a multi-grade          20  and bilingual bicultural pedagogical strategies and
corresponding in-service teacher training as well as provision of appropriate learning
materials, which are currently being technically, institutionally and financially sustained
and expanded by the GOP with their own resources, albeit to a lesser extent than would
have occurred under the Project. Further to this, the Project contributed to the curriculum
development and implementation of the bilingual education program at the initial level.
Previously, initial education children received their education in Spanish regardless of
their mother tongue or the language of schooling they would receive at the primary level.


20Still with possibilities to improve by incorporating good practices and lessons learned from other multi-
grade approaches utilized in other countries.




                                                    43

Component C ­ Reform of Teacher Policy and Educational Management. This
component was originally estimated to cost about US$19.53 million (US$ 12.96 million
from the Loan and US$ 6.57 million from GOP), ended up documenting expenditures
amounting to US$15.98 million (US$9.46 million from the Loan and US$6.52 million
from GOP), 82 percent of the total estimated at appraisal.

With respect to the Teacher Policy Reform, this Component financed: (i) the
development of a plan to strengthen 16 pre-service teacher-training institutions that will
be implemented during 2008; (ii) the assessment and implementation of revised
curriculums for pre-service teacher development in the specialties of primary education,
bilingual and intercultural education, art and initial education; and (iii) the
implementation of 3 out of 6 Centros Amauta. The teacher career development system
envisaged in the original design was not implemented during the project cycle as the
forthcoming National Educational Assessment and Certification System (Sistema
Nacional de Acreditación y Certificación Educativa, SINEACE) is soon to be launched.

With respect to the national assessment system, this Component financed activities of the
Unidad de Medición de la Calidad Educativa and the Unidad de Estadística Educativa.
The former implemented several activities under the Project: (i) the learning
measurement undertaken in 2004 and (ii) the Student Census Learning Assessment for
second graders and bilingual fourth graders administered in December 2007, whose
preliminary findings will be made available in the second semester of 2008. Additionally,
the Unit implemented several other research, dissemination and training-related activities
such as: (i) Dissemination of the 2004 learning assessment through workshops at local
level and training, (ii) dissemination of the school self-assessment kit, (iii) longitudinal
study to track learning outcomes in a cohort, (iv) teacher research context based on the
2004 learning assessment results, (v) implementation of the Communication learning
assessment for native language-speaking communities Shipibo-Conibo and Quechua
Ayacucho-Chanka, (vi) implementation of the SERCE-LLECE evaluation, (vii) pre-pilot
study for the 2007 learning assessment (that included Initial level), and (viii) a qualitative
study on school efficacy. In addition, the Unidad de Estadística Educativa worked on the
expansion of geo-referenced educational models, the design of spatial accessibility
protocols and indicators, the reconfiguration of Rural School Networks and the database
that provided input for the School Linguistic Map in coordination with the Dirección
Nacional de Educación Bilingüe, Intercultural y Rural. The Unit also coordinated the
study on Demand and Supply of Secondary Education in Rural Areas that generated
updated information on this subject.

With respect to the establishment, training and monitoring of School Councils and School
Network Councils, this Component benefited 96 educational networks and established
1,231 CONEIs aimed at empowering the communities and democratize the decision
making at the school level. This training program was designed and implemented using
the model validated by DFID. This effort included the training of 7,647 School Council
and School Network Council members. However, the tangible benefits and impact these
councils and networks had in improving community participation and social control of



                                            44

the schools are negligible, to the point that these activities were not any longer
incorporated in the restructuring proposal. In addition, the targets achieved are below the
ones set at appraisal - 3,000 CONEIs to be established and 10,000 people to be trained.

The Component also financed activities to strengthen nine lower level education
administrative units (DRE y UGEL), with no visible improvement on the management
effectiveness and efficiency of the MED. The School Development Fund to finance the
design and implementation of improvement programs developed and managed by schools
and school networks in the Project Areas was never implemented

Finally, the subcomponent on Strategic Analysis and Policy-oriented Research financed
the implementation of the baseline study under the supervision of the PCU's Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit.

This component gets a mixed rating. The strengthening of the national assessment
system is rated satisfactory and is considered by the ICR as one of the best achievements
of this project. It is however unfortunate for the purposes of the ICR assessment that the
MED decided to postpone the new learning assessment to 2008 instead of the original
date of 2007 thus preventing gathering key data to measure if there were learning
improvements in the Project Area. The teacher policy reform is rated as moderately
satisfactory, as the conducive environment to implement the proposed improvements
was set but the actual implementation of these recommendations just barely got off the
ground at the time of closing the loan. The efforts to improve community participation in
the education sector through the School Councils and School Council Networks is rated
unsatisfactory because, despite the limited achievements with respect to the original
targets, their impact in improving community participation and social control is neither
visible nor measurable.             Finally, the School Development Fund is rated highly
unsatisfactory because it never was implemented.                            Weighting the above, the
implementation of this Component is rated as moderately satisfactory.

 Table 4: Documented expenditures by component and by source at appraisal and
                              closing of the Credit (in US$ millions)

 Component        At the time of appraisal     At the time of Credit closing           Percentages
               IBRD        GOP         Total  IBRD         GOP          Total
                 (1)        (2)         (3)     (4)         (5)          (6)   (4)/(1)  (5)/(2)    (6)/(3)
Component A.    6.99        3.56       10.56   3.22        2.76         5.98    46        78        57
Component B.    32.07      31.52       63.59   15.78       19.01        34.29   49        60        55
Component C.    12.91       6.62       19.53   9.46        6.52         15.98   73        98        82
Total project  51.98       41.70      93.68   28.46        28.29        56.75   55        68        61
costs
Front-end fee   0.52        0.00       0.52    0.52        0.00         0.52    100      NA         100
Total          52.50       41.70       94.20  28.98        28.29        57.27   55        68        61


According to Table 4, the total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$94.2 million
equivalent, corresponding US$52.5 million equivalent from the Bank (55 percent of the
total) and US$41.7 million equivalent from the GOP (44 percent of the total). At the time
of the closing of the Loan, the total documented expenditure amounted to US$57.27


                                                    45

million equivalent (61 percent of the appraised total), corresponding US$328.98 million
equivalent from the Bank (55 percent of the appraised total) and US$328.29 million
equivalent from the GOP (68 percent of the appraised total).

    Table 5: Documented expenditures by category and by source at appraisal and
                                 closing of the Loan (in US$ millions)

 Category of         At the time of appraisal      At the time of Loan closing           Percentages
 Expenditure


                IBRD        GOP           Total   IBRD         GOP         Total
                 (1)         (2)           (3)     (4)          (5)         (6)   (4)/(1)  (5)/(2)  (6)/(3)
Infrastructure  6.80        2.91          9.71     2.41        10.76       13.17   35        370     136
Goods           6.60        1.65          8.25     1.97        0.48         2.45   30        29      30
Consultants     14.67       3.66          18.34   14.82        3.54        18.36   101       97      100
Training        12.50       7.34          19.84    5.02        2.94         7.96   40        40      40
Operating       9.40        26.13         35.5     4.22        10.57       14.79   45        40      42
costs
Unallocated      2.00                     2.00     0.00                    0.000
Front-end fee   0.52                      0.52     0.52                    0.525   100               100
Total           52.50       41.70         94.20   28.98        28.29       57.27   55        68      61


According to Table 5 above, the project underperformed with respect to the expected,
acquisition of goods and training set at appraisal. It did, however, reach the consultant
financial target. The above is an indication of that training was carried out, but using
mainly consultants as opposed to the original design that proposed more workshops and
follow-up strategies.




                                                     46

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Estimation of economic rates of return (ERR) was not possible. Increase in the average
number of school years in the target areas could not be calculated with the available
survey data. Improvement in the educational outcomes could not be calculated as the
2007 student assessment was not carried out. Without this information, it was not
possible to estimate increase in beneficiary productivity and future salaries.

As a formal ERR could not be estimated, actual costs were compared with the outcomes
of the project for the primary education interventions. In the case of initial education,
there was no available data that would allow for the comparison before and after the
project. On the other hand, the analysis for the secondary education interventions was not
relevant since the secondary distance education program was carried out as a pilot only in
X schools.

Costs

The total Project investments were US$ 61.05 million (US$ 30.56 million Bank-financed,
and US$ 30.49 million financed by the GOP and the IDB), representing 64.8 percent of
the amount estimated at appraisal. Investments linked to primary education expenditures
amounted to US$ 54.67 million.

Benefits

The primary school enrollment increased during the implementation period for both the
rural areas and the whole national territory (with the increase being higher in rural areas).
From 2003 to 2007, the net coverage rate of primary education either increased or
remained with no significant changes every year (see Table 6).

                                           Table 6
                       Net coverage rate for primary education1
                                   (confidence intervals)

                       Year           National                Rural
                                       90.47                  89.38
                       2003
                                 ( 89.47    91.48 )     ( 87.79   90.96 )
                                       89.82                  88.17
                       2004
                                 ( 88.78    90.87 )     ( 86.37   89.97 )
                                       90.66                  91.77
                       2005
                                 ( 89.58    91.75 )     ( 90.36   93.17 )
                                       92.52                  91.51
                       2006
                                 ( 91.62    93.42 )     ( 90.00   93.03 )
                                       92.66                  93.09
                       2007
                                 ( 91.95    93.37 )     ( 92.03   94.16 )
                     Source: National Household Surveys 2003-2004




                                              47

An analysis of the distribution of the primary school students by age shows that there was
an increase of the percentage of children that attend their corresponding grade. This
increase has been much higher in the districts were PEAR was carried out than in the
national average.

                                          Table 7
                     Percentage of enrollment at the appropriate age


                 2004                 2005                 2006          Variation 2004-2006
                                                                                (%)
 Grade
          National    PEAR                PEAR                 PEAR                  PEAR
                      districts National  districts National   districts National   districts
   1       69.29       63.18     69.49     62.90     71.57      65.48     3.28        3.65
   2       57.11       45.96     56.24     48.22     59.28      48.78     3.80        6.15
   3       50.87       36.49     51.34     38.80     52.11      41.72     2.44       14.33
   4       48.58       34.69     48.80     34.82     50.32      38.68     3.58       11.50
   5       45.91       32.26     46.91     34.28     48.11      34.10     4.80        5.71
   6       45.94       33.67     45.97     32.37     48.12      36.09     4.74        7.20
  1-6      53.10       41.58     53.22     42.54     54.95      44.57     3.48        7.21
Source: School Census 2004-2006


The fact that more children are attending school at the appropriate age for grade level
shows that students are completing the primary school faster. This means that students
remain less years in the school. This reduction of the number of years that children enroll
in primary school, lead to savings for the government and the families, since the
government will have to finance less average years of education per student and the
families will have to spend less money sending their children to school during a shorter
period. Unfortunately, the exact amount of the savings cannot be calculated because the
short analysis period.




                                             48

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

         Names                          Title                  Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Livia Benavides          SeniorSocial Sector Specialist    LCSHH       Task team leader
Keisgner Alfaro          Senior Procurement Specialist     LCOPR       Procurement
Fabiola Altimari         Legal Specialist                  Consultant  Legal issues
                                                                       Mission logistical
Ana Maria Arteaga        Staff Assistance                  LCSHD       support
Barbara Bruns            Institutional Reform Specialist   HDNED       Education reforms
Virginia Cachay          Cost specialist                   Consultant  Cost tables
Jorge Cavero             Procurement Specialist            Consultant  Procurement
Daniel Cotlear           Sector Leader                     LCSHD       Bank management
Ernesto Cuadra           Senior Education Specialist       ECSHD       Peer reviewer
Santiago Cueto           Education Specialist              Consultant  Education
Francoise Delannoy       Education Specialist              Consultant  Teacher reform
                                                                       Pedagogy, teacher
David Harding            Education Specialist              LCSHD       training
Antonio Gomes Pereira    Education Specialist              Consultant  Teacher training
                                                                       World Links Peru
Jorge Gutierrez          Technical Education Specialist    WBIHD       program
Gabriela Falconi         Program Assistant                 LCSHD       Drafting of PAD
Veronica Jarrin          Language Program Assistant        LCSHD       Operation support
                                                                       Educational
Peter Knight             Information Technology Specialist Consultant  technology
Luis Enrique Lopez       Rural Education Specialist        Consultant  Bilingual education
Ramiro Lopez             Rural Education Specialist        Consultant  Education networks
                                                                       Financial
Patricia McKenzie        Financial Management Specialist   LCOFM       management
Isabella Micali Drossos  Senior Legal Counsel              LEGLA       Negotiations
                                                                       Secondary distance
Michael Moore            Distance Education Specialist     Consultant  education
Xiomara Morel            Senior Finance Officer            LOAG1       Disbursements
Ruth Moya                Bilingual education specialist    Consultant  Bilingual education
Paud Murphy              Senior Education specialist       AFTH1       PCN Peer reviewer
Julie B. Nannucci        Language Program Assistant        LCSHD       Operation support
                                                                       Institutional
Cristina Pareja          Education Management Specialist   Consultant  strengthening
Carlos Rojas             Senior Education Specialist       LCSHD       Rural education
                                                                       Financial
Ana Karina Rozas         Junior Professional               LCSHD       management
Jaime Saavedra           Education Economist               Consultant  Economic analysis
Eleanor Schreiber        Senior Operations Officer         LCSHD       Education policy



                                               49

                                                                     Civil works and
Luis Secco             Infrastructure Specialist         Consultant  equipment
                                                                     Aide Memoire
Isabel Segovia         Education                         Consultant  coordinator
                                                                     Financial
Paul Sisk              Financial Management Specialist   LCOFM       management
                                                                     External peer
Maria Teresa Tato      Education Specialist              Consultant  reviewer
Cecilia Thorne         Education Materials Specialist    Consultant  Learning materials
David Varela           Legal Counsel                     LEGLA       Loan agreement
                                                                     Mission logistical
Nelly Vergara          Project Assistant                 LCSHD       support
Luisa Yesquen          Language Program Assistant        LCSHD       Operation support
                                                                     Gender and
Alfonso Zarzar         Social Sector Specialist          LCSES       indigenous issues
                                                                     Civil works and
Alberto Zuñiga         Infrastructure Specialist         Consultant  equipment
Supervision/ICR
Livia Benavides        Senior Social Sector Specialist   LCSHD       Task team leader
Keisgner Alfaro        Senior Procurement Specialist     LCOPR       Procurement
Patricia Alvarez       Operations Officer                LCSHD       Implementation
Erika Bazan            Operational Assistant             LCSHD       Logistical support
                                                                     Monitoring and
Erik Bloom             Human Develop. Economist          LCSHD       evaluation
Daniel Cotlear         Sector Leader                     LCSHD       Bank management
                                                                     Financial
Nocolas Drossos        Financial Management Specialist   Consultant  management
Antonio Gomes Pereira  Education Specialist              Consultant  Teacher training
                                                                     Financial
Nelly Ikeda            Financial Management Specialist   LCOFM       management
Luis Enrique Lopez     Rural Education Specialist        Consultant  Bilingual education
                                                                     Financial
Patricia McKenzie      Financial Management Specialist   LCOFM       management
                                                                     Institutional
Aldo Ortiz             Implementation Specialist         Consultant  arrangements
Carmen Osorio          Junior Professional Associate     LCSHD       Operations support
                                                                     Institutional
Cristina Pareja        Education Management Specialist   Consultant  strengthening
Carlos Rojas           Senior Education Specialis        LCSHD       Rural education
                                                                     Financial
Ana Karina Rozas       Junior Professional Associate     LCSHD       management
                                                                     Civil works and
Luis Secco             Infrastructure Specialist         Consultant  equipmentg
                                                                     Financial
Luis Schwarz           Financial Management Specialist   LCOFM       management
                                                                     Monitoring and
Sergei Soares          Education Economist               LCSHD       evaluation
                                                                     Overall supervision
Cynthia Vainstein      Summer Intern                     LCSHD       support
Silvana Vargas         Monitoring-evaluation specialist  Consultant  Monitoring and



                                              50

                                                                        evaluation

Eduardo Velez Bustillo  Sector Manager                    LCSHD         Bank management
Evelyn Villatoro        Procurement Specialist            LCOPR         Procurement
Luisa Yesquen           Language Program Assistant        LCSHD         Operation support
                                                                        Gender and
Alfonso Zarzar          Social Sector Specialist          LCSES         indigenous issues



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                        No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                      0.00
  FY99                                                                      1.71
  FY00                                           19                        74.69
  FY01                                            8                        17.92
  FY02                                           41                       264.64
  FY03                                           10                        45.36
  FY04                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                      0.00
                          Total:                 78                       404.32
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                      0.00
  FY99                                                                      0.00
  FY00                                                                      0.17
  FY01                                                                      0.00
  FY02                                                                      0.00
  FY03                                           12                        41.54
  FY04                                           25                        94.78
  FY05                                           24                        80.64
  FY06                                           26                        89.95
  FY07                                           39                       138.74
  FY08                                           22                        46.91
                          Total:                148                       492.73




                                              51

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                    52

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                  53

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Ministry of Education sent its Project Completion Report to the Bank on April 8,
2008. Additionally, the Ministry of Education submitted comments to the draft ICR and
updated data on June 19, 2008. The Ministry of Finance submitted separate comments on
June 20, 2008. Both sets of comments have been included in this final version of the
Bank's ICR. A copy of the Project Completion Report and of the comments are available
in the Project file.




                                         54

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    55

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

Peru Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board July 22, 1997 (Report 97-161).
Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
      Bank. August 11, 1999.
Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
      Bank. November 5, 1999.
Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
      Bank. October 1, 2001.
Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The
      World Bank. March 5, 2002.
Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
      Bank. May 08, 2002.
Pre-negotiations Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The
      World Bank. May 7, 2003.

Project Concept Document (PCD), The World Bank, October 19, 2001.
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No 23843-PE. The World Bank, April 30,2003.
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. April 25, 2003.

Bank project implementation documents

Loan Agreement 7176-PE. The World Bank. Conformed copy December5, 2003.
Amendment to the Loan Agreements. September 13, 2005 (Cancellation of the Special Account)
Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters,
      Project Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status and Results (ISRs) of all the
      Supervision Mission.s

Bank and Borrower other project implementation-related documents

Project Implementation Plan (2003 ­ 2005)
Quarterly FMRs
Annual FM audits
Ex-post Procurement Audits
Annual Project Implementation Reports (2004, 2005, 2006)
PEAR Final Evaluation (April, 2007).
Operations Manual
Comments from MED to Draft ICR (June 19, 2008)
Comments from MEF to Draft ICR (June 20, 2008)




                                              56

