Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4757 RO 
 
RNCMNR Project Agreement 
 
(Transport Restructuring Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
ROMANIAN NATIONAL COMPANY OF MOTORWAYS  
AND NATIONAL ROADS (RNCMNR) 
 
Dated January 28, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4757 RO 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated January 28, 2005 between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ROMANIAN 
NATIONAL COMPANY OF MOTORWAYS AND NATIONAL ROADS (RNCMNR). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Romania 
(the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount equal to two hundred twenty-five million dollars ($225,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that RNCMNR 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, 
MTCT, and RNCMNR, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement in the amount of up to $149,000,000 equivalent will be made available to 
RNCMNR on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS RNCMNR, in considerati
on
of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 2.01. (a)  RNCMNR declares its commitment to the objectives of Part A 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Part A of the Project. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and RNCMNR shall otherwise agree, RNCMNR shall carry out 
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services
 
required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
 
shall be governed by the provisions of the 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) RNCMNR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, RNCMNR shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and RNCMNR, a plan for the future operation 
of Part A of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
RNCMNR on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. RNCMNR shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
RNCMNR shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) RNCMNR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
RNCMNR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by RNCMNR of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of RNCMNR 
 
Section 3.01. RNCMNR shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. RNCMNR shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and technical practices. 
 
Section 3.03. RNCMNR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE IV
 
Financial and Other Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) RNCMNR shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) RNCMNR 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period as agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period as agreed to by the Bank) as 
so audited; (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors in 
Page  5
-
4
-
scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and (C) separate audit 
reports on the project accounts; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, and accounts and the audit of such financial statements  
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) RNCMNR shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part A of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in  implementation of Part A of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 4.03. RNCMNR shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, within 120 days from the Project Effectiveness date, and quarterly thereafter, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
Part A of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
consolidate the fourth quarterly report pursuant to Section 4.03 (b) above 
into the Annual Report for each calendar year, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, 
outlining the progress made in the implementation of Part A of the Project and including 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the following calendar year; and 
 
(d) 
carry out a mid-term review with the Bank, by September 30, 2007, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report an
d
taking into account the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
 
Section 4.04. RNCMNR shall maintain a project management unit (PMU) with a 
sufficient number of qualified staff and adequate facilities, as satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of RNCMNR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify RNCMNR thereof. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For RNCMNR: 
 
Romanian National Company of Motorways and National Roads 
 
38,
Dinicu Golescu, Floor 8 
 
77113 Bucharest, 1 
 
Romania 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of RNCMNR, may 
be taken or executed by its Director General or such other person or persons as said 
Director General shall designate in writing, and RNCMNR shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bucharest, Romania,
 
as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 /s/  Mihail Basulescu 
Authorized Representative 
 
ROMANIAN NATIONAL COMPANY OF 
MOTORWAYS 
AND NATIONAL ROADS 
 
By  
/s/  Anand Seth 
Authorized Representative 
 
