Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4757 RO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Transport Restructuring Project) 
 
between 
 
ROMANIA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 28, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4757 RO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 28, 2005, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
(A)  
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)  
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Romanian National 
Company of Motorways and National Roads (RNCMNR), Part B of the Project will be 
carried out by the National  Railway Company of Romania (CFR), Part C of the Project 
will be carried out by SC METROREX SA (Metrorex), all with the assistance of the 
Borrower, acting through its Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism (MTCT), 
and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to RNCMNR, CFR, and 
Metrorex the portions of the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan), as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and RNCMNR (the 
RNCMNR Project Agreement), in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and CFR (the CFR Project Agreement), and in the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and Metrorex (the Metrorex Project Agreement). 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004)  (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“CFR Calatori” means the company responsible for provision of 
passenger railway services in the territory of the Borrower, or any successor thereto; 
 
(b) 
“CFR Marfa” means the company responsible for provision of freight 
railway services in the territory of the Borrower, or any successor thereto; 
 
(c) 
“CFR Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
CFR of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CFR Project Agreement; 
(d) 
“CFR Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower, MTCT, and CFR pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules to the CFR Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plans” means the plans, satisfactory to the 
Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower during May – August 2004, describing the 
environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for the Project; 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; Section 4.02 of the RNCMNR Project 
Agreement; Section 4.02 of the CFR Project Agreement; and Section 4.02 of the 
Metrorex Project Agreement; 
(g) 
“Land Acquisition Framework” means the laws and administrative 
procedures adopted by the Borrower, providing for processes and appropriate 
compensation for relocation of or loss of income to be incurred by individuals or business 
entities on account of land to be acquired for public purposes, including for  
implementation of the Project; 
(h) 
“Metrorex Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank 
and Metrorex of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Metrorex Project 
Agreement; 
(i) 
“Metrorex Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower, MTCT and Metrorex, pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Metrorex Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(j) 
“Performance Contract” means any contract concluded between an 
authorized passenger railway operator and MTCT, and approved by the Government of 
the Borrower, pursuant to Article 37 of the Government Emergency Ordinance No. 12 of 
1998 (as modified); and such Performance Contracts include, inter alia, the list of social 
Page  4
-
3
-
services to be provided by such passenger railway operators, as well as the amount to be 
transferred to these passenger railway operators by the Borrower as public service 
compensations; 
(k) 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan for the Project, dated 
October 7, 2004, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.04 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation;  
(l) 
“RNCMNR Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank 
and RNCMNR of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the RNCMNR 
Project Agreement;  
(m) 
“RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower, MTCT, and RNCMNR pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules to the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 (n) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions or in this Agreement to 
the Project implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to RNCMNR, CFR, or 
Metrorex, as the case may be. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred twenty-five million dollars (US$225,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through RNCMNR, CFR, and Metrorex, may, for the 
purposes of each of Parts A, B and C of the Project, respectively, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2009,  or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1.00%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall 
be payable not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1.00%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1.00%); (B) minus (or 
plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall:  
 
(a) 
cause RNCMNR, CFR and Metrorex to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the RNCMNR Project Agreement, the CFR Project Agreement, and the 
Metrorex Project Agreement all the obligations of RNCMNR, CFR and Metrorex therein 
set forth; and 
 
(b) 
take or cause to be taken all relevant actions, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
NCMNR, CFR and Metrorex, and to perform their obligations under the RNCNMR 
Project Agreement, the CFR Project Agreement, and the Metrorex Project Agreement, 
and  not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
for the purposes of Part A of the Project, relend to RNCMNR the portion 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a), 
and (4)(a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement, in the 
amount of up to $149,000,000 equivalent (the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan) under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, MTCT, and 
RNCMNR (the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement), under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include the following principal 
terms: (i) the principal amount of the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid in Lei in 
amounts equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment, 
according to Schedule 3 to this Agreement) to the amounts withdrawn from the Loan 
Account or paid out of the Special Account for Part A of the Project on account of goods 
and services for Part A of the Project, and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;  
(ii) the principal amount of the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period 
of no more than seventeen (17) years, including a grace period of no more than five (5) 
years; and (iii) RNCMNR shall pay interest and other charges on the principal amount of 
the Subsidiary Loan at a rate equal to the rate applicable to the Loan pursuant to  
Section 2.06 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
 for the purposes of Part B of the Project, relend to CFR the portion of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (2)(b), (3)(b) and 
(4)(b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement in the amount 
of up to $75,000,000 equivalent (the CFR Subsidiary Loan) under a subsidiary loan 
Page  8
-
7
-
agreement (the CFR Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower, MTCT, and CFR, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Bank;  
 
(c) 
for the purposes of Part C of the Project, relend to Metrorex the portion 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (3)(c) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement in the amount of up to $1,000,000 
equivalent (the Metrorex Subsidiary Loan) under a subsidiary loan agreement (the 
Metrorex Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower, MTCT, 
and Metrorex, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank;  
 
(d) 
 exercise its rights under the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof;  
 
(e) 
 exercise its rights under the CFR Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the CFR Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof; and 
 
(f) 
exercise its rights under the Metrorex Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Metrorex Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 3.01 and 3.02 
of this Agreement, and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and con
sultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower, through the project implementing entities, shall update 
the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
such update to the Bank not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding 
Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) Part A of the Project 
shall be carried out by RNCMNR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the RNCMNR Project 
Agreement; (b) Part B of the Project shall be carried out by CFR pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of the CFR Project Agreement; and (c) Part C of the Project shall be carried 
out by Metrorex pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Metrorex Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the project implementing entities, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank as soon as available,  
but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year (or such other period 
agreed to by the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank such other 
information concerning such records, accounts and the audit of 
such financial statements, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c)  
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
RNCNMR, CFR and Metrorex, shall: 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of  
Section 3.01 of this Agreement relating to the provision of funds for CFR for the 
implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall provide financing each year for railway 
passenger services in accordance with all applicable Performance Contracts. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
RNCMNR, CFR or Metrorex shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the RNCMNR Project Agreement,  the CFR Project Agreement, or the 
Metrorex Project Agreement, respectively; 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that RNCMNR, CFR or Metrorex will be able to perform its obligations under the 
RNCMNR Project Agreement, the CFR Project Agreement, or the Metrorex Project 
Agreement, respectively; 
 
(c) 
Law No. 47/2004 of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
RNCMNR to perform any of its obligations under the RNCNMR Project Agreement; 
and; 
 
(d) 
Government Decision No. 581 of 1998 shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of CFR to perform any of its obligations under the CFR Project Agreement. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower, MTCT, and RNCMNR;  
(b) 
the CFR Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower, MTCT, and CFR;  
 (c) 
the CFR five-year business plan including cash flow, and the RNCMNR 
five year investment plan, endorsed by the boards of the respective companies, 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a) 
that the RNCMNR Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by RNCMNR, and is legally binding upon RNCMNR in accordance with its 
terms;  
 
(b) 
that the CFR Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CFR, and is legally binding upon CFR in accordance with its terms; 
 
(c) 
that the Metrorex Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Metrorex, and is legally binding upon Metrorex in accordance with its terms; 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(d) 
that the RNCMNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the Borrower, MTCT, and RNCMNR and is legally binding in accordance 
with its terms; and 
 
(e) 
that the CFR Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower, MTCT, and CFR and is legally binding in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred fifty (150) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Public Finance 
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest 
Romania 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
11239 
  4021 
312 
6792 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ROMANIA 
 
By 
/s/  Ionel Popescu 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Anand Seth 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Works 
128,850,000 
100% of foreign 
 
under Part A 
 
expenditures, 
 
of the Project 
 
80% of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(2) Goods 
 
 
(a) under Part A 
1,100,000 
100% of foreign 
 
of
the Project 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(b) under Part B 
66,500,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
(3) 
Consultants' 
 
75% for local 
 
services, including  
 
individuals and firms; 
 
audit 
 
85% for foreign  
 
individuals and firms 
 
(a) under Part A 
16,990,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
(b) under Part B 
7,800,000 
 
 
 
of
the Project 
 
(c)  under Part C 
1,000,000 
 
of the Project 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(4) Training 
 
100% 
 
(a) under Part A 
60,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
(b) under Part B 
200,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
(5) Unallocated 
 
 
(a)  for Part A 
2,000,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
(b)  for Part B 
500,000
of the Project 
 
TOTAL 225,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
 the term “training” means Project related costs and expenses incurred in 
connection with study tours, seminars, workshops, and other training activities not 
included under a goods, construction, or other service provider’s contract; and shall 
include travel, accommodation and subsistence costs for the representatives of the 
Government and the Project implementing entities. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) any Category in the table in paragraph 1 above, unless the Bank has 
received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement; and (c) payments made for expenditures under Category (3)(c) set forth in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence that the 
Page  16
-
15
-
Metrorex Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, 
MTCT and Metrorex. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $2,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) for training, regardless of the 
amount thereof, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency of the railways and 
roads sub-sectors, reducing the overall costs of transportation, improving road safety, and 
reducing the negative impacts of traffic congestion and pollution in selected cities, and to 
support the institutional development of Metrorex. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Roads Sub-Sector
1. 
Institutional Development of RNCMNR
(a) 
 
Provision of technical assistance and related goods to support 
institutional development for RNCMNR, consisting of: (i) organizational development; 
(ii) review and update of functional and administrative classification of the public road 
network; (iii) development of RNCMNR environmental policy and program; and  
(iv) development of data services and analytical capabilities in road management. 
 
(b)  
Provision of technical assistance and related goods for development of 
RNCMNR planning methods and capabilities, consisting of: (i) use of road management 
systems to develop a rolling five-year program; and (ii) development of multi-year 
maintenance plans and methods and processes for their procurement. 
(c) 
Review, diagnosis and improvement of standard contract documents.  
(d) 
Harmonization and updating of RNCMNR technical specifications, 
geometric standards and documents with EU standards. 
(e) 
Carrying out of a road user charge study. 
(f)  
Audit of the Project accounts. 
2. 
Road Safety Improvement
Provision of civil works to support the “Linear Village” type traffic safety 
improvements and elimination of black spots; education and public awareness activities 
Page  18
-
17
-
such as workshops; technical support for the application of the traffic crash records 
database and implementation of the Busteni Linear Village pilot road safety plan. 
3. 
Construction and Supervision of Bypasses for Selected Cities
Provision of works and consultants’ services to relieve congestion, environmental 
pollution, and reduce travel costs for traffic traveling through selected cities (Bacau, 
Brasov, Reghin, Medias, and Targu Mures, with Adjud and Ramnicu-Sarat as additional 
cities subject to availability of funds).  
4. Bridge 
Rehabilitation
Repairs or replacement of selected high priority bridges in the public investment 
program of the Borrower. 
5. Training
Procurement of training and other staff development activities to improve 
knowledge and capabilities of the RNCMNR staff. 
Part B
:
Railways Sub-Sector
1. 
Commercialization of the Railway Industry and Technical Cooperation
Provision of management training to CFR to assist in the adoption of  
commercial/private sector practices; carrying out of studies to improve market focus for 
CFR-Marfa and CFR-Calatori redesign of the organization and the business processes for 
freight customer services, train operations, and infrastructure maintenance and 
management; provision of technical assistance to prepare CFR-Marfa for privatization.  
2. 
Improved Utilization of Information and Communications Technology
Provision of information and communications technology hardware and software 
to CFR to improve efficiency of the railway services and improve interoperability with 
the European network by completing the national data transmission network, and  
increasing the processing capacity of CFR’s existing database servers and providing  
access to additional railway units. 
3. 
Infrastructure Maintenance, Power Supply and Signaling Equipment
Provision of modern infrastructure maintenance equipment, and modern train 
control equipment to improve the quality of CFR’s service and reduce operating costs.  
Page  19
-
18
-
The equipment will include, inter alia, universal tamping machines, ballast prism 
profiling machines, universal ballast-scarifier and screening machines, special-purpose 
wagons for cleaning waste, tamping machines for tracks and switches, various small 
mechanization machines, and equipment for modernization of signaling and selected 
power supply stations and sub-stations. 
4. 
Systems for Quality and Environmental Management
Procurement of equipment for CFR to implement integrated systems of quality 
and environmental management to align Romanian railways with European standards for 
train operations.  
5. Training
Procurement of training and other staff development activities to improve 
knowledge and capabilities of the CFR staff. 
6. Audit
Provision of consultant services for audit of CFR financial statements and the 
Project accounts covering the financial years during project implementation. 
Part C
:
Urban Transport Sub-Sector (Metrorex)
Institutional Development 
Provision of technical assistance to support institutional development for MTCT 
and Metrorex, consisting of: (i) establishment of the Bucharest Metropolitan Transport 
Authority; (ii) reorganization of the Metrorex institutional structure to improve efficiency 
and effectiveness; (iii) feasibility studies for extensions to the Metrorex commuter 
services within Bucharest metropolitan districts; and (iv) provision of consultant services 
for audit of the Project accounts covering the financial years during Project 
implementation. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2009. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
USD 9,375,000 
 
beginning April 15, 2010   
 
through October 15, 2021 
 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures    
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding and the additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Page  22
-
21
-
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Annex to 
Schedule 4 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts 
Subject to National Competitive Bidding  
Contracts for goods or works for which Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement 
allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations with the 
following exceptions:  
A. Procedures
The Open Procedure, as defined in Article 9 of the “Emergency Ordinance 
Regarding Public Procurement”, shall be followed in all cases, irrespective of value. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily 
newspaper or the Official Gazette, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. 
B. 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, invitations 
to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper or the Official Gazette, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to 
the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. Minimum experience, 
technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification 
documents, which shall be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through use of a merit 
point system. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is 
recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying 
minimum experience, technical and financial requirements which shall be explicitly 
stated in the bidding documents. 
C. 
Participation by Government-Owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in Romania shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the contracting 
authority. Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security 
requirements as other bidders. 
D. Bidding 
Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods, works or services, which shall contain draft contract and 
Page  24
-
23
-
conditions of contract acceptable to the Bank. Bidding instructions shall clearly stipulate 
that discount, if any, must be stated by the bidder either in a cover letter or in the bid 
form. In case of joint ventures, bidding conditions shall stipulate joint and several 
liability of all the partners of the joint venture. 
E. 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation, Award of Contract
(a) Bids 
sh
all be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder’s 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened at the public 
bid opening. Should bids be submitted in two or more envelopes, all envelopes shall be 
opened at the public bid opening. 
(b) 
Bids shall be opened in public immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids. No bid shall be rejected during bid opening. The name of the bidder, 
the total amount of each bid, and any discounts shall be read aloud and recorded in the 
minutes of the public bid opening. Any discount not mentioned in the cover letter or bid 
form shall not be taken into account in the evaluation. 
(c) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point system or 
scoring on the basis of “technical and economical financial achievements” shall not be 
used. 
(d) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for a maximum of 
30 days. No further extensions should be requested without the prior approval of the 
Bank. 
(e) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
(f) 
No preference shall be applied under National Competitive Bidding.          
(g) 
There shall be no negotiations, even with the lowest evaluated bidder, 
without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(h) 
The results of evaluation and the names of the winning bidder shall be 
published. 
F.   
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
Page  25
-
24
-
G.   
Rejection of All Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior written concurrence. 
(b) 
When the number of bids received is less than two, re-bidding shall not 
be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
H. Securities
No advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable Advance 
Payment security. The wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding 
documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through RNCMNR, CFR, Metrorex, and MTCT: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable monitoring and 
evaluation on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, of 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 15, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
(c) 
carry out with the Bank by September 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request a mid-term review of the Project on the basis of the report referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of 
the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a timely manner; and (b) furnish to 
the Bank in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank adequate information on 
the carrying out of such measures.  
3. 
The Borrower, through MTCT, shall ensure that all land acquisition under Part A 
of the Project shall be undertaken in accordance with the Land Acquisition Framework. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a) and 
(4)(a)  set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of 
the Special Account for Part A of the Project; Categories (2)(b), (3)(b) and (4)(b) set forth 
in said table in respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project; and Category 
(3)(c) set forth in such table in respect of the Special Account for Part C of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $15,000,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, an amount equivalent to 
$7,500,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B thereof, and an amount of 
$200,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part C of the Project, to be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and deposited into the respective Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower, through 
RNCMNR, CFR and Metrorex, shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit 
into the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower, through 
RNCMNR, CFR and Metrorex shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the  
 
Borrower shall through RNCMNR, CFR and Metrorex furnish to  
the Bank requests for deposits into the respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
Page  28
-
27
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
through RNCNR, CFR and Metrorex furnish to the Bank the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall through RNCNR, CFR and 
Metrorex have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower through RNCNR, CFR and Metrorex 
out of the respective Special Account, the Borrower through RNCNR, CFR and Metrorex 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower through RNCNR, CFR and Metrorex 
directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower through RNCNR, CFR and Metrorex shall have failed to 
furnish to the Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account for any Part of the Project, minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for such Part of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  29
-
28
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for such Parts of the Project shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower, through RNCNR, CFR and Metrorex, shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank 
may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
through RNCNR, CFR and Metrorex has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
