                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001475




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-47570)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 225.0 MILLION


                                          TO

                                      ROMANIA

                                        FOR A

                    TRANSPORT RESTRUCTURING PROJECT



                                     June 28, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2010)
                      Currency Unit = New Romanian Lei (RON)
                               US$ 1.00 = RON 3.40

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BMS        Bridge Management System                     System
Calatori   Romania National Railway            IT       Information Technology
           Passenger Company                   Marfa    Romania National Railway
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                  Freight Operations Company
CESTRIN    Central Laboratory for              Metrorex SC METROREX SA
           Transport and Road                           (Bucharest Metro)
           Infrastructure                      MOT      Ministry of Transport
CFR        Romanian National Railway           MPF      Ministry of Public Finance
           (Infrastructure) Company            MTCT     Ministry of Transport,
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy                 Construction and Tourism
DPL        Development Policy Loan             MTR      Midterm Review
EBRD       European Bank for                   NPV      Net Present Value
           Reconstruction and                  PAD      Project Appraisal Document
           Development                         PAL      Programmatic Adjustment
EC         European Commission                          Lending
EIA        Environmental Impact                PDO      Project Development Objective
           Assessment                          PHARE    EU Fund for Assistance to
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of                    Central and Eastern European
           Return                                       Countries
EMP        Environmental Management            PMS      Pavement Management System
           Plan                                PMU      Project Management Unit
EU         European Union                      PSC      Public Service Contract
HDM        Highway Development and             PSO      Public Service Obligations
           Management System                   RNCMNR Romania National Company
ICR        Implementation Completion                    for Motorways and National
           Report                                       Roads
IFI        International Financial             TRP      Transport Restructuring Project
           Institutions                        TSSP     Transport Sector Support
IRIS       Integrated Railway Information               Project

                           Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou
                         Country Director:   Peter C. Harrold
                          Sector Manager:    Henry G. R. Kerali
                     Project Team Leader:    Mohammed Dalil Essakali
                        ICR Team Leader:     Mohammed Dalil Essakali
                                              ROMANIA
                                     Transport Restructuring Project



                                                    CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 34
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 40
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41

  MAP IBRD No. 37921
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Transport Restructuring
Country:                Romania                 Project Name:
                                                                         Project
Project ID:             P083620                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-47570
ICR Date:               06/28/2010              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                PUBLIC WORKS
                                                                         AND TRANSPORT
Original Total
                        USD 225.0M              Disbursed Amount:        USD 82.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 82.0M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 National Company for Motorways and National Roads (NAR)
 National Railway Infrastructure Company (CFR)
 S.C. METROREX S.A.
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/26/2003     Effectiveness:            07/28/2005        07/28/2005
Appraisal:            06/28/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/16/2004     Mid-term Review:          04/14/2008        09/29/2008
                                     Closing:                  07/31/2009        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory     Government:         Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                        Unsatisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                         Unsatisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Railways                                                             33                  33
Roads and highways                                                   67                  67


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                               17
Other urban development                                              17                  15
Pollution management and environmental health                        16
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                17                  5
Trade facilitation and market access                                 33                  80

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Peter C. Harrold                    Anand K. Seth
Sector Manager:            Henry G. R. Kerali                  Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:       Mohammed Dalil Essakali             Henry G. R. Kerali
ICR Team Leader:           Mohammed Dalil Essakali
ICR Primary Author:        Hernan Levy


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims to improve the efficiency of the railways and road sectors, and thereby
reduce the overall costs of transportation.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Reduction in traffic crashes in Romania (fatalities per 10,000 registered vehicles)
Value
                                          -7% (a target rate                -4.1% (a rate of
quantitative or 6.8
                                          of 6.3)                           6.5)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2005                  12/31/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved.
achievement)
                Railways Labor productivity (pkm and tkm per staff) x1,000 includes private
Indicator 2 :
                operators' pkm and tkm
Value
quantitative or 369                       470                               301
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2005                  12/31/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments        The PAD has a baseline of 310,000 TU/staff. The baseline ratio in the PAD
(incl. %        excludes freight handled by private operators and corresponds to 2003 traffic.
achievement) The monitoring of this indicator includes private operators' freight traffic.
Indicator 3 : Percentage of Road maintenance procured through competition
Value                                                                       Most periodic
quantitative or 0                         25 pilots                         maintenance is
Qualitative)                                                                outsourced
Date achieved 12/31/2005                  12/31/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
                Routine winter and summer maintenance is mostly done by force account.
(incl. %
                Periodic maintenance is mostly outsourced.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Reduction in traffic passing through cities
                                                                            No progress (by-
                                                                            pass component not
Value
                                                                            implemented),
quantitative or N/A                       N/A
                                                                            technical designs
Qualitative)
                                                                            prepared under the
                                                                            Project
Date achieved 12/31/2005                  12/31/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Complete independent managerial control at Marfa
Value           Public                    Done                              No Change



                                               iii
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2009                       11/30/2009
Comments
                  Despite its commercial status, the managerial independence from its owner (the
(incl. %
                  state) has not improved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Passenger Service PSC (US$ million per year)
Value
quantitative or   305                        332                              381
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2009                       11/30/2009
Comments
                  Achieved. The baseline of 305 corresponds to the actual values of 2005. The
(incl. %
                  PAD baseline refers to the situation prior to Board approval in November 2004.
achievement)
                  RNCMNR publishes Annual Report with details of its performance
Indicator 7 :
Value
                  Report with insufficient   Report with                      Report with
quantitative or
                  details                    indicators                       insufficient data
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2009                       11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Partially achieved
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Improved regulation of urban transport in large cities
Value                                                                         Draft Law to create
quantitative or   N/A                        Done                             Metropolitan
Qualitative)                                                                  Transport Authority
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Partially achieved
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Investment plans for improving Bucharest metro-rail urban transport system
Value
quantitative or   N/A                        Done                             Done
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. Investment plan developed and first phase under implementation.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                      Target Years
                  Method to allocate the road sector budget between road owners
Indicator 1 :



                                                   iv
Value
(quantitative     None                       Done                         None
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2009                   12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Not achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Maintenance standards established for road classes
                                                                          Done for county
Value
                                                                          roads under Rural
(quantitative   None                         Done for all roads
                                                                          Development
or Qualitative)
                                                                          Project
Date achieved 12/31/2005               12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %      Partially achieved.
achievement)
              Design-build contract awarded
Indicator 3 :
                                                                          0 (Design-build
Value                                                                     prepared under the
(quantitative   0                            >1                           Project for Medias
or Qualitative)                                                           by-pass and ready
                                                                          for tender)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2009                   12/31/2009
Comments
                  RNCMNR did start Design & Build contract under other road investment
(incl. %
                  programs.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     City by-passes built
Value                                                                     By-pass and road
(quantitative     0                          5                            safety components
or Qualitative)                                                           not implemented
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2009                   12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Not achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Road Traffic crashes in affected cities
Value                                                                     By-pass and road
(quantitative     % reduction                -3%                          safety components
or Qualitative)                                                           not implemented
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2009                   12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Bridges rehabilitated
                                                                          14 of the original
Value
                                                                          list & 70 under the
(quantitative   0                            16
                                                                          additional
or Qualitative)
                                                                          Emergency repair



                                                   v
                                                                            of flood-damaged
                                                                            bridges
Date achieved 12/31/2005                12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved considering the additional bridges.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Marfa prepared for privatization
                                                                            Government
                                                                            prepared own
Value                                                                       privatization study
(quantitative   N/A                        Marfa Private                    Global Financial
or Qualitative)                                                             Crisis negatively
                                                                            impacted
                                                                            privatization plans
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Not achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     ICT Utilization, IRIS mainstreaming
Value
                                           Railway Network                  Some progress
(quantitative     N/A
                                           interoperable                    made
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
                  Progress has been made to streamline ICT and IRIS utilization. However, the
Comments
                  Business Processes Redesign study was not completed. The study was aimed to
(incl. %
                  make recommendations whose implementation would have increase the
achievement)
                  productivity of CFR and Marfa.
Indicator 9 :     Maintenance, power supply and signaling equipment acquired
Value
                                                                            30% of program in
(quantitative     N/A                      100%
                                                                            value
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
                  Maintenance equipment partially acquired. Power supply and signaling
(incl. %
                  equipment subcomponent was not implemented.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Environmental Management
Value
                                                                            40% of component
(quantitative     N/A                      100%
                                                                            value
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
                  Equipment acquired. Environmental Management System study for CFR
(incl. %
                  completed.
achievement)




                                                vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                        IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    12/22/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/20/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    06/23/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     2.43
                                                   Moderately
  4    04/02/2007   Moderately Satisfactory                                       2.59
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                   Moderately
  5    01/09/2008   Moderately Satisfactory                                      23.32
                                                 Unsatisfactory
  6    05/05/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            34.64
  7    11/06/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            46.78
                                                   Moderately
  8    12/09/2008       Unsatisfactory                                           47.12
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                   Moderately
  9    04/08/2009       Unsatisfactory                                           54.68
                                                 Unsatisfactory
 10    10/09/2009       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                  73.12
 11    01/05/2010       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                  77.48


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of the appraisal of the Transport Restructuring Project (TRP) in June 2004, the
economy of Romania had been steadily growing at 5 ­ 6 percent per year for more than a decade.
Economic reforms were underway since the 1990s to transform the economic system from a
centrally planned economy to a free market model. The country aspired to join the European
Union (EU) in the first decade of the millennium. Integration with the EU required a range of
measures to be taken by Romania, including improving strategic transport links.

Romania's transport system, dominated by roads and railways, was largely inadequate to serve
the country's trade needs, or to provide good access to services and markets for its population of
23 million inhabitants. On the road side, there was insufficient capacity. Road density, with
respect both to population and land area, was among the lowest in Europe. Car ownership was
low, and it was expected to grow faster than the economy. Truck transport and intercity bus travel
were expected to grow at a high rate, gaining markets from railways, with trucking benefiting
from the restructuring of the economy. Roads were a constraint to the movement of goods and
people on two accounts: its small size and its poor condition, since 50 percent of the national road
network was reported to be in poor condition. In addition, road safety was poor, and it was
estimated that the gross cost of traffic crashes in Romania could be around 2 percent of GDP.

On the railway side, the problem was the opposite, with excess capacity that could only be
corrected by abandoning uneconomic railway lines. In 2003, rail transport constituted about 45
percent of all passenger and freight transportation in the country. Rail share of total transport had
steadily decreased over previous decades, for example, from 1960, when rail accounted for 80
percent of the freight and 70 percent of passenger traffic. As a consequence, the railway's
financial deficit rose, and the railways could not fund maintenance and investment in its assets.
Also, heavy losses were incurred because of overstaffing, outdated equipment, and outstanding
receipts of payments from many state-owned enterprises. As a result, the government launched in
1996 a railway reform program, which was jointly financed by the Bank, the EBRD, the EU and
the government. After some adjustments, the reform led to the division of the national railway
companies into three joint stock companies: infrastructure (CFR), freight (Marfa) and passenger
(Calatori), with the state as the sole shareholder in all three. A number of other reforms were
achieved by the end of 2003, in part supported by the Bank (Loan 3976). Despite these reforms,
passenger services required large subsidies, while freight services made a modest profit.

The Bank had actively supported the transport sector in Romania through investment operations
and advisory services for the 15 years preceding project appraisal. The most recent operations
included the Railway Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3976-RO) and the Second Roads Project (Loan
4178-RO). These two, and the previous transport projects, were successfully completed--with the
railway project rated as highly satisfactory--although in some cases after significant
implementation delays. The current project was therefore developed to consolidate the reforms in
the railways subsector and to improve the performance in the roads sector by removing some of
the critical bottlenecks caused by inadequate capacity of the national and rural road network, and
further build capacity for road administration and management.

The project was outside the 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that covered 2002 ­ 2004.
The next Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) was approved in 2006 covering the period 2005 ­
2009, and the TRP did fit with the CPS, which had three pillars: (a) accelerating structural and
institutional reforms to support sustainable growth; (b) addressing fiscal vulnerabilities and


                                                 1
modernizing the public sector; and (c) targeting poverty reduction and promoting social inclusion.
The TRP, with its emphasis on the reform of the railways and improvement of its financial
performance, and the improved management and efficiency of the road system, matched well
with pillars (a) and (b) of the CPS.

At the time of preparation of the TRP, the Bank was also preparing to launch a Programmatic
Adjustment Loan (PAL) series for Romania. The expectation was that the PAL program would
support the TRP reform objectives. At about the same time, the government was preparing to
meet European Union pre-accession conditions--with important policy and institutional targets
for transport under the Acquis Communautaires. These two factors--the PAL and the pre-
accession environment in Romania--were expected to be important contributors for the TRP to
meet its policy and institutional reform objectives.

About two year after approving the TRP, the Bank approved the Transport Sector Support Project
(TSSP) that provided further support for the improvement of roads and railways in Romania by
focusing mainly on the critical issue of infrastructure maintenance. The TSSP was implemented
in parallel to the TRP, and a separate Implementation Completion Report was prepared for this.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objectives of the project, as stated in the Loan Agreement, were to improve the efficiency of
the railways and roads sub-sectors, reducing the overall costs of transportation, improving road
safety, and reducing the negative impacts of traffic congestion and pollution in selected cities, and
to support the institutional development of Metrorex.

As detailed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), these objectives would be achieved
through the following outputs:
     i.   Rehabilitate, modernize and develop transport facilities to improve safety and mobility
          of all travelers. Relieving traffic congestion in or near cities is of the highest priority in
          order to improve traffic flow and preserve old historic cities.
    ii.   Restructure the administration of roads through reclassification of the road network and
          associated changes in the road management and financing. Increase efficiency of road
          works through privatization and development of the domestic construction industry.
   iii.   Complete restructuring of the state railway companies to improve productivity towards
          full cost recovery (counting Public Service Contracts--PSCs--as legitimate income
          rather than subsidy) and prepare the railways for open competition within the EU.
   iv.    Improve efficiency and effectiveness of urban transport planning and management, as
          well as the urban transport unit within the Ministry of Transport, Construction, and
          Tourism (MTCT).
    v.    Stimulate liberalization of the domestic transport market by privatizing service delivery
          for both railways and roads.
The key performance indicators identified in the PAD were:
    i.    Road traffic safety: reduce the number of fatalities per 100,000 vehicles.
   ii.    City by-passes' effectiveness: reduce through traffic volumes and air pollution and
          noise in the city's main streets.
  iii.    Road management effectiveness: review of functional classification and budget
          allocation methodology.
  iv.     Railway management effectiveness: full cost PSCs for passenger services, labor
          productivity and track maintenance costs.


                                                  2
   v.     Urban transport planning and management effectiveness: improve regulation of urban
          transport in large cities and investment plans for improving Bucharest metro-rail urban
          transport system.
  vi.     Private sector participation: percentage of road maintenance budget spent through
          competitive contracting.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDOs were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD does not explicitly identify the `primary target group'. However, the project objectives
and key indicators suggest that the main beneficiaries of the TRP would be the following:
 Users of transport services, through better and safer roads and more efficient rail services.
 Urban population, thanks to less pollution and congestion in the cities' main streets.
 The private sector, through expanded opportunities for participating in railway freight services
 and in the maintenance of the road network.
 At the highest level, citizens and taxpayers, thanks to better, more efficient and fiscally
 responsible management of public services in the transport sector, through the reforms in the
 railway and road sectors.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Road Sub-sector Components (estimated cost US277.7 million)

Institutional Development (estimated cost US$7.7 million). Technical cooperation and training
to improve efficiency of road maintenance and administration targeted at the Romania National
Company for Motorways and National Roads (RNCMNR), specifically (a) review and update
functional and administrative classification of the public road network, development of the
RNCMNR environmental policy and programs, and development of data services and analytical
capabilities in road management, (b) development of RNCMNR planning methods and
capabilities, (c) review and diagnosis of RNCMNR technical specifications and technical
documents, (d) harmonization of RNCMNR technical standards with those of the EU, (e)
carrying out a road user charges study. Also included are consultancies for engineering design,
training in project management and modernization of RCNMNR computer systems.

Road Safety Improvements (estimated cost US$7.9 million). Raise public awareness of safety,
support implementation and application of a road traffic crash database, finance a `Linear
Village' traffic safety pilot project and corrective measures at road sections with high traffic crash
rates (black spots).

Construction of By-passes (estimated cost US$222.5 million). By-passes for five cities: Bacau,
Brasov, Reghin, Medias and Targy Mures. The aim is to relieve congestion, environmental
pollution and reduce travel costs for traffic traveling through key cities experiencing major
bottlenecks for both passenger and freight transport.

Supervision of Civil Works During Construction (estimated cost US$12.7 million). Consulting
services to ensure quality of civil works during construction.


                                                  3
Bridge Rehabilitation (estimated cost US$13.9 million). Repairs or replacement of selected
bridges that are in critical condition.

Other (estimated cost US$13.0 million). Land acquisition, annual financial audits, permits,
contingencies.

Component 2: Railway Sub-sector Components (estimated cost US$ 99 million)

Technical Cooperation and Training (estimated cost US$13.6 million). Activities to further
consolidate the reforms achieved in the railways under the previous Bank loan. The component
comprises: (i) management training and development to assist the railways adopt
commercialization/private sector practices and to institutionalize railway management training,
(ii) Business Process Redesign, comprising three consultancies, that include software and
hardware components, cover freight marketing, training operations for CFR and infrastructure
maintenance and management, (iii) survey and analysis of market demand for passenger services,
to help Calatori update its 5-year plan, (iv) training to the project management unit (PMU) and
railway management staff.

Completion of the IRIS Hardware and Communications Network (estimated cost US$7.2
million). Completion of the National Data Transmission Network, launched under the previous
Bank project, to facilitate implementation of the IRIS in all the railway units.

Infrastructure Maintenance, Power Supply and Signaling Equipment (estimated cost US$75.9
million). Purchase of various equipment for track maintenance, and for the modernization of
power supply and signaling at selected railway stations and segments.

Systems for Quality and Environmental Management (estimated cost US$1.2 million).
Purchase of equipment and systems for monitoring emissions, metrological measurements, and
environmental management.

Other (estimated cost US$1.1 million). Annual financial audits, contingencies and unallocated.

Component 3: Urban Transport Component (estimated cost US$1.2 million)

Institutional Development. Technical assistance to support institutional development for MTCT
and Metrorex, consisting of: (i) organizational development of the urban planning and
management unit within MTCT, and the establishment of the Bucharest Metropolitan Transport
Authority, (ii) reorganization of the Metrorex institutional structure to improve efficiency and
effectiveness, (iii) feasibility study for the extensions to the Metrorex commuter services within
Bucharest metropolitan districts, and (iv) provision of consultant services for audit of the project
accounts during project implementation.

1.6 Revised Components

Reallocation of loan funds to finance emergency repairs to infrastructure. At the government's
request--dated June 10, 2005 a little more than a month before loan effectiveness--the Bank
agreed to allocate 10 percent of loan proceeds for emergency repairs to road bridges damaged by
major floods that occurred in the spring of 2005. Similar agreements were reached between the
government and other international financing institutions (IFIs) that had ongoing road projects in
Romania. In the government's request to the Bank, it was estimated that US$22.5 million would
be required from the loan--US$37.5 million including government contribution--to repair the


                                                 4
most urgent bridges put forward for Bank financing. Considering the bridge rehabilitation
subcomponent originally included in project and estimated at US$13.9 million, the total
allocation for bridges was estimated to reach US$51.4 million. The reallocation was agreed on the
basis that the government would later request additional financing in order for the project to have
enough funds to finance the construction of the five city by-passes included in the project. The
project indicators were not formally revised to reflect the addition of the emergency repairs of
flood-damaged bridges.

Dropping of road user charges study. This study was dropped from the project because of an
ongoing (at the time) EU PHARE funded study with approximately the same objectives as the
TRP-funded study. It was agreed with the government that the Bank would be able to comment
on the PHARE study prior to its completion. The Bank's PAL program was to support the policy
recommendations of such a study.

1.7 Other significant changes

Closing date. The closing date was extended from the original July 31, 2009 to December 31,
2009, in order to allow the completion of several subcomponents that were under implementation
at the time the government and the Bank came to a mutual conclusion that a longer extension was
not possible under the circumstances in Romania in early 2009 (see section 2.2, MTR).

Loan cancellation. US$120 million were canceled from the loan, corresponding mostly to the by-
pass subcomponent and several railway equipment and systems subcomponents that could not be
procured within the new closing date.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation

The TRP was prepared jointly with the supervision of the then ongoing Second Roads Project,
and occasionally with the Railway Rehabilitation Project. Preparation benefited from experience
over 15 years in Bank-supported transport projects in Romania. The initial project concept called
for a US$100 million loan, with funds divided about one third for the railways and two thirds for
the roads. The loan amount was increased to US$225 million as the Bank found a strong
government commitment in 2003/2004 to implement policy reforms. Submission of audited
accounts for 2003 for both RNCMNR and CFR, were conditions of negotiations.

Design

The design of the project took into account lessons learned from two previous Bank projects, the
Railway Restructuring Project (Loan 3976-RO) and the Second Roads Project (Loan 4178-RO).
The key lessons from these projects taken into account in the design of the TRP were: (i) projects
with several components should not be planned to the last detail, it should be sufficient to define
the goals, objectives and targets to be achieved during implementation, and (ii) the Romanian
implementing agencies are competent in procuring civil works and equipment, and technical
cooperation is desirable to support improvement of management systems and procedures,
including training of management and staff, and for updating standards and regulations. With
retrospect, these lessons proved not to be applicable to the TRP. The TRP, because of its strong



                                                5
emphasis on institutional development, and a physical component--the city by-passes--that
required difficult coordination between the road agency and city governments, was overly
complex. This, combined with the application of the wrong lessons, led to weak quality at entry
and the project not being ready for implementation (see Sections 5.1a and 5.2b).

Consideration of alternative project design regarding the bypass construction included continuing
the rehabilitation of existing roads. This was rejected because it would not contribute to solving
the traffic, road safety, and direct land access control problems in and near the cities--which
were top government priorities. Similarly, in the railways, rehabilitation of infrastructure was
considered but rejected in favor of enabling continued infrastructure maintenance and
rehabilitation using own funds and promoting good railway services to customers.

There was no Quality at Entry rating by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group for this project.

Risks

The following were the risks identified and the mitigation measures considered:
 Insufficient budget for passenger railways PSC: reduce passenger service, surveillance of
   budget discipline and Bank loan conditions.
 Insufficient budget for RNCMNR road maintenance: increase road user charges, supported
   by observance of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and Bank loan conditions.
 Marfa loses traffic to private operators: reduce Marfa service.
 Resistance to institutional restructuring: issue to be raised with government in the context
   of the Bank's Programmatic Adjustment Lending (PAL) operation.
 Insufficient counterpart funding: advance assurance from government and quarterly joint
   reviews with the Ministry of Public Finance (MPF).
2.2 Implementation

Project implementation was hampered by a number of factors, which led to changes in the
components and major delays, which in turn had an impact on completing the project. The project
was considered to be a problem project at various times. Key issues during implementation are
discussed below. Some of these issues also affected implementation of the parallel Transport
Sector Support Project, since both projects were under the same implementing agencies and were
similarly affected by government policies and management.
Flood Damages to Transport Infrastructure. A few months after the project was approved by
the Bank, major floods throughout Romania in the spring of 2005 resulted in major damages to
roads, bridges and rail infrastructure. At the government's request--received in June 2005 a little
more than a month before effectiveness--project funding for bridge rehabilitation included under
the project was substantially increased in order to carry our emergency repairs to the most critical
road bridges. While the original project included rehabilitation works on 16 bridges, an additional
set of 70 bridges were added for post-flood repairs under the project. A similar agreement was
reached between the government and other IFIs to include repair works of flood-damaged bridges
in other ongoing road projects.
Counterpart funding. Provision of counterpart funding was hindered at various times during
implementation. At the start of the project, a requirement from the IMF demanded to reduce
disbursements from all external financing by 20 percent in 2005. Towards the end of the project,
the government's own budget ceiling for 2008 reduced the funding allocated for the project by




                                                 6
about two thirds, from US$22.9 million to US$7.4 m for the road component, and from US$68
million to US$21 million for the rail component.
Effectiveness delay. It took more than 8 months until the loan was declared effective after being
approved by the Bank.1 The main reason for the delay was the time it took the government to
complete the subsidiary loan and project agreements for the three implementing agencies (CFR,
RNCMNR and Metrorex) and for each implementing agency to provide the Bank with official
legal opinion on those agreements.
Institutional reforms. Progress was slow throughout implementation. Recent Bank assessments2
of reforms in Romania suggest that the government appeared to have lost its incentives for
pursuing reforms--including those under the project--once it became a member of the European
Union.
Implementation delays. Adjusting the project to include the bridge emergency repairs and the
problems with project funding created delays. But there were other factors that caused major
delays, especially:
     Frequent changes in top management of RNCMNR and CFR, staff turnovers and staff
        shortages seriously impacted implementation of the project components.
     The above changes--especially those of top management--resulted in declining support
        and implementation capacity for the road institutional components, which started late and
        slowly. For example, agreement to launch two important road policy studies was only
        reached during a supervision mission in April 2008, that is, some three years after the
        project had been declared effective.
     The dismantling of the PMU that had worked well under previous projects, and whose
        competence the Bank relied upon during project preparation, leading to different units of
        the RNCMNR and the CFR managing different parts of the project (until late in the
        project­2008­when a CFR PMU was revamped).
     The procurement process of road components was slow due to RNCMNR staff being
        involved in several bid evaluations simultaneously and time lost in nominating and
        convening evaluation committees. This process improved through the introduction of
        `project directorates', hiring of more staff and consultants, and increase in salary for
        project staff.
     Construction of by-passes--the project's largest component accounting for 59 percent of
        the original project cost--suffered major delays, and ultimately was not carried out, due
        to very frequent political and managerial changes both nationally and in the affected
        cities, large increases in traffic due to GDP growth, urbanization and car ownership
        requiring redesign of some by-passes, change in by-passes priorities and the Bank
        approval procedures.
     The testing of the `design-build' approach in one of the by-passes, Brasov originally,
        later changed to Medias, proved to be especially challenging from a procurement point of
        view, and it took the Bank and RNCMNR several rounds of revisions until an acceptable
        bidding document was arrived at.
     In an attempt to address the implementation delays--that also affected projects financed
        by other IFIs--the Bank facilitated the establishment of a Steering Committee including
        representatives of the government, IFIs and the European Commission (EC).


1
  Similar delays in effectiveness had occurred in the previous two projects, the Second Road Project and the
Railway Rehabilitation Project.
2
  See Country Partnership Strategy (Bank report No. 48665-RO June 2009), and PAL Implementation
Completion Report (Bank report No. ICR0000620 June 2008).


                                                     7
         Implementation significantly improved since early 2008, except for actions that required
         policy decisions.
         The volatile investment strategies and the absence of any master framework for Transport
         or the Medium Term Expenditures Framework (MTEF) that could have provided
         predictability in the allocation of funding for project components.
    Mid-Term Review (MTR). A joint MTR for the TRP and the TSSP was carried out in
    September ­ October 2008. The MTR concluded that the TRP was unlikely to meet its
    development objectives by the original closing date of July 31, 2009, due to significant delays
    in the implementation of the physical and institutional components, by continuous changes in
    personnel in the road and railway companies, and by frequent political changes in the
    Ministry of Transport. The MTR report analyzed in detail the status and potential for
    achievement of each of the project objectives. For some of the objectives, an additional two
    years beyond the original closing dates would have been required for components supporting
    those objectives to be completed.
    The MTR report noted that given the acceleration of the implementation pace during 2008,
    substantial impacts could still be achieved under the project if government commitment
    towards the project were reconfirmed, adjustment made to some of the targets, and a time
    extension provided for project implementation. The MTR expected that soon after the general
    elections in late 2008, the Bank and the new government would discuss and agree on the
    following steps and the future of the project, including the option of project restructuring in
    early 2009.
    No Project Restructuring. Despite the conclusions of the MTR, the project was not
    restructured, and the targets were not modified. In the face of the state of dialogue between
    the Bank and Romania in early 2009, the impact of the global financial crisis on Romania,
    and the lack of agreement between the Bank and the government on the project's reform
    component, a large portion of the loan was canceled and the loan closing date was extended
    by five months to allow the completion of ongoing contracts and bring the project to an
    orderly closure.
    Project Cost. Inflation, in US dollars, due to delays, appreciation of the Euro and the
    Romanian RON versus the dollar, plus redesign of the Brasov bypass making it a four-lane
    expressway standard and almost doubling its estimated cost from EUR 48 million to EUR
    75.6 million, made the project cost to exceed substantially the original PAD estimate of
    US$377.9 million. In any case, due to implementation delays leading to the cancelation of
    several components that could not be completed within the project closing date, project cost
    at closing was US$104 million or 27 percent of the original estimate.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design
The PAD's results framework comprised a list of outcome indicators and of intermediate results,
for monitoring progress and outcomes, divided into six areas. The design included separate,
specific indicators for the project road, rail and urban transport sub-objectives, and covered
physical as well as institutional results. The indicators were simple to collect. Baselines were
established for each indicator, with the exception of reduction of traffic passing through cities that
was to be determined during implementation. There were however some inconsistencies between
the PAD's main text and annexes regarding the definition of some outcome indicators.

Responsibility for data collection was split in accordance with the respective subsector, and
involved RNCMNR, CFR, Marfa, Calatori, and MOT. Most of the indicators were to be reported


                                                  8
annually, the exception being the reduction in traffic passing through cities, reported bi-annually,
and the achievement of independent control at Marfa, reported to the supervision missions.
Implementation and Utilization
The performance indicators were monitored periodically, and reported in the Aide-Memoires of
the supervision missions. The indicators were used both by the government transport agencies
and the Bank to monitor performance and to propose remedial actions when needed.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environmental safeguards
The road by-pass component was the main project activity that was expected to have significant
environmental impacts. This component fell under Category A for the purpose of OP/BP 4.01
Environmental Assessment. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) developed during
project preparation was adequate and Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) were prepared
as part of the EIA report. The physical implementation of the by-passes component did not
materialize. During the preparation of the detailed designs for the by-passes, the EIAs were
updated to reflect changes in some design parameters such as road alignments. The revised EIAs
were duly reviewed and approved by the Bank. In addition, the EMPs were used for the contracts
for the bridge rehabilitation component. It should be noted that the emergency bridge
rehabilitation component has significant positive environmental impacts including hydrological
works and the rehabilitation of river beds.

Social safeguards
The by-passes component required land acquisition. A Land Acquisition Policy Framework was
prepared by RNCMNR and approved by the Bank during project preparation, which clarified
steps and procedures in the land acquisition process. The detail designs were prepared for the by-
passes, however no land acquisition took place because the component was not implemented due
to the partial cancelation of the loan.

Financial Management
The Loan Agreement required project audits as well as entity audits of RNCMNR and CFR.
There were some delays in submitting the entity audit reports by the annual deadline of June 30,
triggering a Bank warning for loan suspension in 2007 that was lifted after the overdue entity
audit reports were received by the Bank. The audits for 2004 were the first audits of RNCMNR in
its new legal form as a joint stock company. Although RNCMNR's annual audits have been
received and they have been found satisfactory to the Bank, the entity audits were qualified
because of the significance of valuation of RNCMNR's concession rights, impairment of asset,
and because of emphasis of matter on the going concern issue. The qualified auditors' opinion
raises the questions of the suitability of RNCMNR's legal status as a joint-stock company and the
broader issue of long term road sector funding.

Procurement
Procurement arrangements were well defined. However, there were significant delays in having
procurement procedures started in the first 2 ­ 3 years of project life due mainly to: (i) turnover of
project implementing entity staff; (ii) delays in preparation of terms of reference for key
consultancies such as design and supervision or railway business processes redesign (in this case
the project involved three different independent companies, only one, CFR being part of the loan.
CFR has no authority over the other two); (iii) cumbersome organization of bid evaluation
committees; (iv) considerable delay in Bank's decision on the form and details of the design &


                                                  9
build procurement document--a non-standard procurement method--for one of the by-passes;
and (v) the time it took CFR and the Bank to make decisions on key railway packages such as the
supply and installation of traction power substations.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Maintenance and operation of the physical investments under the project are the responsibility of
the respective implementing agencies. RNCMNR will maintain the bridges with funding from its
budget and similarly CFR is expected to maintain the project-financed equipment and IT systems.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
A Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) prepared by the Bank's Independent Evaluation Group
in 2005 found that the Bank's overall strategy for Romania, allocating 60 percent of its
commitment during the CAE review period (1989-2004) for private sector development and
supporting infrastructure, correctly reflected the important role that the private sector must play
for generating growth and reducing poverty. The TRP was an important component of this
strategy, and did fit well within the 2006 CPS, as noted in Section 1 of this ICR.

The current CPS--approved by the Bank in July 2009 in the midst of the global economic and
financial crisis and covering the period July 2009 ­ June 2013--noted that the new government
faced the difficult task of reconciling short-term fiscal consolidation with the need to mitigate the
social costs of the crisis and restore the sources of sustainable and equitable growth. The
government had put in place a program aimed to address the situation. According to the CPS, the
World Bank Group will complement and support this program by (i) helping the government to
implement structural reforms to help mitigate the crisis by reducing social and economic
vulnerabilities and (ii) putting in place the basis for sustainable economic growth in the medium-
term. The TRP, with its emphasis on economic reforms in the road and rail sectors, and the
financing of infrastructure essential to support private sector activities, would--had its objectives
been achieved--have made an important contribution to the government program and the current
CPS. During the preparation of the CPS, the government and the Bank were in agreement that the
TRP objectives remained very relevant, but the poor performance of the project had already, by
then, led the government and the Bank to agree that it should not be extended.

The project's institutional and physical components were key sector priorities. Regarding the road
sector, the institutional subcomponent had a wide focus, aimed at restructuring the road
administration through reclassification of the road network, and at effecting changes to improve
road management and financing and increase the efficiency of works through privatization and
development of the road construction industry. The physical component, focusing on works to
improve safety and mobility and on relieving traffic congestion in or near cities to improve traffic
flows and preserve old historic cities, addressed very important investment priorities. Regarding
railways, restructuring the state railways to improve productivity and prepare the railway sector
for open competition within the EU was a clear and important priority. At the same time,
providing equipment to improve railway infrastructure maintenance and completing and
expanding the railways communications and data transmission to facilitate implementation of the
integrated railway information system (IRIS) in all of the railway service units, were also well
established priorities. A small urban transport component provided technical assistance to support
institutional development of capacity for planning and managing urban passenger transport, with



                                                 10
a view to improving efficiency and effectiveness of the metro-rail urban transport operator in
Bucharest (Metrorex) was very relevant given the transport issues facing the city of Bucharest.

Successful reforms in previous Bank-supported transport projects appeared to bode well for the
proposed TRP reforms. However, the earlier reforms were "first generation" reforms during
Romania's economic transition years, and although they were very important they were generally
less difficult to carry out. For example, a significant staff reduction in the railways prior to TRP
was accomplished partly by disposing of subsidiaries that were not a core railway business and by
attractive retirement packages to an aging work force at that time. But once such initial reforms
were completed, it fell to the TRP to support "second generation" and more complicated reforms,
such as the redesign of railway business processes or the revision of the road user charges system.

The TRP was a high reward, high risk project. The substantial institutional and reform objectives
for the road and rail sectors made it--as most projects of this nature--potentially risky. A strong
government support during project preparation and appraisal for the project objectives, and the
significant benefits that it would yield in terms of a more efficient transport system--especially
important given the need for Romania to close the gap with EU standards--justified going ahead
with it. Yet, the serious reform agenda of the TRP may have been difficult to achieve under a
Specific Investment Loan (SIL) instrument, the implementation time may have been too short,
and the EU accession, once realized, could have dampened government's support for reform.
There were also substantial risks with the project's main physical components, which, in
retrospect, appeared as not being ready for implementation.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project intended to improve the efficiency of the railways and roads sub-sectors, reducing the
overall costs of transportation, improving road safety, and reducing the negative impacts of traffic
congestion and pollution in selected cities, and to support the institutional development of
Metrorex. 3

Attaining the outputs necessary for the project to meet its objectives was impacted by significant
implementation delays of both physical and institutional components, reflecting a loss of reform
momentum in Romania once EU accession was secured--as suggested by several recent Bank
assessments4--and frequent political and management changes in the Ministry of Transport and
in the roads and railways companies. As a result, only part of the objectives were achieved by the
revised closing date.

The completion of the project outputs is assessed as follows.
    A. Road Sector: (i) Modernize, improve safety, relieve traffic congestion,
       (ii) Restructure agency, increase efficiency of road works
A1. Rehabilitate, modernize and develop transport facilities to improve safety and mobility of all
travelers. Relieve traffic congestion in or near old historic cities.

Overall, this was not achieved. The project's main physical output, the by-pass construction
program--by far the project's largest component--was not carried out. As a result, the expected


3
  Objectives as per the Loan Agreement. This wording is more detailed that the project objective described
in the PAD.
4
  See Country Partnership Strategy (Bank report No. 48665-RO June 2009), and PAL Implementation
Completion Report (Bank report No. ICR0000620 June 2008).


                                                   11
reduction in traffic congestion and pollution in the selected cities did not happen. Design of the
by-passes suffered major delays, and it was only in 2009 that the designs were completed. While
initial stages of procurement of the by-passes were launched, they were halted once it became
clear that the works could not be completed within the revised closing date. Furthermore, the
detailed engineering designs showed that the cost of the five project by-passes had increased from
the original estimate of EUR 178 million to EUR 406 million, meaning that less than half of the
bypass component could have be financed within the project.

The bridge rehabilitation program and the emergency repairs to flood-damaged bridges were
carried out as expected and will generate a positive impact. The emergency repairs sub-
component was added in response to the government's request addressed in June 2005 to IFIs that
were actively financing road projects to reallocate a portion of ongoing loans to repair a
significant number of bridges that were damaged by severe floods that year. The implementation
of the bridge repair works has had significant positive environmental impact thanks to the
hydrological works that were done on the river beds.

The project's road safety activities were not carried out. The road safety component was initially
put on hold because RNCMNR decided to include it in another EU-funded road program. In late
2008, RNCMNR reversed its position, and announced its intention to carry out the component
under the TRP. In practice, however, no action was taken. As a result, road safety outcomes have
not materially improved since 2004.

A2. Restructure the administration of roads through reclassification of the road network and
associated changes in the road management and financing. Increase efficiency of road works
through privatization and development of the domestic construction industry.

This was not achieved. Frequent changes in the management of RNCMNR--seven general
managers during TRP implementation 5 --led to weak ownership of the proposed institutional
improvements. The intended road reclassification, which was expected to be the basis for
restructuring the administration of the road system, was started, but not completed. The Pavement
Management System study under the project was completed. The HDM-4, the updated software
for the PMS, was installed, with financing from other IFIs, and training was provided under the
TRP. Overall, the Pavement Management System has been improved, although less than expected.
While the PMS is being streamlined in RNCMNR through its research arm CESTRIN, progress is
slow due to weak support and limited resources allocated by RNCMNR's upper management.
There was an early decision that the Road User Charge study should be undertaken under EU pre-
accession PHARE program, and supported by the Bank's Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL).
However, the PHARE-supported study was unsatisfactory because of the limited capacity of the
consulting firm that carried out this study. While an improved draft was produced following Bank
comments, it was still inadequate as a basis to restructure the user charges.

During implementation, the problems with the implementation capacity of the RNCMNR,
especially with regard to the use of EU and IFI funds became increasingly evident, and improving
such capacity became a top priority for the agency and key stakeholders. Support from the Bank
supervision team and representatives of the EU and other IFIs led to a reorganization of
RNCMNR's project directorates in 2007. This resulted in an improvement of RNCMNR's




5
    RNCMNR's general managers were changed seven times between project preparation and its completion.


                                                  12
implementation capacity. These improvements were too late in the project's life to have
meaningful results on project implementation performance.

Also during implementation, a study was included under the project to provide immediate
assistance to RNCMNR management on institutional development issues. However, the
RNCMNR had five different general managers since the decision to launch the study until project
closing. As a result, only an initial phase of the study was carried out, and its recommendations
were not implemented.

In conclusion, RNCMNR's lack of managerial autonomy, continuous changes in its top
executives, and inadequate financing arrangements, were--and will continue to be--key factors
blocking progress with fundamental institutional reforms it urgently needs.
    B. Railway Sector: Complete restructuring of state railway companies and prepare
       railways for competition within the EU
This was not achieved. This objective was to be attained through technical assistance to the
railway companies, and through the modernization of CFR's equipment and installations. These
project activities were expected to lead to gradual, though modest, improvements in operations
and reduce operating costs. Progress has been made in the two areas, but only in the last two
years, and not enough to complete the expected outputs. There were positive outcomes relating to
the management training program, the results of the survey of passenger market demand, and the
triggering of the first steps in the business processes redesign of railways. Provision of equipment
to maintain and improve the track (such as ballast cleaning and profiling machines) that arrived in
2008 will help make track operations more efficient. However, other equipment or systems, such
as traction power substations or the electronic interlocking pilot, were not procured. Due to
significant implementation delays, and the non-procurement of some equipment--in part because
of an increase in cost estimates due to inflation and the devaluation of the US dollar--tangible
benefits have not yet been felt. This is unfortunate since those benefits could have helped arrest
the deterioration of railway services and improve the financial position of railway operators
through cost reductions. This would have been valuable at a time when the global economic crisis
further endangered the finances of such companies.

Whether the results of the studies and technical assistance would lead to material improvement on
the performance of the railway sector in Romania, however, remains uncertain. The government
did prepare a strategy to privatize Marfa, which until 2008 was financially profitable and a good
candidate for privatization. However, the economic crisis had a severe impact on Marfa's
finances, and this delayed implementing the strategy.

The progress on the technical assistance (Business Processes Redesign, Passenger Demand, and
Management Development) was the result of the effort of highly qualified Romanian railway
staff, and happened despite the lack of support at the political and top management levels6. Such
progress is, however, an indication that completing the restructuring of state railway companies
and preparing the railways for competition within the EU could be achieved if there is a strong
political commitment at the highest levels in Romania.




6
  Similar to RNCMNR, CFR's general managers were changed at least six times during project
implementation.


                                                13
    C. Urban Transport: Improve efficiency of planning and management

This was achieved. Technical assistance provided to Metrorex (i) helped draft a law for the
establishment of the Bucharest Metropolitan Transport Authority, (ii) assisted Metrorex to
identify and implement critical actions to improve its internal efficiency as well as its marketing
strategy, and (iii) helped Metrorex and the government develop an investment plan for public
transport in Bucharest through a study successfully completed. The government expects to enact
the Metropolitan Transport Authority law in 2010, which would radically improve the
coordination of urban transport in Bucharest. Furthermore, based on the results of the investment
plan, Metrorex has secured financing for priority metro extensions in Bucharest.

    D. Transport Market: Stimulate liberalization, privatize service delivery.

This was achieved, but the role of the project is not clear. Private railway operators now carry
over 50 percent of freight in Romania, compared to 11 percent in 2004. Thus, while the
government has been slow in continuing the restructuring of railways, it has kept open the door
for the development of private rail freight operators. On the road side, trucking services continue
to be fully provided by the private sector. On the supply of construction services for roads and
railways, the role of the project is not clear either, but new construction is now exclusively done
by private contractors. Road periodic maintenance and railway renewals are mostly done by the
private sector. Routine maintenance is still being done mainly by force account.

3.3 Efficiency

The ICR economic re-evaluation focuses on the largest physical components that were effectively
implemented: (i) emergency repairs of the flood-damaged bridges (not included in the original
design of the project); and (ii) railway maintenance equipment.

Bridges. A total of 70 bridges were rehabilitated in different regions. For the economic analysis,
these bridges were divided into three different categories depending on the level of traffic.
RNCMNR estimated that if no repairs had been done all the bridges would have been out of
service by end of 2010 causing serious traffic congestions and detours of 80 km in average from
the standard route. The main benefits included in the analysis are the improvement in
accessibility and time savings.

Railway maintenance equipment. After the partial cancelation of the loan, the maintenance
equipment became the major railway subcomponent. There are three types of equipment that have
the largest impact under the project: (i) ballast profiling machines; (ii) ballast cleaning machine;
and (iii) equipment for mechanized repair, welding and hard-facing of worn rails and fogs. The
economic analysis focuses on these three types of equipment and the benefits brought to the CFR.

Based on the calculations in Annex 3, the economic re-evaluation estimates that the economic
internal rate of return (EIRR) is 27 percent for the road component and 17 percent for the
railways component.

On the institutional side, there were inefficiencies in the use of resources where studies were
carried out, or other technical assistance provided, but recommendations were not implemented.
As a result, there were no practical gains in efficiency that could have been achieved if more
progress had been made in restructuring the organization and management of roads and railways.




                                                14
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory. While the project objectives were and remain relevant, and the project-
financed investments had satisfactory returns, overall project objectives were not achieved as
only a small part of the project components and activities were carried out. This includes the
project's main physical component, the city by-passes, whose implementation was nil, and the
institutional reforms, which were minimally achieved.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The emergency bridge repairs had an important positive impact on the population throughout the
country that had remained isolated, or exposed to unsafe transport access, from important social
services as a result of the flood-damaged bridges.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project's most significant institutional impact is the study and recommendations for the
creation of a Bucharest Metropolitan Transport Authority, which appears to have a strong
government support and likely to be implemented after loan closing.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The bridge works are estimated to have created some 1,400 jobs by the construction activities
during the period between 2006 and 2009. This was even more important in 2008 and 2009 given
the severe impact of the global financial crisis on Romania and on employment in particular.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
This is a Core ICR and does not require Beneficiary Survey or Stakeholder Workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial. The limited outcomes of the project are subject to substantial risk. In both
the road and the railway sectors, the risk stems from a precarious institutional set up and
inadequate funding of the sector agencies, with the likely effect that funding for the operations
and maintenance of the investments made under the project may be inadequate. This risk
threatens the two sectors' investments, although it is bigger for railways, because CFR depends
mainly on revenues from track access charges--severely impacted by the financial crisis--to
fund maintenance and little or no budgetary resources are allocated to complement these revenues.
While most of the road bridges improved under the project are unlikely to need major
maintenance in the near future, some routine maintenance will be required, and significant
maintenance or rehabilitation will be required if emergencies happen, such as new floods.
Funding for road maintenance has increased in recent years--in part thanks to the parallel Bank-
supported Transport Sector Support Project. However, the RNCMNR's predictable funding is
limited to revenues generated by a vignette (a time-based road user fee for using the national road
network), which represent between 10 and 20 of RNCMNR's total annual outlays. Insufficient
budgetary allocations for the RNCMNR have happened in the past, as noted in the PAD.

On the institutional side, the little progress made on roads and railways is unlikely to be reversed,
and progress on urban transport is likely to be further advanced once the Metropolitan Transport
Authority is created.



                                                 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory.

The Bank prepared an important project, with well selected objectives and supported by
appropriate physical and institutional components. The intended transport sector reforms were
essential to improve the performance of the sector, and bring its efficiency and quality of service
closer to the countries of Western Europe. The objectives of the TRP remain very relevant today.
The PAD was especially articulate regarding the analysis of railway reform and financial
performance, and the policy actions required to carry out an effective reform.

In line with lessons from past projects, the TRP design avoided going into much detail, but
focused on the goals, objectives and targets to be achieved. This was exemplified by the
description of the bridge rehabilitation component, where the individual bridges were not
identified in the PAD. Those bridges were listed in a study carried out under the preceding
Second Roads Project. However, the long delays in preparing the city by-passes for procurement,
and the fact than none could be implemented under the project, suggest that while the focus on
goals and targets was correct, this should have been accompanied by a sharper attention to the
readiness for implementation, especially the by-passes, which were the largest project component.

Differences of views and conflicts regarding the by-passes' design between the road agency and
the city governments, as they actually happened, should have been anticipated and actions taken
to ensure that they were resolved before approving the loan. Readiness of preparation should have
also considered that once the designs were finally agreed, the next step was land acquisition,
which under legislation prevailing in Romania at the time was a time-consuming process. Testing
of the `design-build' concept in one of the by-passes was a worthwhile idea, since this approach
can lead to substantial gains in efficiency and in the transfer of risk from the client to the
contractor. However, the long delays experienced in developing an acceptable bid document for
the pilot suggested that testing this approach was likely going to be a complex undertaking.

One of the risks assessed at appraisal was government resistance to institutional restructuring of
the transport sector. This risk was expected to be mitigated by the Bank's Programmatic
Adjustment Loans (PAL). However, such support did not happen, and the fact that the PAL
program was halted after PAL-1 may explain why the expected support did not materialize.7

The information included in the PAD regarding the economic analysis is weak, since it does not
include estimates of the economic return for the road bridge and rail track maintenance
component. Also, the information provided on the return of the by-passes, while good on the cost
side and the estimated values of the economic return of the individual by-passes, does not include
an analysis of the investment benefits.




7
 The ICR (June 2008) of the First Programmatic Adjustment Loan shows that support for the restructuring
of the railways and of modernization of the administration and management of the roads was expected to be
provided under the PAL3 operation. However, the PAL program was halted after the PAL1 operation when
Romania joined the EU.


                                                   16
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Supervision missions were frequent, at least twice a year. The missions were composed of
experienced staff and consultants, covering a variety of disciplines, and this illustrates the clear
understanding of the complexity of project supervision by the Bank team and management. For
example, experienced staff and consultants were exclusively dedicated to follow on the
implementation of the complex railway studies and subcomponents, as well as the railways'
financial situation. Overall there was good continuity of Bank staff and consultants. Bank
supervision was proactive as illustrated by the early decision to positively respond to the
government's request to include the emergency repair of the bridges damaged by the 2005 floods.
The supervision missions, especially in the last 2 ­ 3 years of implementation, made substantial
efforts to expedite implementation and to help the project achieve its objectives. Critical
implementation issues that the missions addressed and recommended actions included
(i) preoccupation with staff of the implementing agencies, their salaries and the resignation of
important staff. The missions offered to finance or to provide training to build skills for staff
performing critical tasks, such as procurement and disbursement, and to finance local consultants
to be inserted in the implementing agencies to fill critical positions, (ii) making it a condition for
the MTR a prior agreement by the government to provide additional financing to complete the
project, or, alternatively, to reduce project scope by taking-off the project some of the by-passes,
(iii) providing detailed recommendations to improve the financial standing of the railways;
(iv) making substantial comments and recommendations with regards the different studies
covering Business Process Redesign of Railways, Railway Passenger Services, Metropolitan
Transport Authority, and other urban transport activities.

The Bank supervision missions also took the initiative to propose the establishment of a Steering
Committee that turned out to be a useful way to coordinate the efforts of the government, the EC,
and the IFIs--including the Bank--aimed at improving the implementation capacity of the
transport entities.

To a large extent, the effectiveness of the missions was hindered by the fact that the senior
government officials that the missions regularly met, often ended up focusing mostly if not
exclusively on the city by-passes, to the exclusion of the institutional reform components and the
project's other physical investments. The frequent political and managerial changes in Romania
made it impossible for the supervision missions to secure continuity in its policy and reform
dialogue with the Government.

The task of the supervision missions was further complicated by the fact that they had no single
counterpart or implementing unit, but rather a variety of entities (see Section 5.2b).

However, the supervision missions and the Bank management, in conjunction, did not take
adequate steps at key stages of project implementation that could have helped the project achieve
satisfactory outcomes. The most obvious step would have been to restructure the project early
during implementation, when the country-wide floods that affected transport infrastructure (a)
required to reallocate loan proceeds to repair flood-damaged bridges, (b) further deteriorated the
condition of the road and rail infrastructure, requiring to amend the project baselines and targets
accordingly.

Another opportunity happened in April 2008, when it was still time to restructure the project,
since progress has been slow and only 32 percent of the loan had been disbursed. A Bank


                                                 17
document about its project/loan portfolio review in Romania, issued at that very time, stated:
"Prepare to refocus development objectives and restructure projects as necessary, extending the
project or curtailing activities where there is a cost overrun, and strengthening implementation
support where needed."8 The portfolio review was intended to result in a joint decision between
the Bank and the government on the steps to be taken regarding the underperformance of several
Bank-supported projects in Romania. However, at this stage in the project and with poor
performance, there was little appetite for a full-scale restructuring and associated extension. This
is further elaborated under the sections on Government Performance and Lessons.

The decision to link the PAL series with SILs--and the TRP in particular--does not seem to have
succeeded, and some of the policy reforms were stuck, holding up an overly ambitious PAL
series, which was eventually stopped following Romania's accession to the EU. The new series of
Development Policy Loans (DPLs), spelled out in the 2009 CPS, focused on crisis-response
sectors such as macroeconomic stability, financial sector, public finance and social sectors. The
government and the Bank recognized--at the time of CPS and DPL preparation--the significant
impact of the transport sector on Romania's fiscal situation and the sector's importance in
Romania's economy, but in view of its crisis-response nature, the DPL did not seek to bolster
policy issues tackled in the ongoing Bank SIL portfolio such as transport, energy, or agriculture.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory. Based on the detailed assessment above of the Bank's performance at
entry and during supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

While the government strongly supported the project during preparation, ownership steadily
declined after project approval. EU accession significantly changed the dynamics in Romania,
and attention to policy reforms dropped off rapidly once EU accession was assured. These new
dynamics affected reform elements in many Bank-supported projects in Romania including TRP.
The frequent political changes of the transport authorities and the top managers of the
implementing agencies did not help either. This led to the postponement of key policy decisions
regarding restructuring of the road and the railway sectors, including the closing of non-
commercial railway lines, making it impossible to make significant progress in these areas.

Support for the project declined as implementation started. The Ministry of Transport's attention
concentrated on the city by-passes. This was not surprising, since the by-passes were not only the
largest project investment, but they were also politically very attractive, because of the interest in
them by the city authorities and the high visibility of new road infrastructure. This is in contrast
with politically difficult sector objectives such as making decisions on reorganization of road or
railway entities or on the fate of uneconomic railway lines or passenger services. Yet, it was
unfortunate that practically no attention was given to the project's institutional reforms, which




8
    World Bank: Romania: Joint Portfolio Review, draft, April 2008.


                                                     18
was the heart of the project. There appeared to be no `champion' on the government side that
would have supported the project's institutional objectives.

Romania's accession to the EU in 2007, and Romania's intention to `graduate'9 from the Bank at
about that time, appeared to have been underlying factors in the weakening of the Bank-
Government dialogue and of the implementation of all Bank projects. This level of dialogue was
not conducive for Bank management to put on the table the key policy and institutional reforms
supposed to be supported by the project. However, it was not only Bank projects that suffer.
Projects by practically all IFIs, and in all sectors, also had major implementation delays, likely the
result of the loss of reform appetite after EU accession, continuous political changes and a huge,
ineffective bureaucracy showing little project preparation and implementation capacity.

Further, the implementing agencies were hampered during part of the implementation period by
having salaries lower than other MOT units, which led to the resignation of key staff, and to
lower the staff morale of those who remained.

The creation of a Steering Committee composed of representatives of the government, the Bank,
the EC, and other international financial institutions active in the transport sector was useful to
coordinate activities and address implementation delays, but the committee was slow to become
effective, and suffered itself from the frequent political changes in Romania.

The project was also affected by a government budget ceiling in 2008 that set spending limits for
IBRD-financed investments. This decision seemed to reflect the government's goal at that time of
graduating from the Bank and moving to raise debt in the international financial market. As a
result, the budgeted loan allocated for the road component was reduced from US$22.9 million to
US$7.4 million, and, similarly, allocation for the rail was reduced from US$68 million to US$21
million. Allocation of funds to the TRP (as well as the TSSP) by the MOT within the overall
budget for the Ministry of Transport was additionally influenced by MOT's funding commitment
to non-IFI large investment projects underway in Romania at the time.

By the end of 2008 and early 2009, Romania's difficult fiscal situation with the onset of the
global financial crisis led the government to discuss with the Bank a program to provide Romania
significant budgetary support in the form the crisis-response DPL. This was done in parallel to the
decision to cancel US$120 million of the TRP loan in 2009. Paradoxically, government support
for the TRP rose significantly in 2009, within the reduced loan amount, which allowed the
implementing agencies to significantly increase disbursements for all components.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

With the exception of Metrorex--which had a good implementation performance thanks to a
strong and compact implementation team, and only minimal need for project resources because it
included no physical investments--the performance of the implementing agencies suffered from
several problems, starting with the lack of an integrated view of the project. There was no
institutional arrangement that would have allowed coordination of the whole project. Even worse,
on the road side, various RNCMNR departments were responsible for individual subcomponents,
with no road sector view of the operation. The situation was somewhat better for the railways,


9
    Letter from the Ministry of Economy and Finance to the Bank, dated September 5, 2007.


                                                    19
since a single CFR department (External Finance Department) ensured, in a centralized manner,
the coordination and implementation of the railway component. However, this department had no
authority in establishing project priorities, since technical aspects and complex institutional issues
were dealt with at the level of CFR's senior management and technical departments.

Implementation of the TRP was negatively affected by numerous changes in senior officials and
managers and by the resignation of important road and rail staff following a period of low salaries
in these agencies. A significant improvement in the implementation capacity of the railway
implementing agency happened with the appointment in 2008 of a revamped project management
unit (PMU) comprising 15 experienced staff responsible for the project's financial, accounting,
and procurement aspects and for the preparation of technical specifications. Until the PMU was
established, the staff allocated by CFR to implement the project lacked the administrative
authority to call on experts in the different fields to help prepare the procurement documents. On
the road side, while specialists working on the different components made impressive efforts to
implement the part for which they were responsible, no person had a comprehensive view of the
road component and of the objectives it was supposed to achieve.

While implementation improved in both roads and railways starting in 2008, the improvements
were limited to activities that did not require policy decisions, since the reform program--agreed
with the Bank at appraisal--was stalled during practically all the implementation period.

The procurement process in RNCMNR was cumbersome in the early years of implementation
due to procurement staff being involved in several bid evaluations simultaneously, delaying
decisions. Also, there was much time lost in nominating and convening evaluation committees.
Evaluation of proposals improved, when RNCMNR introduced "project directorates" hiring more
staff and consultants, and increasing salaries for project staff.

Overall, despite its more fragmented implementation organization, and problems with bid
evaluation arrangements, RNCMNR was more effective with procurement than CFR, especially
taking proactive steps to prepare the tender documents and procedures on the expectations that
funding would be eventually received. CFR was more cautious to proceed with procurement
activities when the budget situation was not clarified, and the involvement of beneficiaries other
than CFR complicated the start of key consultancies. As noted above, CFR's implementation
performance improved in 2008, when several complex railway tendering package were prepared,
but they were canceled when it became clear that the loan closing date would not be extended.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory. Based on the detailed assessment above of the Government and
implementing agencies' performance, the overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

Some lessons described here also apply to the TSSP project, since both projects were
implemented at about the same time, had the same the implementing agencies, and were subject
to similar implementation problems.




                                                 20
Two of the lessons are of especial importance:

    1) The Need for the Bank to React to a Changing Project Environment
The most significant lesson stemming from this project is the need for the Bank to make timely
decisions, when key circumstances negative--or positive--to a project develop, in order to be
able to implement a successful project. The experience with the TRP was that such circumstances,
physical, institutional and political, dominated project implementation and made it impossible to
attain project objectives. The Bank should be especially alert in the case of high risk projects,
with substantive institutional objectives, such as the TRP.

In Romania, major floods causing country-wide, serious damage to transport infrastructure and
frequent political changes that started soon after project implementation, should have provided a
red flag, alerting Bank management that it needed to pay special attention to the impact of those
factors on project implementation. Three situations happened at different times, each providing an
opportunity for the Bank to react and take appropriate actions.

The first, and most obvious and simplest to address, was at the start of implementation, when the
addition to the project of flood-damaged bridges, itself a right decision, required the allocation of
10 percent of the loan for these works. It was then evident that this change would mean that other
components would not be carried out, or only partially, and objectives and targets should have
been amended consistent with the revised allocation of loan funds.

The second situation was around April 2008, when the implementation delays, mainly caused by
lack of political support, the additional costs of the flood-damaged bridges and the increased cost
estimate resulting from the redesign of by-passes made it obvious that the objectives and targets
could not be met under the original design and the original closing date. It was also at that time
that the status of the overall dialogue between Romania and the Bank was not conducive to
continue with a heavy agenda of policy and institutional reforms under the umbrella of a Specific
Investment Loan.

The third situation occurred in early 2009, when the improved pace of implementation of physical
components that had started in the middle of 2008 in both RNCMNR and CFR suggested that a
longer extension of the closing date, coupled with restructuring and amended targets, could have
permitted the completion of most components and increased the chances for a successful
outcome--as recommended by the Midterm Review (MTR) conducted in September 2008. The
MTR made project restructuring contingent on government confirmation--in late 2008 or early
2009--of its commitment to project policy and institutional reform objectives, a confirmation that
was not received by the Bank.

An extension, however, would have needed to be long (2 to 3 years) and would have required a
clear government signal that reforms would be carried out. Taking action in the last two situations
would have required more complicated discussions between the Bank and the government, when
the overall dialogue between both sides was not good.

Failure of the Borrower to support the project's institutional reforms probably meant that the
project was, in any case, unlikely to meet the reform targets. In this case, the Bank would have
needed to decide on the merits of keeping implementing the project, but with simplified targets--
for example, revising it to make it closer to an emergency project, focused on helping repair the




                                                 21
damages to transport infrastructure caused by the floods--or to cancel it altogether. Keeping the
project moving when it was clear that the objectives could not be achieved was the worst course.

    2) Designing and implementing city by-passes
This lesson is highlighted here because of the importance of the city by-passes. City by-passes are
institutionally complex endeavors since political and technical views of the city management
need to be reconciled and agreed with the views of the design and implementation staff of the
road agency. Implementing the by-passes, once their design had been agreed, would have been
further complicated by the legislation prevailing in Romania at the time for land acquisition. As a
consequence, more time should be allocated in a project schedule to take into account the
coordination and agreement between the relevant stakeholders, and the time required to acquire
land. The fact that some by-passes were redesigned, and that none of the project by-passes was
actually build attests to this fact. With the by-passes now ready for implementation, and legal
reforms introduced in 2009 that facilitate land acquisition, the time would be now opportune for
the government to find the required finance and carry out these important investments.

Other Lessons

     Better coordination between the Bank and other IFIs would be needed, to avoid
    duplication of efforts such as what happened with the Road User Charges study, which
    needed to be considerably revised in view of the unsatisfactory quality of the first study
    report. Ideally, this coordination should be the responsibility of the Borrower.
     Romania needs to develop effective mechanisms for capital program preparation and
    delivery. Romania--and many pre-accession or new EU member states--has been relying
    almost solely on grant funding to finance activities necessary to develop and implement
    capital programs including strategic planning, feasibility studies, environmental assessments,
    preparation of designs, or project management. This reliance on "free" money has resulted in
    programs being developed and implemented according to the schedule and size of grant
    funding--for technical assistance--and in lack of ownership and incentives for civil servants
    to ensure the quality final products. To enhance program preparation and delivery, it is
    important for the government to invest in upstream preparatory work and in project
    management and ensure preparation and management are rigorously implemented and
    monitored.
     The bid evaluation process appeared excessively cumbersome and slow, due to large
    evaluation committees composed of too many persons representing different agencies. An
    equal level of transparency and fairness, while making the process more effective, can be
    reached with smaller evaluation committees composed mainly by agency representatives.
    This approach was successfully followed in the second half of project life.
     Often senior officials and implementation staff tend to focus on the project's physical
    investments, to the exclusion of reform components. This is especially critical in reform
    oriented projects such as the TRP. Instituting major reforms may work better under DPLs or
    other reform-focused project models.
     The government should take into account the declining demand for some of the railway
    lines, and provide the railway infrastructure manager with the necessary authority and
    incentives, when alternative transport services are available for the population, to close those
    lines to make the operation of railway infrastructure financially and fiscally sustainable.




                                                22
     Giving road agencies such as the RNCMNR a commercial structure provides no benefits,
    and may even be counterproductive, if in parallel adequate funding--that secures predictable
    and sufficient future cash flow for the company--is not made available to it.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments provided by the implementing agencies RNCMNR (roads), CFR (railways) and
METROREX (urban transport) are summarized in Annex 7.

Both the RNCMNR and the CFR submissions note as key factors affecting implementation (from
which lessons are derived), the delays in declaring the project effective, the impact of the damage
to transport infrastructure caused by the severe and repeated floods in 2005, the insufficient
budgetary allowances that prevented procurement to proceed in accordance with the agreed
schedule, and the stopping of procurement for those contracts that could not have been completed
within the project's closing date.

The Metrorex submission focuses on the successful outcome of the urban transport objective,
highlights the various activities completed, and lists a key lessons the close relationship between
the agency's economic and technical staff with the project implementation team, the stability of
the Metrorex team during project preparation and implementation and the good cooperation with
the Bank team.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                                23
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                   Percentage of
           Components                                         Estimate
                                         (USD million)                       Appraisal
                                                            (USD million)
 Roads sub-sector
-Institutional development                    7.7                1.6             21
- Road safety improvement                     7.9                0.0             0
- Construction of by-passes                  222.5               0.0             0
-Supervision/design of by-passes,
                                              12.7              18.5            146
bridge rehab and road safety works
-Bridge rehabilitation                        13.9              54.2            390
-Annual financial audits                       2.4               0.7             29
-Contingencies and unallocated                 1.2                -               -
-Miscellaneous (permits,
                                              9.4                0.0             0
authorizations, land acquisition)
                         Total Roads         277.7              75.0             27

Railways sub-sector
-Technical cooperation and training           13.6              4.4              32
-IRIS hardware and communications
                                              7.2               4.3              60
network
-Infrastructure maintenance, power
                                              75.9              18.3             24
supply and signaling equipment
-Systems for quality and
                                              1.2               0.1              8
environmental management
-Annual financial audits                       0.6               0.7            117
-Contingencies and unallocated                 0.5                 -             -
                      Total Railways          99.0              27.8            28

Urban transport sub-sector
-Technical assistance and
                                              1.2                1.0             83
Institutional Development
              Total Urban Transport           1.2                1.0             83

Total Project Cost                           377.9              103.8            27




                                                24
(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                     Type of                                 Percentage of
         Source of Funds                           Estimate      Estimate
                                   Cofinancing                                Appraisal
                                                 (USD million) (USD million)
Roads sub-sector
                           BorrowerBudget           128.7           20.0          16
              International Bank for
                                     Loan           149.0           55.0          37
  Reconstruction and Development
                        Total Roads                 277.7           75.0          27
Railways sub-sector
                           BorrowerBudget            24.0           1.8            8
              International Bank for
                                     Loan            75.0           26.0          35
  Reconstruction and Development
                    Total Railways                   99.0           27.8          28
Urban transport sub-sector
                           BorrowerBudget             0.2           0.0            0
              International Bank for
                                     Loan             1.0           1.0           100
  Reconstruction and Development
           Total Urban Transport                      1.2           1.0           83
Total Project
                           BorrowerBudget           152.9           21.8          14
              International Bank for
                                     Loan           225.0           82.0          36
  Reconstruction and Development
                               Total                377.9          103.8          27




                                            25
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component

 Outputs by component are summarized in the table below
              Component                     Output                           Comment
                                           ROADS
                                     Physical Investments
Bridges
    a) Rehabilitation               14 bridges rehabilitated    11 bridges completed by closing
                                                                date and 3 to be completed under
                                                                state budget financing before June
                                                                2010.
   b) Flood emergency repairs       70 bridges repaired         Added to project following major
                                                                floods in 2005.
                                                                50 bridges completed by closing
                                                                date and 20 bridges to be
                                                                completed under state-budget
                                                                financing before June 2010.
By-passes                                      None             Design and bidding documents
                                                                were completed for 5 by-passes.
                                                                Physical implementation was not
                                                                possible within project's extended
                                                                closing date.
                                      Other Components
TA on road management system            Study completed         Study provided road map for
                                                                enhancement of PMS/BMS. No
                                                                action reported on study's
                                                                recommendations.
TA on immediate assistance to          Launched, partially      This study was requested by
RNCMNR                                   implemented.           RNCMNR in 2005, launched, but
                                                                prematurely terminated by
                                                                RNCMNR's management.
Road safety                                  Not done           RNCMNR during early
                                                                implementation decided to have
                                                                this program implemented under an
                                                                EU program
Audits                              Audits up to an including   Audits for 2009 being undertaken
                                    year 2008 carried out per   under the project after loan closing.
                                            contract.
                                         RAILWAYS
                                    Physical Investments
Infrastructure Maintenance, Power
Supply and Signaling Equipment
-Track maintenance                  4 ballast profiling         All this equipment is operational in
                                    machines                    CFR.
                                    2 ballast cleaning


                                               26
                                      machines
                                      16 units for mechanical
                                      repairs and welding
-Signaling and power                                               Faurei traffic control pilot and
                                                                   Power supply for Buzau and Adjud
                                                                   electrification centers (value about
                                                                   40 million USD) were not procured
                                                                   due to preparation delays and not
                                                                   possible to complete within closing
                                                                   date. The procurement of Buzau
                                                                   and Adjud electrification centers
                                                                   was cancelled after completion of
                                                                   the Evaluation Report.
Improved utilization of Information   Hardware and related         All this equipment is operational in
and Communications Technology         software to increase         CFR.
                                      capacity and security
                                      level for IRIS data
                                      transmission network
                                      Hardware to increase
                                      processing capacity of the
                                      IRIS central database
                                      servers
Systems for quality and               Partial supply of            Equipment supplied includes
environmental management              equipment completed          turbid-meter, PH meter, photometer
                                                                   and other related equipment
                                        Other components
Technical Cooperation
-Management development               Completed                    Covered CFR, Marfa and Calatori
-Business process redesign            Partially completed          Business concept created but not
                                                                   implemented
Survey of market demand for           Completed                    Provided Calatori and government
passengers                                                         with tools to adjust supply to actual
                                                                   demand
PMU training                          Completed                    Focused on procurement
                                      URBAN TRANSPORT
Institutional development             Completed                    Activities included TA for: (i)
                                                                   establishment of Bucharest
                                                                   Metropolitan Transport Authority,
                                                                   (ii) reorganization of the Metrorex
                                                                   institutional structure to improve
                                                                   efficiency and effectiveness, (iii)
                                                                   Extension of Metrorex services
                                                                   within a metropolitan Bucharest,
                                                                   (iv) audit.




                                                27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

This Annex presents the economic re-evaluation of the project. It comprises two main sections;
(i) economic analysis of the roads component; and (ii) economic analysis of the railways
component

(i) Economic analysis of the road component

At project appraisal the economic evaluation focused entirely on the benefits arising from the
construction of the by-passes. In the end, this subcomponent was cancelled and the emergency
repair of the flood-damaged bridges became the largest sub-component of the road component.
For the reason, the ICR economic re-evaluation focuses entirely on the flood-damaged bridges
component. The analysis was conducted taking into consideration the social and economic impact
in the areas that were affected and isolated from the rest of the country, causing large deviations
and detours to the normal travel routes.

A total of 70 bridges were rehabilitated in different regions. For the economic analysis, these
bridges were divided into three different categories depending on the level of traffic provided by
RNCMNR and the repair cost per bridge as shown in Table 1. "Bridge group 1" includes 12
bridges having an ADDT higher than 5,000 vehicles per day and repair works higher than US$ 1
million; "Bridge group 2" comprises 20 middle class bridges which ADDT in the range of 1,000-
5,000 and repair cost around US$ 0.5 million; and "Bridge group 3" includes the rest of bridges
with lower ADDT and smaller repairs.

                                   Table 1: Bridge categories
                     Number           ADDT            ADDT (average)          Econ. cost per bridge
                    of bridges                                               (average) US$ million
 Bridge group 1       12            ADDT>5000                10,801                   1.06
 Bridge group 2       20         5000>ADDT>1000              3,024                    0.48
 Bridge group 3       38            1000>ADDT                 884                     0.33
                   Total = 70

The analysis was conducted individually for each of the groups and then aggregated at the end as
a whole component. RNCMNR estimated that if no repairs had been done bridges would have
been out of service by end of 2010 causing serious traffic congestions and detours of 80 km on
average from the standard route.

The main benefits included in the analysis are the improvement in accessibility and time savings.
Inputs for vehicle operating costs used in the calculations are based on current prices adjusted to
economic prices, of vehicles, spare parts, fuel as well as current operating conditions in Romania.

The results show that "Bridge group 1" has the highest economic benefits reflecting the higher
traffic (see Table 2). In all the cases, the economic analysis show positive net present value
(NPV) and economic internal rate of return (EIRR) equal or higher than 12 percent, based on a
discount rate of 12 percent.

The cost-benefit analysis shows that the NPV for the flood-damaged bridges component is
US$ 33.7 million and the EIRR is 27 percent.



                                                28
     Table 2: Results of the economic analysis of the repairs to flood damaged bridges
                                  Net Present Value @     Economic Internal Rate
                                     12% (US$ M.)                  of Return
          Bridge group 1                  24.5                        37%
          Bridge group 2                   9.0                        26%
          Bridge group 3                   0.1                        12%
          All bridges                     33.7                       27%

(ii) Economic analysis of the railways component

After the partial cancelation of the loan, the maintenance equipment became the major sub-
component. There are three types of equipment that have the largest impact on the project: (i)
ballast profiling machines; (ii) ballast cleaning machine; and (iii) equipment for mechanized
repair, welding and hardfacing of worn rails and fogs. The economic analysis focuses on these
three types of equipment and the benefits brought to the CFR maintenance system.

Two ballast profiling machines were procured under the project replacing old equipment dating
from 1977. Based on CFR data the new machines are 3 to 5 times more productive than the
outdated equipment used previously for this task. CFR provided data showing the reduction in
operation cost due to the new equipment.

The ballast cleaning machine procured under the project replaces several pieces of equipment
dated from 1974. The new machine's productivity is about six times higher than the previous
equipment. This fact brings several benefits such as energy and labor savings for the ballast
cleaning operation that was taken into consideration in the economic analysis.

The equipment for mechanized repair, welding and hardfacing of worn rails and fogs is
completely new for CFR. The main benefit of this equipment is the life extension of rail and
switches previously deteriorated. According CFR statistics, the cost of reparation of a switch
using the welding set is only about 2 percent of the cost related of purchasing a new one.

Based on this information, the economic re-evaluation was carried out. The results are shown in
Table 3. Even though the benefits brought by this new equipment are sound, the economic returns
are not excessively elevated due to the high investment cost related to this class of track
maintenance equipment.

The cost-benefit analysis shows a positive NPV @ 12 percent of US$ 2 million and an EIRR of
17 percent.

               Table 3: Economic analysis of railway maintenance equipment
                                    Net Present Value @      Economic Internal Rate
                                       12% (US$ M.)                of Return
      Ballast profiling                       0.4                     15%
      Ballast cleaning                        1.0                     17%
      Welding set                             0.6                     24%
      Total track maintenance                 2.0                    17%




                                              29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                   Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
                                                                    Task Team Leader
Henry Kerali               Sr. Highway Engineer               ECSIE (from 11/1/2003)
                                                                    Task Team Leader
Antti Talvitie             Sr. Transport Specialist           ECSIE (prior to 11/1/2003)
Sunja Kim                  Sr. Financial Analyst              ECSIE Railway Financial Analysis
                                                                    Railway Institutional
Allan Pozniak              Consultant, Railway Specialist     ECSIE Development
Luisa Velardi              Consultant, Railway Specialist     ECSIE Railways
Salim Benouniche           Sr. Procurement Specialist         ECSPE Procurement
                                                                    Social Development and
Stan Peabody               Lead Social Scientist              ECSSD Safeguards
                           Consultant, Environment
                                                                      Environment
Bernard Baratz             Specialist                         ECSSD
                           Consultant, Environment
                                                                      Environment
Serena Adler               Specialist                         ECCU5
Doina Visa                 Project Officer                    ECCU5   Project management
Otilia Nutu                Consultant                         ECCU5   Project management
Bogdan Constantinescu      Financial Management Specialist    ECCU5   Financial Management
Jonathan Pavluk            Senior Counsel                     LEGEC   Lawyer
Nicholay Chistyakov        Disbursement Officer               LOAG1   Finance Officer
Coral Bird                 Program Assistant                  ECSIE   Administrative support
Supervision/ICR
                                                                    Program/Task Team Leader
Henry Kerali               Lead Transport Specialist          ECSSD (11/1/2003 to 10/20/2008)
                                                                    Task Team Leader (from
Mohammed Dalil Essakali    Senior Infrastructure Economist    ECSSD 10/20/2008)
                                                                    Program Team Leader (from
Gerald Paul Ollivier       Senior Infrastructure Specialist   ECSSD 10/1/2008)
Antti Talvitie             Consultant                         ECSSD Institutional Development
                                                                    Railway Institutional
Allan Pozniak              Consultant, Railway Specialist     ECSSD Development
Sunja Kim                  Consultant                         ECSSD Railway Financial Analysis
Gaetan Tracz               Financial Analyst                  ECSSD Railway Financial Analysis
Astrid Manroth             Senior Financial Analyst           ECSSD Railway Financial Analysis
Nadia Badea                Operations Analyst                 ECSSD Project management, ICR
George Banjo               Senior Transport Specialist        ECSSD Engineering, road safety
Hernan Levy                Consultant                         ECSSD ICR Primary Author
Alejandro Lopez Martinez   Engineer, JPA                      ECSSD Engineering, ICR
Doina Visa                 Project Officer                    ECSSD Project management
Alexandra Stan             Operations Officer                 ECSSD Project management
Otilia Nutu                Consultant                         ECSSD Project management
Salim Benouniche           Sr. Procurement Specialist         ECSPS Procurement
Vladislav Krasikov         Sr. Procurement Specialist         ECSPS Procurement



                                                   30
                                                                    Social Development and
Stan Peabody                Lead Social Scientist             ECSSD Safeguards
                                                                    Social Development and
Lucian Pop                  Senior Social Scientist           ECSSD Safeguards
Ruxandra Floroiu            Environmental Engineer            ECSSD Environment
Cesar Niculescu             Environment Specialist            ECSSD Environment
                            Senior Financial Management
                                                                      Financial Management
Bogdan Constantinescu       Specialist                        ECSPS
Anneliese Viorela Voinea    Financial Management Specialist   ECSPS   Financial Management
Ruxandra Costache           Counsel                           LEGEM   Lawyer
Nicholay Chistyakov         Senior Disbursement Officer       CTRFC   Finance Officer
Coral Bird                  Program Assistant                 ECSSD   Administrative support
Lorraine McCann Kosinski    Program Assistant                 ECSSD   Administrative support
Cristina Zirimis            Program Assistant                 ECSSD   Administrative support
Alexandra Livia Onofrei     Program Assistant                 ECSSD   Administrative support

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
   Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                           25                               186
FY05                                           25                               117
                       Total                   50                               303
Supervision/ICR
FY05                                           12                               104
FY06                                           27                               168
FY07                                           42                               160
FY08                                           43                               193
FY09                                           33                               133
FY10                                           24                               100
                       Total                   181                              858




                                                    31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not applicable




                                      32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not applicable




                                   33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Contributions by the implementing agencies RNCMNR (roads), CFR (railways) and Metrorex
(urban transport) are summarized below.

Roads Component
Summary on the additional component of emergency repair of flood-damaged bridges

A large number of bridges of the Romanian national network suffered serious damage as a
consequence of floods that occurred in the spring of 2005. Repairs/reconstruction of these bridges
was added to the original components of the project.
The Ministry of Transports, Construction and Tourism of Romania (MTCT) represented by the
Romanian National Company of Motorways and National Roads (RNCMNR) has as a prior interest
to execute the necessary reparation and rehabilitation of the damages occurred with a serious
intervention on roads and in many river beds of bridges.
All these interventions were necessary to restore the original situation and allow a safe circulation
for vehicular traffic.
The TRP project initially required an assessment of bridges that had been affected by the flooding
to determine which of them were in need of rehabilitation or reconstruction and to assign the
priority in which they required attention. At the same time, a budget estimate for the repair work
and the services necessary to provide it was establish.
Once a schedule of the bridges, a scope of the work required and the budget costs had been
prepared and the World Bank had approved a programme and funding, work on implementing the
programme commenced


Key factors affecting implementation and outcome

Among the key-factors affecting the project implementation, there can be mentioned the
following:

            In order to access the funds, the Borrower had to fulfill the conditions for achieving
            the loan effectiveness, as well as the ratification of the Loan Agreement, procedures
            that lasted 8 months;
            In the first half of 2005 the entire Romanian territory was affected by severe and
            repeated floods that damaged the roads infrastructure;
            Delays in implementation due to usage of Yellow FIDIC (Design & Build) for the
            first time and lack of approved documentation to be used for construction of by-
            passes;
            Modifications requested by local authorities to the design of the by-passes (changes
            from 2 lanes to 4 lanes and inclusion of additional road sections) have led to
            increased costs;
            Due to insufficient budgetary allowances, public procurement procedures for by-
            passes could not start according to agreed schedule and later representatives from
            IBRD requested RNCMNR to call off public procurement procedures for all
            contracts that cannot be finalized until end of year 2009.
            Bankruptcy of some contractors working on the bridge rehabilitation component


                                                 34
Borrower performance and outcomes

RNCMNR implemented contracts for design of by-passes for selected cities, contracts for bridges
rehabilitation, contracts for reconstruction/rehabilitation of bridges damaged by floods, contracts
for goods and consultancy services (including training and audit).
Most of the flood-affected bridges are now wider than the ones replaced and provide a greater
degree of safety to vehicles and pedestrians. 70 such bridges will have been
rehabilitated/reconstructed by June 2010.
Transport Restructuring Project (TRP) was implemented by a project implementation unit (PIU)
established within RNCMNR. The PIU responsible for TRP implementation consists of staff
involved both in implementation of contracts and financial management and disbursement.
Lessons

Efficiency of project implementation depends on:

        a) Availability from the start of all necessary documents (bidding, technical, financial)
        according to specificity of included components;
        b) Availability of necessary funds (both from Loan and Government contribution) during
        the whole period of implementation;
        c) Establishment of both Project Management Unit and Project Implementation Unit and
        stability of the involved staff (technical, procurement and financial).
        d) Appropriate contractual procedures and documentation in the areas of (i) design, to
        produce more accurate bill of quantities, require designers to provide a professional
        indemnity insurance and submit tenders in universally accepted format, (ii) contract
        award and supervision, to ensure that construction contracts are not awarded until an
        independent consultant engineer has been contracted to carry out supervision, that tender
        documents are submitted in electronic form, and that penalties are applied if the
        construction program is not regularly updated by the contractor.

Strong and continuous cooperation between the Government, Ministry of Transport and
Infrastructure, RNCMNR and the Bank is essential for successful implementation of the project.

Commitment from the Ministry of Public Finance regarding availability of necessary funds for
implementation of the Project is necessary.

The Bank staff was very helpful and provided technical assistance during the whole
implementation period of the Project.

Railways Component
Key factors affecting implementation and outcome

Among the key factors affecting the project implementation, there can be mentioned the
following:




                                                35
           In order to access the funds the Borrower had to fulfill the conditions for achieving
           the loan effectiveness, as well as the ratification of the Loan Agreement, process that
           took approximately 8 months;
           In the first half of 2005 the entire Romanian territory was affected by severe and
           repeated floods that damaged the railway infrastructure;
           Considering the complexity of the Railway component, at the Bank's request, a
           Steering Committee was appointed at Ministry of Transport level, in order to ensure
           the needed decision level. Its initial form was completed by Ministry of Transport
           Order no.2053/29.11.2005; however for various reasons its impact on the Project
           implementation was marginal;
           As the Bank's procedure requires that a WB Project Beneficiary must be audited by a
           firm acceptable to the Bank, an absolute priority was given to contract the audit
           services accordingly. This process took more than 1 year (the audit services have
           been bided initially for the entire period 2005-2009, being afterwards split in two
           procedures for the periods 2005-2007 and 2007 -2009) while all other contracts had
           to wait for fulfillment of this mandatory condition;
           Changes in the initial components list imposed by operational situation;
           The cancelling of some procurement procedures for which the contract deadline
           would have exceeded the initial closing date of the loan (31 July 2009);
           Continuous change in personnel and management in the railway companies;
           Frequent political changes in the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure.

Assessment of outcomes

All the delivered hardware and related software were compliant with the requirements and all the
related services were performed satisfactory by the supplier.

Summary on IRIS systems operational status

Train Circulation Applications: implemented in 463 railway stations, 23 traffic management
units (RC), 8 regional traffic management units and the central traffic management department,
with more than 950 users.

Infrastructure Management Applications: implemented in all the Infrastructure Maintenance
Sections, and at Regional and Central management levels, in production since 2003.

Rolling Stock Management Applications: implemented for all the railway companies, used
mainly for fleet management by CFR, CFR Calatori and CFR Marfa.

Freight and Passengers Train Operation Applications: implemented for CFR Calatori and
CFR Marfa. Low usage at CFR Calatori. At CFR Marfa this application replaced the old system
BETA and the migration was completed in august 2008.

Freight Commercial Applications: not implemented because CFR Marfa could not implement
the necessary business changes or did not ask for changes to the application. However, a new
commercial subsystem was designed, only for Centralized Paid Contracts at the HQ of CFR
Marfa, and was implemented in January 2009. Considering that almost 80% of CFR Marfa
commercial activities are actually contract based, the rollout of this subsystem to all the
Commercial Centers was planned for the first part of 2010. The subsystem for Electronic
Consignment Note is planned for development and implementation by the end of 2012.



                                              36
Summary on Infrastructure Maintenance (track machines)

Ballast profiling machines. Four ballast profiling machines Machines purchased were delivered
to CFR SA in early 2008 and were put into service, in RCF Branch Timisoara, RCF Branch
Brasov, RCF Iasi Branch and RCF Branch Brasov, after a training session made to each
individual machine. All four machines operated with good results throughout the operation time.
The total length of the profiled lines (standard), including those lines on which the profiling
works have been repeated, is of 1,773.00 km and the total length of lines on which other works
have been carried, such as loading plus distribution of ballast with the bunker, brushing and
redistribution of ballast, etc, is of 1,123.00 km, meaning a total length of 2,896.00 km.

Ballast cleaning machines. Two ballast cleaning machines were delivered to CFR SA in the
second half of 2009 and were put into service, in RCF Branch Galati and RCF Branch Craiova,
after a training session made to each individual machine by a manufacturer specialist. The two
machines are currently in the warrantee period and the supplier provides technical assistance. The
total length of the screened lines ­ current lines and lines within the stations ­ is of 47.49 km and
there are 11 screened track equipment.

Equipment for mechanized repair, welding and hardfacing of worn rails and fogs. Sixteen
sets of equipment were procured and put into operation (quarter I - 2008) specific tasks were
performed by repairing through welding and hardfacing approx. 660 switch worn parts and 565
worn or exfoliated rails as well as other switch parts (rails, guard rails, etc.).

Borrower performance

CFR has managed to implement 14 contracts for goods and consultancy services (including
training and audit). The total value of these contracts is US$ 31.00 million equivalent, out of
which US$ 6.91 million for consultancy services and US$ 24.09 million for goods.
Transport Restructuring Project (TRP) is implemented by a project implementation team
established within CFR. The project implementation team in CFR is also carrying out the
implementation of the Transport Sector Support Project (TSSP). The project implementation team
is having several financial experts in charge with projects' financial management and
disbursement. The staff has the appropriate skills and resources in managing the financial
management and disbursement aspects of the projects, with most of the experts having worked
previously on other World Bank financed projects.
Lessons

The speed of the implementation depends, among others, on:
       a) Involvement, starting with the loan preparation phase, of both technical and economic
       staff. In this way the ownership and therefore the implication of the final beneficiary
       (mostly technical part) will become stronger.
        b) The possibility to keep the same project team (technical, procurement and economical
        experts) during both preparation and implementation phases.
        c) The stability of management team for all involved entities at medium and upper level.
The budgetary constraints can be overrun through a very accurate and timely overview of the
allocated ceiling corroborated with the specific needs of each project. This allows reallocating of
funds in order to meet the requirements, without affecting the budgetary imposed ceiling.



                                                 37
The tight cooperation between the Government, CFR and the Bank is a key factor that leads to the
success of the project.
The Bank is not only a monitoring entity but has a strong involvement in the development of
strategies to insure the overall success of the Railway Reform
The Bank staff was very supportive during all the Project stages.


Urban Transport Component
Assessment of outcomes

a). For a better understanding of the European practices, it was organized a study tour for the
Steering Committee to two successful metropolitan transport authorities. This tour consisted in a
real tool for studying the role of such an authority, the establishing modality, the problems that
may arise and the involved solving solutions.
The tour enjoyed true success, giving the possibility to learn about the activity of two important
authorities, operation conditions specific for each of them and the results achieved for the
organization and management of metropolitan public transport.

The technical assistance study emphasized the real need for the establishment of the Bucharest
Transport Metropolitan Authority, as the sole institutional measure to contribute at the
reorganization of the entire urban public transport within the metropolitan area.

b). the second technical assistance study made recommendations to improve efficiency and
productivity through organization of Metrorex and its staff and management, to increase the
attractivity of the metro transportation service, the technical improvements based upon major
investments projects leading to labour productivity increase, improved budgeting and accounting,
introduction of contract maintenance and better marketing.

c). The third technical assistance study emphasised the enforcement of the measures provided in
the public transport global development strategy, organizational, investment-related and
institutional long, medium and short term measures, will result in major economic and financial
effects which would lead to increased efficiency of overall public transport and lower government
subsidies.

The social effects that the implementation of the measures included in the strategy would
generate upon the sustainable growth of the city and its suburban area would help Bucharest
become one of the modern European capitals and would create the premises for further
development of the metropolitan area.

The implementation of strategy and investment plan will be fulfilled taking into account all
necessary prepared steps regarding implementation of such projects.

Metrorex has already started the implementation of the projects included in the global
development strategy, by signing with the European Investment Bank, on November 12, 2009, a
loan agreement to finance the construction of Bucharest Metro Line 5, and another loan
agreement was signed on March 10, 2010 between Romania and the Japanese International
Cooperation Agency to build the connection between the existing metro network and Bucharest
International Airport.




                                               38
Borrower performance

Metrorex had successfully completed three consulting services contracts for technical assistance
and one audit services contract.

Lessons

   The speed of the project implementation depended, among others, on:

   a) Close relationships between the technical and economic staff together with the Project
      implementation team from the starting loan agreement. Consequently, the Project
      components (three consulting services contracts and one audit services contract) had been
      fully completed within the original period of time agreed in the Loan Agreement.

   b) The possibility to keep the same project team (Project Management Unit) during both
      preparation and implementation stages.

   c) The Project Management Unit carried out all project's stages (documentation preparation,
      advertising, procurement, withdrawals, payments, reporting etc.), in this way the team's
      operating capacity being consolidated within the continuous work together.

   d) Good cooperation between Metrorex and World Bank staff support, respectively, had
      been the key factor during the project implementation that led to the success of the
      Project.




                                              39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


The World Bank, Transport Restructuring Project: Project Appraisal Document (Report
No.27920-RO), October 22, 2004
The World Bank, Transport Restructuring Project: Loan Agreement (Loan/Credit IBRD
47570) between Romania and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development.
Aide-Memoires of Romania-Transport Restructuring Project, World Bank Supervision
missions, 2004 to 2010.
Mid-Term Review, Transport Restructuring Project, World Bank Supervision Mission,
2008.
World Bank, 2001. Country Assistance Strategy for Romania
World Bank, 2006. Country Assistance Partnership, Romania.
World Bank, Independent Evaluation Group, 2005. Country Assistance Evaluation
World Bank, 2008. Implementation Completion and Results Report, First Programmatic
Adjustment Loan, Romania
World Bank, 2008. Romania: Joint Portfolio Review, draft, April.




                                          41
                                                                                                                                                              ROMANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BP    CONSTRUCTION OF BY-PASSES
                                                                                                        T R ANSPORT RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAILROADS
                                                                                                                         To Uzhhorod                                                                                                                                     28°E
                                                                                         22°E                                                      24°E                                                       26°E                                                                                 EUROPEAN CORRIDORS ­ ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                       To

                                                                                                                                                                       UKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                Ivano-Frankivs'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAILROADS EUROPEAN ­
                                                      ROMANIA                                                        Halmeu                                                                                                                                              48°N                      CORRIDORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Siret
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Si
                                                                                                                 Satu                                                                                                               Botosani




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COUNTY (JUDET) CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                 Mare
                                                                                                                                        Baia Mare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Suceava                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pr
                                                                                                                         Somes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t
                                                                                                                        Zalau                                                                    Bi
                                                                                                                                                                                                     str                                                          Iasi
                                                                               Bors     Oradea                                               Dej                                                        ita
                                                                                                                                                                    Bistrita                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Piatra-                                                            Chisinau
                                   H U N G A RY                                                                                                                                   es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Neamt       Roman
               To




                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MOLDOVA




                                                                                                                                                                            Mu
            Budapest                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Albita
                                                                                                                           Cluj-                                         Reghin          BP       Gheorgheni                                             Vaslui
                                                                                                                         Napoca                                                                                                                                                   Husi
                                                                                                                                                           Tîrgu                                                                 Bacau          BP
                                                                                 Crisul Al
                                                                                                                                     Turda                Mures
                                                                                          b
                                                                                                                                                                       BP                       Miercurea-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BRIDGES REHABILITATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                Cuic                      Gheorghe                                                                  VARIOUS LOCATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Si
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gheorghiu-Dej




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                
                                               Nadlac
                                                                   Arad                                                                                                                                                                                              Birlad
                                                                                                              Brad           Alba                  Medias
               To
            Subotica                                                           Mures                                         Lulia
                                                                                                                                                             BP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UKRAINE            46°N
                                                                                                                                      Sebes
                                                                                                                Deva                                                                                          Sfîntu
                                                                                                  Hunedoara                                                                                                   Gheorghe                                       Tecuci                              EMERGENCY REPAIRS TO ROAD
                                                                                                                                                          Sibiu                                                                                                                              BRIDGES DAMAGED BY MAJOR FLOODS
                                                             Timisoara                                                                                                                                                                   Focsani
                                                                               Lugoj                                                                                                              Brasov                                                                                             VARIOUS LOCATIONS
                                                                                        Ti
                                                                                          m
                                                                                           is




                                                                                                                                 Petrosani                                                             BP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Galati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               zau
                                                                        Resita                                                                                                                                                                               Bu      Braila
                                               Moravita
              To
            Novi Sad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tulcea
                                                                                                                                                                  Rimnicu                                                                  Buzau
                                                                                                                                                                  Vilcea
                                                                                                          Targu Jiu
                                                                                                                                                                                   Targoviste
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ploiesti
                                                                                                                                                                               Pitesti
                                                                                                                     Ji




                                                                                         Orsova       Drobeta-
                                                                                                                       u




                                                                          Danub
                                                                               e                                                                                                                                                                                      mita
                                                                                                      Turmu Sererin                                                                                                                                               Ialo

                                                                                                                                                                                                Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                       s                                                     Slobozia                                                Black
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fetesti
                                                                                                                                                              Slatina
                                                To
                                                Nis                  SERBIA                                                      Craiova                                                                                     BUCHAREST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Medgidia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Navodari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                              Olt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nube               Calarasi                             Constanta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Da
              44°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                44°N
                                                                                                                                                             Caracal
                         0         25          50         75        100 Kilometers
                                                                                                               Calafat                                                      Alexandria           Giurgiu                           INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                      Mangalia
                         0                25                 50                 75 Miles                                                                                    Turnu Magurele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            METROREX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 37921
            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
JUNE 2010




            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                               Sofiya                          24°E                 BULGARIA                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Veliko Turnovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Shumen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Varna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30°E
