Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4257 
Operation Name 
GT Fiscal and Institutional DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (34%);General finance sector 
(33%);Law and justice (33%) 
Project ID 
P112312 
Borrower(s) 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 23, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 12, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
October 21, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
This proposed Fiscal and Institutional DP
L
series supports the Colom administration’s 
commitment to maintaining macroeconomic stability, reducing poverty, and making growth 
more inclusive.  The government has placed particular emphasis on policy reforms to improve 
opportunities for the poor through enhanced provision of basic services, as well as improving 
growth and productivity, governance, transparency, and expanding fiscal revenues for targeted 
poverty fighting programs (implementing a new CCT program).  
 
2. Operation Objectives 
The Key Program Development Objectives: 
·
Meeting fiscal and financial needs during a year of economic slowdown
.
This proposed loan 
would help meet the Government’s objective of obtaining stable and low cost financing as 
well as diversifying financing sources for its 2009 budget. This supports the Government’s 
concurrent goals of maintaining fiscal stability and addressing social needs through increased 
and more efficient spending. 
·
Improving the outlook for economic growth, enhanced fiscal space for priority spending, 
governance, and poverty reduction. 
The loan supports a broad agenda of measures anchored 
in Guatemala’s efforts to increase fiscal resources for priority social spending to increase 
growth and reduce poverty, enhance governance and transparency as well as reduce financial 
sector market risk.  The agenda includes key actions of fiscal and institutional reforms to 
ensure that Guatemala can fully benefit from growth and the opportunities deriving from 
greater integration into the regional and world economy.  
·
Increasing the efficiency and transparency of public sector management. 
The public sector 
modernization efforts supported by the loan are expected to improve the efficiency of public 
expenditures, strengthen governance and fight corruption with a specific focus on 
government procurement and financial management. Efforts in these areas are also expected 
to foster an environment more conducive to investment and growth. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Page  2
This is the first operation of a three-part programmatic Development Policy Loan series that is 
designed to assist the government in improving fiscal and institutional policies as a means to 
expand fiscal resources for lowering poverty and inequality.  The government has initiated a 
program to enhance transparent and efficient priority public spending and investment for growth 
and poverty reduction, including a targeted conditional cash transfer program.  The DPL will 
contribute to the government’s main policy objectives by supporting 1) macroeconomic stability 
and greater fiscal space for priority spending and, 2) enhanced governance, transparency, and 
monitoring and evaluation of increased public expenditure and investment. 
 
4. Financing 
IBRD Loan Amount:
 USD 200 million.
 
Terms:
 Commitment-linked fixed spread loan, denominated in US dollar, with level repayments 
of principal payable in 26.5 years (including 8.5 years of grace period). The Borrower wishes to 
maintain all risk management options embedded in the loan, and request an Automatic Rate Fix 
when the full amount of the loan is disbursed.  The Front-end fee is 0.25 percent of the total loan 
amount, financed out of the loan proceeds. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Bank would disburse the loan proceeds into an account of the central bank (BANGUAT) 
denominated in US dollars. BANGUAT will immediately credit the disbursed amounts to the 
Ministry of Finance Treasury Single Account (“common fund”), thus becoming available to 
finance budgeted expenditures. Within a week of this funds transfer, the Ministry will 
accordingly provide the Bank with a written confirmation.  
 
The Ministry of Finance will play the primary role in coordinating monitoring and evaluation of 
program implementation. The government and the Bank will take advantage of several important 
data sources to assess progress of the DPL, including:  
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
This DPL is designed to assist the government in improving fiscal and institutional policies.  The 
government has initiated a program to enhance transparent and efficient priority public spending 
and investment for growth and poverty reduction, including a targeted conditional cash transfer 
program.  The DPL will contribute to the government’s main policy objectives by 1) supporting 
enhanced governance, transparency, and monitoring and evaluation of increased public 
expenditure and investment, 2) supporting macroeconomic stability and greater fiscal space for 
priority spending. 
There are three primary risks associated with the proposed programmatic DPL series: political, 
natural disaster, and economic risks.
 
These risks and the ways they are being mitigated include:  
·
Political:
 
Political deadlock may arise, stalling progress on the policy reforms supported by 
the DPL.  In particular, reforms to increase tax collections to fund priority spending have 
historically been, and continue to be contentious. This concern could be amplified if growth 
begins to slow significantly in the context of the global economic downturn.  
Mitigation: The 
risk is minimized by the Government’s consultative approach to reform implementation and 
the facilitation of dialogue on fiscal action among country stakeholders (with WBI support).  
The operation is also being coordinated with the budget cycle to increase legislative 
engagement.
 
Page  3
·
Natural Disasters:
 Guatemala is highly vulnerable to multiple natural disaster risks
—floods, 
hurricanes and earthquakes—that pose a significant direct threat to economic growth and 
poverty reduction, as well as indirect threat by redirecting government resources away from 
long-run development plans.  
Mitigation: The CPS program supports government efforts to 
update and validate the National Program for Disaster Mitigation and Response. A planned 
CAT-DDO (FY09) would support implementation of comprehensive disaster risk reduction 
measures and, in the event of a disaster, give the Government access to bridge financing 
while it mobilizes funds from other sources for disaster recovery.  In addition, an FY08 non-
lending Technical Assistance program, the Development of Scientific Information to Promote 
the Municipal Planning to Reduce Disaster Risks, has been taken up by Global Facility for 
Disaster Reduction and Recovery grants.
 
·
Economic:
 
U.S. and global deceleration, rising energy and food prices, slowdown in foreign 
investment and lower remittance growth may slow or reverse progress on reforms and 
poverty reduction actions
.
Mitigation: Ongoing macro-monitoring and country dialogue to 
adjust operation if critical risks emerge.  The operation includes specific actions to manage 
and respond to financial vulnerabilities.   
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
The actions supported by this DPL are not expected to have significant adverse distributional 
impact.  To the extent that the measures supported by the DPL series will play a role in 
Government’s ability to enhance social spending levels, their impact on income distribution, 
particularly for the indigenous and rural poor, is expected to be positive.  This is confirmed by 
public expenditure incidence analysis undertaken in the context of the Poverty Assessment which 
indicates that public social expenditures (Peace Accords definition) are generally pro-poor.  
Likewise, the distributive impact of fiscal reforms supported by the DPL series is expected to be 
mildly progressive.  
 
The specific policies supported by this DPL operation are not expected to entail likely significant 
impacts on the environment, forests or other natural resources.  However, to the extent that 
measures supported by the DPL program are successful, over time, in attracting new investment 
(including in infrastructure), there will be a need to strengthen Guatemala’s national institutional 
capacity to identify and address environmental policy and regulatory issues. With this in mind, a 
Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) was undertaken in 2005-2006 (Box 7) and discussed 
with the Government. The CEA provides cost effective recommendations for closing gaps in 
institutional capacity for environmental regulation. As a first step, the CEA conclusions and 
recommendations helped to prepare the ground to obtain approval of the National Environmental 
Policy (Política de Conservación, Protección y Mejoramiento del Ambiente y los Recursos 
Naturales).  The government is continuing to update its National Environmental Policy and 
expects to undertake a Strategic Environmental Analysis with Bank support. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: David Michael Gould 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-9621 
Fax: (202) 614-1236 
Email: dgould@worldbank.org 
Page  4
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
