Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4140 
Operation Name 
GT Fiscal and Institutional DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (34%);General finance sector 
(33%);Law and justice (33%) 
Project ID 
P112312 
Borrower(s) 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
September 8, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 9, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 21, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
This DPL is designed to assist the government in improving fiscal and institutional policies.  The 
government has initiated a program to enhance transparent and efficient priority public spending and 
investment for growth and poverty reduction, including a targeted conditional cash transfer program.  
The DPL will contribute to the government’s main policy objectives by 1) supporting enhanced 
governance, transparency, and monitoring and evaluation of increased public expenditure and 
investment, 2) supporting macroeconomic stability and greater fiscal space for priority spending. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The Key Program Development Objectives are: 
·
Meeting fiscal and financial needs during a year of economic slowdown
.
This proposed loan would 
help meet the Government’s objective of obtaining stable and low cost financing as well as 
diversifying financing sources for its 2009 budget. This supports the Government’s concurrent goals 
of maintaining fiscal stability and addressing social needs through increased and more efficient 
spending. 
·
Improving the outlook for economic growth, enhanced fiscal space for priority spending, 
governance, and poverty reduction. 
The loan supports a broad agenda of measures anchored in 
Guatemala’s efforts to increase fiscal resources for priority social spending to increase growth and 
reduce poverty, enhance governance and transparency as well as reduce financial sector market risk.  
The agenda includes key actions of fiscal and institutional reforms to ensure that Guatemala can 
fully benefit from growth and the opportunities deriving from greater integration into the regional 
and world economy.  
·
Increasing the efficiency and transparency of public sector management. 
The public sector 
modernization efforts supported by the loan are expected to improve the efficiency of public 
expenditures, strengthen governance and fight corruption with a specific focus on government 
procurement and financial management. Efforts in these areas are also expected to foster an 
environment more conducive to investment and growth. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Page  2
The Government of Guatemala has highlighted its commitment to making growth more inclusive to 
address the country’s high levels of poverty and inequality
.
The government has placed particular 
emphasis on policy reforms in the areas of enhancing growth and productivity, governance, 
transparency, reducing risk and expanding fiscal revenues and opportunities for the poor by providing 
basic services (education, healthcare, nutrition, etc).  It aims thereby to address deep pockets of poverty 
in the country, particularly in the rural areas, where recent improvements in overall economic growth 
have not made significant inroads. Crime and violence are also recognized as serious economic and 
social problems and new challenges have arisen, particularly high food and oil prices and the slowdown 
of the global economy, which have tempered economic activity and income growth among the poor. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Not applicable. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: David Michael Gould 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-9621 
Fax: (202) 614-1236 
Email: dgould@worldbank.org 
 
