Fiscal and Institutional Development and Protecting the Poor
                                                                                                    93497
                                                                                                    May 8, 2012




 Fundamentals for Broad-Based and Inclusive Growth in Guatemala


Overview
A series of loans from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development supported
Guatemala's development agenda. Through stronger fiscal and institutional management – and
a better performing social safety net – the Bank project helped improve governance and
encouraged families to keep their children in school and attend regular health checks. Project
results include tax modernization measures that generated extra revenues in a period of fiscal
crisis, increased access to public information which was formalized across most central
government agencies, and an improved business environment.


Challenge
Since the signing of the 1996 Peace Accords, the country
                                                                  More Results
has made headway in addressing social needs and building
democratic institutions. Nevertheless, serious challenges

                                                                 900,000
remained. The series of Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional
Development Policy Loans was initiated in 2008 during a
period of political transition, but also at a time of great
economic uncertainty with the emergence of the global            families were reached by the
                                                                 program
financial crisis and subsequent slow-down in growth. Despite
considerable progress across the policy spectrum and
positive real per capita growth rates, institutional and

                                                                 100%
development outcomes in Guatemala signaled the need for
further reform. In 2008, the new Colom administration's
program stressed reducing poverty and inequality. The
                                                                 of beneficiaries are sending
fundamental challenges for policy makers were to maintain        their children to school and
macroeconomic stability, foster growth and create the            attending required health check-
needed fiscal space to accelerate poverty reduction, but in      ups

an environment of increased transparency and stronger
institutions.
                                                                 LEARN MORE

Approach                                                        Project Details :
                                                                Programmatic Fiscal and
The Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Development
                                                                Institutional Development Policy
Policy Loan Series is aligned with Guatemala's Country          Loan Series to Guatemala.
Partnership Strategy and the government's four-pronged          Signature date :
development strategy. The first loan was signed on March 6,     First DPL: March 6, 2009; Second
2009, and a second on December 7, 2009. The loan series         DPL: December 7, 2009.
focused financial and technical support around four key         Closing date :
areas: Macroeconomic stability and financial sector             First DPL: December 31, 2009;
                                                                Second DPL: December 31, 2010.
deepening; Governance and transparency; the Mi Familia
Progresa Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Program; and           Project documents :
Sustainable growth and productivity. The policy measures to
address key development challenges include fiscal and tax         Guatemala First Programmatic
                                                                  Fiscal Institutional DPL
administration reforms to raise tax revenues above their low
base, extending banking supervision, and creating a               Guatemala Second
moveable assets registry to improve credit to firms that lack     Programmatic Fiscal Institutional
fixed capital. With respect to governance and transparency,       DPL
measures were taken to increase scrutiny and control over
                                                                Other links :
public trust funds and strengthen public financial
management and procurement systems for central and local          Superintendencia de
governments. These steps included creating institutional          Administración Tributaria
structures to promote public accountability and reduce            Access to Public Information
corruption, and passage and implementation of an Access to
                                                                  Mi Familia Progresa
Public Information Law. The rapid roll-out of Mi Familia
Progresa had raised questions of targeting and compliance         Doing Business Indicators
with eligibility criteria, and so, to enhance the program's
poverty reducing impact, the IBRD loan program supported
the introduction of proxy means testing to identify eligible
beneficiaries, and improved procedures for verifying
beneficiaries' co-responsibilities (i.e., confirming school and
health check attendance). Sustained growth and productivity gains also require a conducive
business environment, and the project supported measures focused on accelerating customs
clearance and reducing tax reporting requirements through more efficient electronic processes.


Results
Fiscal modernization efforts to improve the tax administration system resulted in mandatory
electronic submission of business withholding taxes, which improved both accuracy and
efficiency. According to the Superintendencia de Administración Tributaria, the combined
impact of these measures added about US$12 million to fiscal revenues in 2010.  The
implementation of the transitional gross revenues tax helped the Government to meet the
targeted tax revenue outcome indicator for 2010.
With respect to promoting financial sector stability and deepening, consolidated supervision has
been implemented in nine of the 11 financial companies operating in Guatemala, and all four
key profiles for risk-based supervision have been completed and applied to all financial groups.
Early evidence suggests that the registry of movable assets increased the amount of credit in
the economy, such that the share of credit guaranteed by movable collateral reached 4 percent
of total credit as of December 2010.
The adoption of the Access to Public Information Law, which empowers citizens to hold the
government accountable for its use of public resources, led to the creation of specialized public
information offices in 85 percent of central government agencies.
Targeting and transparency of the Mi Familia Progresa program have improved greatly. The
program was extended into more than 270 municipalities to reach over 900,000 families in a
very short period of time.  The program’s simple design and likely modest leakages (due to
very high poverty rates in rural areas) mitigates concerns about the program’s execution.  The
government confirmed that, through a large verification network of local representatives, 100
percent of beneficiaries are sending their children to school and attending required health
check-ups; this result is double the 50 percent verification rate targeted in the outcome
indicator.
The share of firms submitting tax declarations electronically has risen from 34 percent in 2007
to 42 percent in 2010, reducing the amount of time required to make tax declarations and at
the same time improving accuracy. Exporting and importing firms’ productivity has also been
stimulated by the new Customs Management System SAQB’E implemented in 15 ports (out of
18 in total).  By digitizing customs clearance documentation, clearance times for imports fell
from 19 to 17 days and from 18 to 17 days for exports (according to World Bank Doing
Business Indicators).


Bank Contribution
Under the Country Partnership Strategy, IBRD afforded Guatemala a borrowing window worth
US$970 million for the fiscal years 2009-2011, of which US$500 million was designated for this
programmatic loan series (subsequently increased to US$550 million). This series of loans was
prepared in close consultation with the government and stakeholders, such as civil society
groups and international donors.  The policy measures were identified on the basis of
extensive analytical work including: the Guatemala Poverty Assessment (2008), Investment
Climate Assessment (2008), Country Economic Memorandum (2005), Public Expenditure
Review (2007), Financial Sector Assessment Program Update (2007) and the Country
Fiduciary Assessment (2007)


Moving Forward
The Bank will continue to support Guatemala’s reform program.  The forthcoming Public
Expenditure Review will be a useful tool to help the government further deepen and
institutionalize public financial management reform, tax reform, and the effectiveness of social
spending, particularly through the CCT program.  With respect to the latter, disseminating Bank
and other donor-prepared evaluations of Mi Familia Progresa in terms of its costs and benefits
could provide the impetus for improving the program (e.g., through better targeting), generating
broad political support and securing adequate dedicated public resources to finance it in the
future.


Beneficiaries
Petrona Díaz Sicay, a mother of four, lives with her family in an adobe house in Barrio
Chutinamit, San Antonio Palopo, Sololá. Overlooking gorgeous views of the Atitlan Lake, San
Antonio Palopo is one of the poorest municipalities in Guatemala, with four out of 10 people
living in extreme poverty. Petrona is a beneficiary of the CCT program Mi Familia Progresa,
receiving 300 quetzales a month (US$38.40 dollars). “I am grateful for this support", says
Petrona . "Our children are studying and we are sending them to school. I use this money to
buy products that are needed in the house. I buy maize, beans, noodles, incaparina and
oatmeal. I am also grateful because we are getting help at the health post; I take my kids there
to check on their health.”
Maria Xol Lopez and her five children used to live in a one-room house in San Bartolome
Jocotenango, Quiche. A bed, the kitchen, and a table occupied the small space. The smoke
from the firewood used by Maria for cooking made her children ill. However, with the first
payments of Mi Familia Progresa, Maria was able to save enough to lay cement beside her
adobe house and build a new room, where the children now do their homework and sleep,
away from the fumes. Maria does not let her children miss school and, with the cash transfers
from Mi Familia Progresa, she is saving to buy a new mattress for her children’s bed.
