Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24038-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-40170; SCL-4017A; SCPD-4017S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$142.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND EAST JAVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
6/27/2002
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 4/15/2002)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp I = US$ 0001041
US$ I = Rp 9600
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                 Asian Development Bank
APIP                Annual Project Implementation Plan
ASEM                Asia-Europe Meeting (Asian Financial Crisis Response Fund)
BAPPENAS            National Development Planning Agency
BAPPEPROP           Provincial Development Planning Agency (formerly BAPPEDA I)
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CBUIM               Capacity Building for Urban Infrastructure Management (ADB funded)
DA-DPD              Grant funds channeling mechanism from loan proceeds to local governments
DG Cipta Karya      Directorate General of Human Settlements, (fornier) Ministry of Public Works
EJUDPII              Second East Java Urban Development Project
EJSRDP              East Java Strategic Regional Infrastructure Project (proposed)
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FRAP                Financial Recovery Action Plan
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
GOI                 Government of Indonesia
IPLT                Septic Sludge Treatment Plant
IUIDP               Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Project
KIMPRASWIL          Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructure
KIP                 Kampung Improvement Program
LARAP               Land Acquisition & Resettlement Action Plan
LIDAP               Local Institutional Development Action Plan
MIIP                Market Infrastructure Improvement Program
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MOHA                 Ministry of Home Affairs
O&M                  Operations and Maintenance
Padat Karya          Small, labor-intensive public works
PDAM                 Water Enterprise owned by local government
PFAMS                Project Financial Accounting and Monitoring System
PFCMU                Provincial Financial Coordination and Management Unit
PPMO                 Provincial Project Management Office
POMMS                Performance-Oriented Maintenance Management System
PTCU                 Provincial Technical Coordination Unit
REPELITA            National Five-Year Development Plan
RIAP                 Revenue Improvement Action Plan
SLA                  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
UPT                  Unit Pelayanan Terpadu or Integrated Service Unit
Vice President:  Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:  Mr. Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Director  Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Team Leader:   Mr. Stephen Dice, EASUR



INDONESIA
SECOND EAST JAVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              12
6. Sustainability                                                                  15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  19
9. Partner Comments                                                                20
10. Additional Information                                                         20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              33
Annex 8. Environmental Management                                                  34
Annex 9. Loan Funds and Disbursements                                               37
Annex 10. RIAP Implementation                                                       38
Annex 11. Impact of the Economic Crisis                                             40
Annex 12. Project's Response to the Crisis                                         46
Annex 13. Efforts to Promote Good Governance                                        51
Annex 14. Technical Assistance Assignments                                          60
Annex 15. Chronology of Efforts to Prepare a Follow-on Program                     62
Annex 16. Special Problems and Issues                                              64
Annex 17. GOI Comments on the Draft ICR                                             72






Project ID: P039312                                       Project Name: SECOND EAST JAVA URBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Stephen R. Dice                              TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 27. 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SECOND EAST JAVA URBAN DEVELOPMENT             L/C/TF Number: CPL-40170;
PROJECT                                                       SCL-4017A;
SCPD-4017S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: UM - Urban Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/10/1995                             Effective:                     12/13/1996
Appraisal:  05/15/1995                                MTR:
Approval:  05/16/1996                              Closing: 03/31/2000          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Republic of Indonesia/MIN. OF SETTLEMENT AND REGIONAL
INFRASTRUCTURE; Republic of Indonesia/EAST JAVA PROVINCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Russell Cheetham
Country Manager.     Mark Baird                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Keshav Varma                               Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:  Stephen Dice                               Stephen Dice
ICR Primary Author:  Stephen Dice
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN.=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Second East Java Urban Development Project was requested by the Government of Indonesia as a
follow-on project to the East Java Bali Urban Development Project (EJBUDP, Ln. 3304-IND). It was
meant to provide a continuation of the modest and generally successful efforts of the East Java provincial
government and up to 36 participating local governments to overcome current infrastructure and services
deficits versus defined basic services standards of GOI. The project was conceived by both GOI and the
Bank as a "bridging" operation, to complete the unfinished investment program from the EJBUDP in all
local governments, while preparing the next major initiative for cooperation between the Bank and East
Java which had been tentatively defined as the East Java Strategic Regional Development Program to focus
on major investments in infrastructure, poverty alleviation, cultural heritage and other strategic support to
the province and its' local governments in the framework of decentralized economic development and
services delivery.
The medium-term development objectives of the project were to improve urban infrastructure service
delivery, and to develop the necessary financial and institutional capacity in local governments to sustain
urban services. The more specific operational objectives of the project included:
(a) to improve the provision of urban services to residential communities and economic activities
throughout East Java in line with the modest service standards targeted by REPELITA VI, which gave
priority to poor and under-served neighborhoods;
(b) to continue the institutional development assistance provided for local and provincial government
agencies under the EJBUDP , particularly to strengthen local capacities for O&M of urban service
systems, and increase the effectiveness of local resource mobilization and management; and
(c) to support GOI and East Javan efforts to operationally define the REPELITA VII urban/regional
development strategy to include environmental management, land development controls, and private sector
participation in an improved planning and infrastructure investment framework for realizing regional
development potentials by supporting the preparation of an East Java Strategic Regional Development
Program.
The project design and the above objectives were fully consistent the current CAS for Indonesia and the
GOI five-year development plan (Repelita VI) in addressing basic services delivery capacities and
developing local government capacities to plan, budget and implement such investments on a decentralized
basis with minimal guidance from central GOI. The project was largely viewed as a "repeater" in the sense
that the methodologies and procedures for the project would essentially continue the generally successful
EJBUDP processes, but with a stronger emphasis on institutional development at local level.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No formal revision of the project objectives was ever agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
However, in the wake of the economic crisis it was agreed that the flexible structure of this project should
be used to help mitigate the impact of the economic crisis and to promote good governance.
Operationally, this is reflected in four additional programs which are listed in section 3.4.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
Component A: Infrastructure Works
Water Supply. This component consisted of increasing service connections and reticulation coverage in
32 urban areas. Some 102,000 new customers were to be connected to piped water. More than 1300 kmn
of secondary and tertiary piping were to be installed. The project was also to rehabilitate older service
systems installed by the Dutch before World War II. Storage reservoirs were to be provided in 20 towns to
improve capacity and water pressure.
Urban Roads and Traffic Management. The project was to provide for a program of road
improvements, road rehabilitation and maintenance totaling more than 900 km and for the construction of
two new by-pass roads.
Solid Waste Management (SWM). This component was to address SWM issues in at least 44 towns by
providing increased collection coverage and developing a number of solid waste disposal sites as sanitary
landfills. The sanitary landfills would be developed together with sludge disposal plants to treat septic
tank effluent. Equipment to be procured included bulldozers, dump trucks, containers, arm roll trucks,
compactor trucks and hand carts.
Human Waste Disposal/Sanitation. This sub-component was to provide expanded service coverage and
improved treatment and disposal for human waste. This was to be achieved through additional sludge
trucks for the emptying of private septic tanks, through the construction of two community based sewer
pipe net-work systems including treatment plants in Malang City and in six other towns, and through the
construction of septic sludge treatment plants which would typically be integrated with sanitary landfills.
Drainage/Flood Control. This component included the rehabilitation and improvement of primary and
secondary drainage canals, normalization of river banks and deferred and incremental O&M channels.
KIP/MIIP. This component would improve conditions in over 200 poor neighborhoods encompassing
approximately 2700 ha. This would be done by providing footpaths, drainage, sanitation improvements,
water supply, road construction and community participation. Markets infrastructure improvements would
also be made.
Urban Renewal. The city of Malang included sub-projects to improve approximately 10 ha of riverbank
flood plain, and to undertake development of a 10 ha sites and services project with preparation of a 5 ha
resettlement housing site. Approximately 6000 persons were to be affected.
This component also provided detailed engineering design and construction supervision for the above
works.
Component B: Institutional Capacity Development
Strengthening local institutions. This sub-component was to include support to the implementation of the
Local Institutions Development Action Plans (LIDAPs) which had been part of the PJMs (Medium Term
Action Plans).
Increasing local governments' revenues. This sub-component was to support the relevant unit in
provincial government in assisting local governments in the identification and effective tapping of potential
- 3-



tax sources under their jurisdiction.
Establishing of a performance oriented 0 & M management system. This sub-component was to
further develop the successful initiative of the EJBUDP so that local governments could budget for 0 & M
expenditures on the basis of solid data and of systematic, pro-active planning.
Component C: Preparation of Strategic Development Program
This component was to lay the conceptual groundwork for an integrated urban-regional development
strategy for East Java, by expanding the "classic IUIDP approach" 1/ regionally, sectorally, and
institutionally.
As noted above, this definition of project scope was viewed by both GOI and the Bank as the logical
continuation of the EJBUDP program and not particularly innovative or experimental. The participation of
the City of Malang, East Java's second largest city, was by far the largest local program proposed and was
considered the most notable feature of the appraised program.
3.4 Revised Components:
In connection with the efforts to mitigate the impact of the economic crisis, and related socio-political
instability, job creation and improved govemance became priority considerations for local govemments'
annual programs. The project enabled the following programs in addition to the original sub-components:
*      a program of small, labor intensive projects, to help reduce the rapidly rising unemployment caused
by the economic crisis,
*      support to PDAMs in their efforts to recover from the economic crisis, and to pursue structural
reforms as a step toward good corporate govemance (the PDAM Rescue Program),
*      two incentive programs for local govemments, in the form of budget for additional projects for
well-performiing local governments, as a support to good govemance, and
*      support to a program for improved administrative service delivery by local govemments (the UPT
Development Program), as a support to good govemance.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The QAG did not exist at the time of board presentation. Quality at entry is deemed to have been
satisfactory because of the attention to detail and the careful assessments of institutional capacities, and
because of the clear priority attached to the project by GOI, the province, and local govemments. The
preparation of this project was taken by all parties as an opportunity to improve, streamline and strengthen
the IUIDP process and procedures. The updated program manual included clarifications to sub-project
design guidance, streamlined O&M programming (simplified POMMS), strengthened safeguards reviews
and procdures (particularly for EA screening and for land aquisition/resettlement), as well as a
much-improved financial management and monitoring system (PFAMS). The lessons of experience with
EJBUDP were fully reflected in these improvements, and provided a project design which both GOI and the
Bank regarded as a significant improvement over earlier IUIDP programs.
1/ The term "classic IUIDP approach" is to mean an infrastructure development strategy focusing on urban areas,
focusing on the seven sub-sectors water supply, urban roads, drainage, sanitation, solid waste management,
KIP, and MIIP (excluding airports, ports, terminals, railway stations, telecommunication facilities, electricity
and fuel supply, etc.), and largely limited to government agencies and government owned business entities as
main actors.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project objectives is assessed, separately for the four operational objectives (three
original, one additional), as follows:
(a) the provision of urban infrastructure facilities and services has no doubt improved markedly as a result
of the project. The targets set out in the SAR and in the subsequent APIPs have been largely achieved. In
the water supply sector, far fewer house connections than planned have been funded from the loan, but
PDAMs have made house connections from their own funds, in a number that nearly matches the SAR
target. A distinct over-achievement of the SAR targets is registered in the sectors for drainage and KIP /
MIIP. The outcome in the water supply sector in Kabupaten Sidoarjo and Malang City is nil, however, and
the outcome for the other sectors in Kabupaten Sidoarjo is small, because the participation of these two
water utilities and of local government of Kabupaten Sidoarjo was discontinued in 1998 (see also section
5.3 and Additional Annex 16).
Intensive surveys and analyses for Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (PBME) have been
conducted in nine selected towns. They are: Tuban, Tulungagung, Lumajang, Lamongan, Pacitan, Malang,
Jember, Banyuwangi, and Sumenep, representing the project area. Their results suggest that the outcome of
the project has been generally satisfactory, with the new infrastructure being adequately used. Some of the
main findings are:
*      in the water supply sector, domestic service coverage has increased from 33% to 43%,
non-domestic service coverage from 77% to 92%, and water consumption has increased by a margin of 9%
to 38% (except in Lumajang);
*      in the urban roads sector, the percentage of roads in good condition has increased from 86% to
98%, and average vehicle operating costs have decreased by 3%;
*      as a result of improved drainage, flooding problems have-decreased in frequency, area, duration,
and severity, all by a factor three to four;
*      in solid waste management, domestic service coverage has increased from 80% to 87%,
non-domestic service coverage from 76% to 95%, transport capacity has increased from 68% to 82% of
generated waste, and landfill sites can absorb 97% of the generated waste;
*      in the sanitation sector, the provision of facilities has improved markedly but their utilization is
often below expectations;
*      improvements of kampungs (poor neighborhoods) and markets have covered 1,457 hectares.
(b) the capabilities of provincial and local governments to design and implement urban infrastructure
development programs have increased. The delegation of primary implementation responsibility to
provincial government was a challenge, but the provincial management units have fulfilled their task well,
especially in view of the many unforeseen problems caused by the economic crisis. Local governments have
generally fulfilled their tasks reasonably well, in terms of physical development including more transparent
procurement and in terms of revenue improvement, under sometimes difficult circumstances. O&M,
however, is still not managed in a very systematic and pro-active manner but rather in an ad-hoc manner
-5 -



and depending on the availability of funds. Outcomes under this objective are generally considered to be
satisfactory.
Despite the economic crisis, the increase in local revenue has been encouraging in most local governments,
indicating successful implementation of the RIAPs. Nominally, revenues have increased steadily since FY
1995/96. In real terms, however, revenues of most local governments show an increase from FY 1995/96
through FY 1997/98, then a sharp drop, caused by the extraordinary inflation of about 84.8% in FY
1998/99, then a gradual rise again. Since FY 1998/99, 31 out of 36 local governments have achieved more
than 10% average annual revenue increase in real terms, the average being 18%. For more details, see
Annex 10.
(c) the preparation of a comprehensive follow-on program has not progressed as much as had been hoped
and must be considered unsatisfactory. Provincial priorities appear to be more focused on attempts to
develop Madura Island and the southem part of East Java as the two most pronounced regional poverty
pockets. Also, in 1998 Bappenas expressed its objection to the preparation of a follow-on program as long
as the implementation of the other components of the EJUDP II remained unsatisfactory. From early 1999
onward, PPMO worked intensively toward the objectives of Component C, prepared a strategy paper and
discussed it with Bappenas and with the Bank. Further initiatives followed but hit snags such as unresolved
questions of funding (the envisaged Japanese grant to support the preparation of a follow-on program had
expired on March 31, 1999) and of timing (by then, March 31, 2000 was to be the loan closing date). For
more details, see Additional Annex 15. Also, it appears that neither the leadership of Bappeprop nor higher
provincial authorities really supported the preparation of an integrated urban-regional development strategy
as envisaged in the SAR.
In view of this, Bappeprop attempted in early 2001 to get at least some geographically and sectorally
limited action programs defined, either a program based on the Brantas River Water Quality Management
Study which had been prepared under the Surabaya UDP (Ln. 3726-IND), or a regional solid waste
management program based on cooperation between Surabaya City, Kabupaten Sidoarjo, and Kabupaten
Gresik. However, neither initiative yielded a tangible result.
(d) the success of the four additional components listed in section 3.4 has been positive to varying degrees.
The labor intensive program no doubt quickly created additional jobs but was discontinued in late 1998,
mainly because meanwhile the Indonesian Social Safety Net Program and IDA's Urban Poverty Project
(Cr. 3210-IND) had been launched to pursue the same objective. The effective launching of the
ASEM-funded PDAM Rescue Program was very much delayed, and little more than a problem analysis
and the preparation of recovery action plans for a limited number of PDAMs could be completed before the
end of the project, although US$3 million had been reserved for this program. The two incentive programs
were successfully implemented and are regarded as effective stimulants for local governments to improve
urban management and project procurement The UPT Development Program has shown some success,
though less than may have been expected.
All in all, the achievement of the project's objectives is rated as satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
COMPONENT A: INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS
Of all sub-components of Component A, the sub-component for water supply suffered the biggest
- 6-



setbacks, with four envisaged SLAs not materializing, including the two biggest ones, namely for PDAM of
Malang City (Rp. 33.2 billion, equivalent to approx. US$ 14.7 million at the exchange rate used in the
SAR) and for PDAM of Kabupaten Sidoarjo (Rp. 13.3 billion, equivalent to approx. US$ 5.9 million at
the exchange rate used in the SAR). Details of this development are described in Additional Annex 16.
Furthermore, the SLAs for the water supply sub-component did not materialize in Kabupaten Sampang, in
Kabupaten Pame-kasan, and in Kabupaten Bondowoso, Kabupaten Malang, and Kabupaten Nganjuk.
Together, these SLAs would have amounted to Rp. 53.5 billion, equivalent to approx. US$ 23.7 million at
the exchange rate used in the SAR, or approx. 52% of the amount which the SAR had allocated to the
water supply sub-component). However, both Kabupaten Sampang and Kabupaten Pamekasan
implemented small water supply programs under grant funding (BPDP in Kabupaten Sampang, and
Incentive Program Phase I in Kabupaten Pame-kasan), and PDAM of Kabupaten Bangkalan initiated a
SLA which had not been envisaged in the SAR, amounting to Rp. 0.8 billion. With this, 25 PDAMs
eventually participated in the water supply sub-component of the EJUDP II. 75 contract packages with a
total financial volume of Rp. 72.7 billion were implemented. The SAR had envisaged that 25% of the total
project cost would be for the water supply sub-component but in reality it was only 8%. Overall this
sub-component achieved unsatisfactory results.
In the original APIPs for FY 1999/2000 two major water supply programs had been proposed, namely for
Kabupaten Trenggalek and Kediri City. The financial volume of these proposals far exceeded the figures
indicated in the SAR, and the Bank demanded that these two proposals be subjected to thorough feasibility
studies. These studies eventually concluded that both programs should be substantially reduced in scope.
The so-reduced programs were then implemented in FY 2000 and FY 2001. In Kabupaten Magetan, too,
the water supply program was implemented only in FY 2001. The number of house connections funded
from the loan remained far below the projections of the SAR. This was mainly caused by a general
directive of the DG Cipta Karya (the Executing Agency at the beginning of the project) which said that
loan funds were not to be used for this purpose. Specific-ally for the EJUDP II, the use of loan funds for
the installation of house connections was permitted, though (see aide memoire of the November 1999
supervision mission, para 15).
It is remarkable that despite the serious setbacks mentioned above the water supply sub-component of the
project reached a substantial portion of the technical targets indicated in the SAR. Several major water
supply programs had failed to materialize, but there was substantial over-attainment of the SAR targets in
the remaining other water supply programs.
Less positive was the outcome of the project's efforts to help the PDAMs become commercially viable
water supply utilities. From the outset of the project it had been recognized that this objective could only be
achieved if water tariffs were raised significantly, and this was incorporated in the loan covenants.
However, falling real average household incomes in the wake of the economic crisis caused mounting
socio-political resistance to such tariff increases. As a result, only 13 PDAMs actually adjusted their water
tariffs between 1997 and December 2001, and even in those PDAMs the base water price is mostly still
less than Rp. 500 per m3. Most PDAMs are in a precarious financial situation: only 3 PDAMs have in the
last 3 years consistently registered profits after depreciation, and only 2 PDAMs have in the last 2 years
shown Debt Coverage Ratios of more than 1.5. All PDAMs encountered rapidly rising production costs
(especially for electricity and for chemicals) but simultaneous sociopolitical resistance to necessary tariff
adjustments.
Enlargement of the customer base and reduction of water losses are urgently required in nearly all PDAMs.
In some areas the easy availability of good groundwater constitutes a serious "competition" to the PDAMs.
The tapping of such groundwater resources often requires little more than human labor, and the opportunity
- 7 -



cost of human labor has decreased significantly since the economic crisis, whilst the real production costs
of the PDAMs have in fact increased. The "cost gap" has therefore generally widened to the disadvantage
of the PDAMs. Furthermore, there are additional problems for some PD~AMs, such as poor and / or highly
fluctuating yields of water sources. Clearly, further investments in water supply will require careful
analysis of PDAM viability, including the full application of the effective demand analysis required in the
project manual/procedures.
The sub-component for urban roads eventually turned out to be the biggest under the project and was
generally satisfactory. The SAR had projected that 24% of the project cost would be in this sector but in
reality this increased to 39%. 304 contract packages with a total financial volume of Rp. 277.0 billion were
implemented, 16 of them by the provincial Dinas Bina Marga office. This sub-component included three
projects involving national roads which were implemented by the provincial Dinas Bina Marga office on
behalf of central government. They were the construction of new by-pass roads for the towns Nganjuk and
in Krian (Kabupaten Sidoarjo) and improvements to the existing by-pass road in Tuban. While the latter
two have been completed and are obviously of high benefit, the Nganjuk by-pass has remained uncompleted
(for details see Annex 16).
The road-and-bridge project Gadang-Bumiayu in Malang City encountered serious problems related to land
acquisition and resettlement, specifically in the Gadang wholesale market. A LARAP for the relocation of
more than 400 traders there was prepared and legalized, supported by serious efforts from PPMO and from
the Bank. However, that LARAP was not implemented consistently, and the Bank repeatedly voiced its
concerns. The project was physically completed, and Malang City assured the ICR mission of its
determination to complete the few still-outstanding components.
The construction of the eastern ring road for Sidoarjo failed to materialize because Kabupaten Sidoarjo
was suspended from the EJUDP II (see also section 5.3 and Additional Annex 16). Local government of
Kabupaten Sidoarjo is now trying to realize this project from its own resources.
The sub-component for drainage was the second biggest under the project in terms of financial volume
and was also generally satisfactory. The SAR had projected that about 16% of the total project cost would
be for this sub-component, but this increased to 21% in reality. 309 contract packages with a total financial
volume of Rp. 135.4 billion were implemented, including 15 projects implemented by Dinas Cipta Karya
and 7 projects implemented by Dinas Pengairan. In the original APIP for FY 1999 / 2000 there had been a
proposal for drainage works in Kabupaten Kediri (location Pare) whose financial volume far exceeded the
magnitude indicated in the SAR, but PPMO decided in March 1999 to reduce the volume of this proposal
to the scope envisaged in the SAR.
The sub-component for solid waste management retained more or less the percentage of loan funds as
had been projected in the SAR (planned as well as realized. 5% of total project cost). Results in most local
governments were satisfactory, with the notable exception of the City of Malang. 145 contract packages
with a total financial volume of Rp. 38.0 billion were implemented. Major civil works for the establishment
of landfill sites and the purchase of equipment for their operation were funded in several locations, such as
in Kabupaten Blitar (location Tegalasri near Wlingi), Kabupaten Probolinggo, Kabupaten Malang, and
Kabupaten Kediri. In Malang City, it had been planned to improve the Supit Urang landfill site, including
civil works and the procurement of equipment. Malang City was unable to complete the procurement of the
required equipment before the loan closing date, and this threatens the quality and sustainability of the
landfill investrnent However, promises to complete the procurement of necessary equipment were obtained
during the ICR Mission.
8-



The sub-component for sanitation and waste water management turned out to be much smaller in
relative financial volume than the SAR had projected (planned: 5% of total project cost; realized 2%) and
results must in aggregate be regarded as unsatisfactory. 66 contract packages with a total financial volume
of Rp. 16.0 billion were implemented. Despite the reduced scope, monitoring surveys conducted by PPMO
in 2000 and 2001 revealed that the program was apparently still over-sized compared to the real demand
for services in this sector. This resulted in many installations, notably sludge trucks and septic sludge
treatment plants (IPLT), being grossly under-utilized if not completely idle. Community resistance is often
encountered in locations where septic sludge treatment plants were proposed. Therefore such plants are
often integrated into solid waste landfill sites. Notwithstanding the general need to improve sanitation,
intensive community awareness and public education campaigns are required to make projects in this
sub-sector more effective, beneficial, and financially self-sustaining. Also, there is a need to complement
the construction of physical installations by staff training, to provide a better legal basis for the operation
of facilities (e.g. regional regulations, Peraturan Daerah), and to increase the participation of the affected
households (both those benefiting from new facilities and those in the vicinity of sludge treatment
installations).
The outcome of the pilot project for modular sewerage systems in Malang City (location Mergosono /
Ciptomulyo) was somewhat disappointing. That project had been modeled along the lines of a successfully
implemented community based sewerage system in the same city, but it turned out to be beset by
contractual problems, social probiems caused by insufficient community participation in the planning stage
and compounded by a reportedly unprofessional project management by the contractor, poor standards of
civil works, and a lower-than-required number of functioning house connections at the end of the project.
Substantial additional efforts by Malang City will be required to make this project sustainable. The
negative experiences from this project caused PPMO to cancel a planned second, similar project in the
same city. Besides that, this pilot project had been meant to be the first of a series of similar projects,
whereby the loan amount invested in this project would be considered a seed grant, and the house
connection fees collected in this pilot project would be set aside to form a revolving fund for future projects
of the same kind. Judging from information gathered so far, it appears questionable whether this financial
management model will prove workable, and the sustainability of this project and of the whole approach
seems still uncertain. On the positive side, it has been demonstrated that there is a significant degree of
awareness, and a substantial willingness to pay, among the intended beneficiaries, including the poor. More
details are given in Annex 16.
The sub-component for KIP and MIIP (excluding the labor intensive projects which are listed under this
sector in some tabulations) became smaller in reality than the SAR had projected (planned: 4% of total
project cost; realized: 3%). 109 contract packages with a total financial volume of Rp. 24.0 billion were
implemented, covering 1,457 hectares of KIP and 44 units of improved markets and are mostly
satisfactory.
In the sub-component for urban renewal, only I contract package worth Rp. 1.9 billion was implemented
in the Kutobedah area in Malang City. Original project plans had simply envisaged that the riverbank there
be cleared of houses and the inhabitants be relocated to more suitable areas. Later on, a more
comprehensive development master plan was prepared by Malang City. The preparation and legalization of
an appropriate LARAP turned out to be enormnously resource and time consuming, including for PPMO
and for the Bank. The eventual implementation of this project encountered many problems, and Malang
City was obviously negligent in the implementation of the LARAP which drew the increasingly critical
attention of the Bank. The project was not satisfactorily completed by the time of the ICR mission, but
Malang City assured the mission of its commitment to finalize the implementation of the LARAP. This
-9-



sub-component must be rated unsatisfactory based on the continuing difficulties in completing the
LARAP.
COMPONENT B: INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT
The overall outcome of this component is regarded as satisfactory, but its' impact limited to modest in
light of the many other factors influencing local government capacities in Indonesia during the project
period. A fairly wide variety of training courses for civil servants, mainly from local governments, was
conducted by the provincial training center in Surabaya with support from a consultant team and from the
project management units at provincial level (PPMO, PTCU, and PFCMU). Specialized training courses in
solid waste and waste water management were implemented by central government at the training center in
Bekasi, near Jakarta. Technical assistance assignments primarily aimed at supporting institutional
development were those for the development, operation, and propagation of a Project Financial Auditing
and Monitoring System (PFAMS), for Revenue Improvement Action Plan (RIAP) implementation support,
for the development of a Performance Oriented 0 & M Management System (POMMS), for Technical
Auditing and the development of Perfonnance Indicators, and for Advisory Services for Solid Waste
Management in Malang City. Also, the Greater Malang Urban Road Network Study and the Greater
Malang Traffic Management and Public Transport Study were chiefly meant to enable the involved
institutions to develop and implement better plans in the respective fields. See also sections 4.1 and 4.5.
COMPONENT C: PREPARATION OF STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
See section 4.1 Rating: Unsatisfactory
ADDITIONAL CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAMS.
The program of small, labor intensive ("Padat Karya") projects was unique insofar as it included
projects located in Kalimantan, i.e. outside East Java province. In January 1998, US$ 22.0 million of loan
funds in two new disbursement categories had been aside for this program, but the program was
discontinued in late 1998 because meanwhile the Indonesian Social Safety Net Program and the Bank
sponsored Urban Poverty Project had been launched to pursue similar poverty alleviation and employment
creation objectives, and altogether only Rp. 62.4 billion (equivalent to approx. US$ 6.3 million) was
disbursed for the 918 contract packages under this program. More details are given in Additional Annex
12. Rating: Satisfactory
A PDAM Rescue Program had been envisaged since 1998, with the objectives, to assist the PDAMs in the
immediate handling of the impact of the economic crisis, such as soaring costs, e.g. for chemicals and
electricity, and to address their fundamental, generic weaknesses, including idle production capacities, high
water losses, inadequate water tariffs, poor financial management, and over-staffing. It was envisaged that
the PDAMs participating in this program would be granted loans to optimize their technical operations and
maximize revenues, provided they had submitted convincing Financial Recovery Action Plans (FRAPs). To
finance such loans, the MoF set aside US$ 3.0 million from Loan No. 4017-IND in early 2001. Until the
end of 2001, action plans were indeed prepared, and their gradual implementation was monitored by the
Bank with assistance from provincial government. However, no loans to PDAMs were granted, and the
US$ 3.0 million budgeted for this program have remained completely unutilized. More details are given in
Annex 12. Rating: Satisfactory, but very limited results to date.
In an effort to promote good governance, the Incentive Program Phase I was conceived in early 1998, and
- 10 -



a budget of US$ 2.0 million was set aside for it. The program was to reward local governments that had
shown good performance in urban management with additional physical projects of their own choice. These
projects would be 100% loan funded under a grant to local govemments. The winning 11 local
governments eventually implemented 61 contract packages worth Rp. 23.8 billion under this program,
largely focused on roads and drainage improvements. More details on this program are given in Annex 13.
Rating: Satisfactory
Following the positive assessment of the Incentive Program Phase I, GOI and the Bank agreed to launch an
Incentive Program Phase H with identical disbursement conditions in 1999, to reward local governments
that had shown a high degree of transparency in project procurement. US$1.0 million was budgeted, and
the winning 3 local governments eventually implemented 12 contract packages worth Rp. 8.2 billion for
additional local infrastructure under this program. More details are given in Annex 13. Rating:
Satisfactory
The UPT Development Program had been launched by the MoHA independently from the EJUDP II. This
program seeks to establish simplified one-stop service systems for the documents and pernits frequently
required by the public and by the business community. During the July 1999 supervision mission, the Bank
agreed to support this program in East Java from Loan No. 4017-IND. This support began in late 1999
and intensified in the following year when 14 local governments were identified as the definite participants
of this program. A detailed strategy and implementation mechanism were developed by a special team at
provincial level and approved by the Bank in late 2000, and loan closing date was extended for a second
time. The program has been fairly successful in four local governments, and partially successful in another
six local governments. More details are given in Additional Annex 13. To date the overall rating must be
unsatisfactory, but with the understanding the the province and local governments are continuing to work.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR establishes Rp. 500 million and Rp. 2 billion (in constant 1994 prices) as the cost threshold levels
which separate small, medium-sized, and large subprojects for which different methods of economic
analysis are to be applied. The project design required full feasibility studies and economic analysis on
"large" subprojects costing more than Rp. 2 billion, with smaller works being assumed feasible if
established design criteria were followed. With the observed general inflation rates, the current threshholds
are equivalent to approx. Rp. 1.3 billion and Rp. 5.2 billion in 1999 prices. By this standard, there only
three large projects under the EJUDP II, namely the incomplete by-pass road for Nganjuk, the by-pass road
for Krian, and the water supply program in Kabupaten Tulungagung (contracted in 3 packages). ERR
analysis for the Krian by-pass was reviewed by the ICR mission and found to be acceptable with a base
case return of more than 30% (see Annex 3 for a summary of this analysis and the Tulungagung FIRR
analysis).
In its' ICR, GOI presents ERR figures for major projects (with contract values greater dtan Rp. 400
million) in the sectors urban roads and drainage in the nine sample towns (see section 4.1). GOI's ICR
states an average ERR of 19% for urban road projects and of 17% for drainage projects in the nine sample
towns, which is higher than the 12% threshold which the SAR had used as cut-off level for acceptable
projects. The ICR mission discussed these findings with the PPMO and consulting team and found the
results reasonable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The biggest water supply project and only one requiring full FIRR analysis was in Kabupaten
- 1 1 -



Tulungagung (a "large" project according to the classification found in the SAR). The ICR team has
estimated the FIRR for PDAM Tulungagung to be 12.7% under the currently constrained financial
environment, with good prospects for improved performance as the economy recovers. (see Annex 3 for a
summary of this analysis). The GOI ICR document evaluates 9 PDAMs and finds FIRRs on subproject
investments range from 13-29% based on reasonable assumptions regarding operations costs and tarriff
increases.However, with no changes in financial parameters, returns could be as low as 2%. Admittedly,
the late physical completion of the water supply projects makes the gathering and analysis of actual
revenue data difficult.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
A significant institutional development impact had been achieved in many local governments, mainly as a
result of the challenge and responsibility allocated to them in the project, of the guidance extended to them
by provincial units, of intensive technical assistance rendered by consultant teams, and of classroom
training conducted either in the field (through formal project management courses) or in the provincial
training center which was supported in this activity by the project. However, extensive re-organizations and
staff re-assignments in early 2001, in the course of the implementation of Indonesia's ambitious
decentralization program, have to a certain extent disrupted established work units and procedures again.
Thus, the overall impact of the project must be rated as modest.
At provincial level, the institutional development impact has been most pronounced at PPMO, also PTCU,
and to a lesser degree PFCMU. The experience and competence of these units has increased markedly,
mainly as a result of the challenge and responsibility allocated to them in the project, of intensive technical
assistance rendered by consultant teams, and, in some cases, of formal training.
The central Executing Agency is gradually adapting to its new role as a primarily policy-making body, as
opposed to the project implementation role it had in earlier years, and the implementation design adopted
for this project has been a significant factor in providing an example of how this process can function.
Most of the technical assistance rendered to central level agencies was intended to support decentralized
processes.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Indonesia's economic and fiscal crisis, which began in 1997, has had several profound impacts on the
project Some of them are described in Additional Annex 11. The trigger of the crisis was an extra-ordinary
devaluation of the Rupiah against hard currencies, from about US$ 1 = Rp. 2,400 in mid- 1997, to US$ 1 =
Rp. 15,000 in early January 1998, and to around US$ I = Rp. 10,000 from 1999 through 2001 (May
2002: US$ I = Rp. 9,200). This shift of exchange rate caused the loan amount to become significantly
over-sized in comparison with the Rupiah denominated implementation program. On the other hand, the
extra-ordinary domestic inflation during 1998 caused the Rupiah denominated budgets to become
significantly under-sized in comparison with the actual cost of the agreed-upon physical implementation
program. In addition, GOI was forced to reduce the provision of counterpart funds, and to request
increased disbursement percentages from loan funds. All, these develop-ments required intensive adjustment
efforts, including two partial canceliations of loan funds, a change of disbursement percentages, and a
thorough revision of numerous contract packages.
The crisis also resulted in soaring unemployment, which the project in 1998 tried to mitigate to some extent
through the launching of a program for small, simple, labor intensive projects, following a re-structuring of
- 12 -



the loan amount in January 1998. This increase in unemployment caused a dramatic increase in poverty,
which GOI and the Bank have tackled through the Urban Poverty Project since 1998. Lastly, the economic
crisis also exposed glaring structural weaknesses in the water supply utilities (PDAMs), triggering
immediate preparations for a nation-wide PDAM Rescue Program which was eventually launched in 2001.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The principal decision to delegate the primary implementation responsibility to the province can in
hindsight be assessed as prudent and beneficial for the project The province has managed the project fairly
well, considering the difficult external circumstances and unforeseen developments.
The previous Department of Public Works was restructured twice, out of political considerations: in 1999
it was split into a State Ministry of Public Works and a Department of Human Settlements and Regional
Development, but in 2000 the two units were merged again to become the Department of Human
Settlements and Regional ifrastructure. The resulting disruptions have had some negative impact on the
project (4 different Directors General and 4 different Directors were in charge of the project during its
implementation). The local tax restructuring effected by Law No. 18 / 1997 had a temporary negative
impact on the revenues of local govemments, as they lost some of their established and lucrative tax bases,
while they were not immediately able to fully tap the potential of other tax bases allocated to them in
compensation.
The policy of decentralization which was authorized with Law No. 22/ 1999 and Law No. 25 / 1999, and
whose implementation began in earnest in January 2001, has had some negative impact on the project,
because local governments paid a good deal of their attention to the process of internal restructuring, and
established working units were often disrupted. This has affected the project in its last year.
The additional component "Support to the UPT Development Program" was included upon initiative of the
MoHA, as it is outside the scope of IUIDP programs proper. For more details, see Additional Annex 13.
The inclusion of this component was one of the main factors in the decision to extend the loan closing date
for a second time, from 31 March 2001 to 31 December 2001.
On the other hand, it was decided that emphatic efforts toward local institution building (such as the
implementation of Local istitutions Development Action Plans = LIDAPs) should be undertaken not so
much in the context of the EJUDP II but rather in the context of another, ADB funded project, the Capacity
Building for Urban Infrastructure Management (CBUIM) Project which was launched in 2001.
S.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The scope of the EJUDP II was reduced substantially by all local govenmments in response to the crisis and
more specifically by the actions of two implementing agencies. The PDAM of Kabupaten Sidoarjo
embarked on a PSP scheme based on an unsolicited proposal under procedures that forced the suspension
of both the PDAM and local government of Kabupaten Sidoarjo from the EJUDP II, as declared by
Bappenas in July 1998. Furthermore, the PDAM of Malang City declared its withdrawal from the EJUDP
II in November 1998. For more details regarding these two particular issues, see Annex 16. More
information regarding the performance of the implementing agencies in general is given in section 7.6).
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
According to the provincial accounting system (PFAMS), a total of Rp. 894.9 billion was disbursed for the
-13 -



project, including Rp. 309.2 billion of Indonesian funds. Expenditures to be funded from the loan amounted
to a total of Rp. 585.7 billion, equivalent to US$ 76.2 million. This would represent 65% of the project
cost, while the SAR had envisaged that the loan would cover 58% of the total project cost. This shift was
caused by the introduction of several additional programs. which were 100% loan funded, and by an
increase in the loan funding percentage for civil works and technical assistance. The average exchange rate
between Rupiah and US$ was US$ I = Rp. 7,656 during the project implementation period which is
approx. 3.4 times higher than the assumption in the SAR (US$ I = Rp. 2,260). The cost structure of real
expenditures during the project's implementation tumed out to be very much different from the cost
structure originally envisaged in the SAR in the original Loan Agreement, and even different from the
repeated Amendments to the Loan Agreement, as agreed upon between GOI and the Bank.
There is, however, a considerable discrepancy between the PFAMS figures and the sum of the
disbursement applications subrnitted by the MoF to the Bank. The sum of the disbursement applications
accepted by the Bank is US$ 73.4 million. With this, there is an undisbursed balance of approx. US$ 8.8
million left at the end of the project. This undisbursed balance is the result of mainly three factors: (i)
documents amounting to a total of approx. US$ 2.3 million were not submitted for disbursement, and in
addition an amount of approx. US$ 0.5 rnillion was declared ineligible by the Bank, (ii) the MoF did not at
all utilize the amount of US$ 3.0 million which it had allocated under this loan for the PDAM Rescue
Program, and (iii) the assumed average exchange rate of US$ 1 = Rp. 7,800 for the disburse-ments during
the last year of the project, a crucial assumption for projected disbursement in US$, was unrealistic, with
an error margin of approx. 20%.
Table 1: Loan Fund Structure by Disbursement Category in the Loan Agreement, in Subsequent
Amendments, and in Actual Disbursement
Disbursement Category               Loan Fund Allocation I Disbursement in USS million
Orlginal  Amend.                    ~~~~~Amend-
OigInal   Amendt  Amendment Reallocation  Amend-  ment to   Actual
LAgemnt   menAt     to LA     by MoU   ment to LA  LA      Disburse-
Sept 1996  Jan. 1998  Aug. 1998  Nov. 1998  March 2000 March 200  ment
Civil Works - SLA  1(a)   41.400    41.400    25.700    5.100      6.700    6.500     6.095
Civil Works - non SLA  1(b)  45.700  23.700   23,700    72.600    58.500    49,600   46.215
Goods- SLA         2(a)   26.100    26.100    16.100     1.900     2.300    1.500      447
Goods - non SLA    2(b)   11.000    11.000    11.000     3.500     3.000    2.600     1.847
Consultants Central  3(a)  2.300     2.300    2.300      2.300     2.300    2.300     1.924
Gov't.
Consultants East Java  3(b)  16.200  16.200   16.200    11.600     7.800    10.200    7.156
Padat Karya East Java  4(a)  -      15.000    15.000    15.000     4.000    6.400     5.858
Padat Karya Kalimantan 4(b)  -      7.000     7.000      5.000     5.100    3.100     3.854
Total Loan Amount        142.700   142.700   117.000   117.000    89.700    82.200   73.396
- 14 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefir sustainability rating:
The ICR mission believed that the appropriate rating for the project's overall sustainability is uncertain.
However, as this rating is no longer an option under the revised ICR guidelines the project has been rated
as likely to be sustainable, but this rating must be conditioned upon the continuation of the very ambitious
GOI decentralization initiative and related local instisutional strengthening and clarification of local
regulatory frameworks. Among the positive aspects from the project is the fact that most of the physical
investment program was completed in a satisfactory manner and has resulted in improved service delivery.
This concerns especially the sectors KIP, MIIP, urban roads, drainage, solid waste management, and water
supply, the latter subject to the PDAMs ability to maintain a sustainable mode of operation. With a more
decentralized government, it can be hoped that local governments will now pay sufficient attention to the
necessary 0 & M for these investments, and with the assistance of the RIAP components most localities
appear to have the revenue base for basic O&M. On the other hand, the sustainability of many investments
in the sanitation sector seems rather unlikely, at least as long as public awareness remains at the current,
very low level. Amongst others, the sustainability of the pilot project Modular Sewerage
Mergosono/Ciptomulyo will depend on additional interventions, and most PDAMs urgently require a tariff
increase for sustainability.
Under institutional aspects, the implementation of the RIAPs has been encouragingly successful, in view of
the difficult circumstances caused by the economic crisis, but the persistent lack of a systematic approach
to an integrated 0 & M management in nearly all local governments is disappointing; i.e. the POMMS
approach to O&M programming is not being continued in most local govemments. The project experience
gained by many relevant government officials, especially at provincial and local level, complemented by
formal training, is likely to increase the institutional competence of their organizations substantially and
sustainably, which will benefit possible future, similar programs.
The non-attainment of the objectives of Component C (see section 3.3) is irrelevant in the sense that it does
not affect the sustainability of the other components.
With regard to the additional programs (see sections 3.4 and 4.2), the success of the UPT Development
Prograrn in East Java has been mixed, with some UPTs still in early stages of development, but others now
functioning fairly well and in an apparently sustainable manner. While the ASEM grant was closed in
March 2002, the implementation of the PDAM Rescue Program is still underway with GOI support, and its
eventual sustainability cannot yet be assessed. The eventual success or failure of this program, the success
or failure of the adaptation and reformation processes of the PDAMs in general, and the degree of political
support to PDAMs by local governments and local councils will decide whether or not the PDAMs will
prospects of sustainable and financially self-supporting operations in the future, which would be a
prerequisite for further financial assistance, including the Bank's proposed Water Supply and Sanitation
APL operation for Indonesia.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
During the ICR mission, agreement was reached between the Bank, GOI, and Malang City that Malang
City must guarantee the implementation of corrective action, to rectify the long-standing deficiencies in the
implementation of the LARAPs for the projects Urban Renewal Kutobedah and Road-and-bridge
Gadang-Bumiayu, as well as the deficiencies in the Modular Sewerage Project Mergosono / Ciptomulyo.
GOI itself must guarantee the completion of the unfinished northern ring road for Nganjuk town. The
PDAM Rescue Program, currently under implementation, is to address the fundamental structural
weaknesses of the PDAMs, in order to enable them to function as sustainable water supply operators.
- 15 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the lending operation is rated as satisfactory. As noted earlier, this preparation
effort largely focused on using the lessons of experience gained from EBTBUDP implementation to
strengthen, streamline and simplify the GOI IUIDP model. The most distinguishing feature of the
preparation was the very participatory approach followed by the Province and the Bank, with extensive
consultations being held with local governments on key features and proposed changes. Perhaps the most
difficult aspect of the preparation was the introduction of the (then) new Bank guidelines for land aquisition
and involuntary resettlement, particularly in light of the fact that several aspects of the Bank's guidelines
were inconsistent with prevailing GOI law and regulations. As preliminary discussions in Jakarta revealed
GOrs unwillingness to quickly change the national policy framework, this required the development of an
adequate land aquisition and resettlement policy for East Java which would then be promulgated to all local
govermments by a decree of the provincial Governor. Completion of this policy framework and issuance of
the Govemor's decree was successful, but was one of the delaying factors between project approval and
effectiveness nearly 7 months later. However, most of the revised project procedures were designed to
provide "user-friendly" simplifications to previous processes, including annual program preparation and
simplified O&M budgets. While the project has received some criticism for its complexity, it is difficult to
evaluate the relative impacts of attempting a comprehensive assistance program and the effects of the crisis
and the many complexities it imposed on all project participants. The ICR mission and the provincial
officials it met were generally inclined to attribute much of the reason for the problems which arose to
being the results of th crisis, and generally had praise for the flexibility and potential responsiveness of the
project design to deal with such completely unexpected conditions as arose from 1997 in attempting to
implement this program. However, it does appear that the implementing agencies' capacities to undertake
such a big and comprehensive program quickly and in line with all relevant regulations had been somewhat
over-estimated.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank organized the Project Launch seminars for this project in May 1996 as a major training event for
the participating local governments, including project managers, treasurers, procurement teams and
safeguard personnel. A total of 12 Bank staff and many provincial personnel who had assisted the
preparation as part of the PPMO for the preceding EJBUDP conducted three days of workshops and
seminars for project staff and the Mayors/Bupatis from all participating jurisdictions. With more than 400
participants the project launch of this project was the largest attempted by the Bank prior to that time.
The initial supervision mission was a limited review of project mobilization and initial procurement shortly
after project effectiveness in December 1996. To the dismay of mission members and provincial staff, it
became obvious that requirement to utilize standard procurement and contract documents, and to have the
first contracts by each implementing unit be reviewed by the Bank to assure compliance, had not been
followed or understood by the local government implmenting units. It fact, serious questions were raised
regarding the transparency and validity of the contracting processes employed by many of the implementing
units. On this basis the Bank refused to finance 56 contracts from various implementing units accross the
province, and the resulting turmoil effectively limited project achievement during the remainder of the GOI
fiscal year (through March 1997). However, these events served as an effect reminder to the local unit that
the Bank was increasingly serious about enforcing irnproved procurement practices in our projects, and no
further major procurement problems were experienced during the course of this project. The Barik's
supervision missions repeatedly involved the Indonesian Contractors' Association ("Gapensi') in the efforts
- 16 -



to propagate more competitive and transparent project procurement.
The Bank's performance in supervision is rated as satisfactory. Continuity of task management in the
Bank was not optimal, with a transfer of responsibility from the first TTL (who had also been the leader of
the appraisal mission) to his successor, another member of the appraisal mission, in March 1997, four
months after loan effectiveness. In May 2000, responsibility was handed over to a new TTL who was
simultaneously TTL of the Surabaya UDP (IBRD LN. 3726-IND). In September 2001, responsibility
reverted back to the first TTL. Despite this, an acceptable degree of continuity in substance could still be
maintained, because of the intensive involvement of staff from WBOJ, and because of the active
participation of GOI, especially of provincial government, in the monitoring and supervision mechanisms.
The Bank conducted 12 supervision missions during the project's duration (60 months), i.e. on the average
a mission every five months, during the first three years even every four months (the SAR had envisaged a
mission every six months on the average). Details are shown in Annex 4. Aide memoires of all supervision
missions were prepared, discussed with GOI before the end of each mission, and reviewed and evaluated at
the beginning of the following supervision mission. The very active participation especially of provincial
government rendered these missions generally fairly fruitful. In addition, there gradually developed a
regular information exchange and an improved coordination between provincial government and the Bank.
The difficulties in implementing the new land aquisition and resettlement procedures in Malang provided an
excellent test of the strengthened guidelines and proved to be a learning experience for all involved (see
Annex 16 for additional detail on this matter).
The actual disbursement of loan funds was much slower than expected, for several reasons. One reason
was the dramatic shift in the exchange rate between the Rupiah and the US Dollar, which caused the loan
amount to become significantly over-sized in comparison with the Rupiah denominated implementation
program. There were also delays in procurement, caused by delayed release of funds by central government
and, specially for FY 1997/98, by the adjustments needed as a result of the extraordinary domestic
inflation.
The flexibility and creativeness displayed in the Bank's responses to the crisis has drawn praise from many
quarters, and the project team deserves much credit for responsiveness and innovation in assisting East
Java to deal with the many issues arising from the multiple impacts of the crisis on the original program, as
discussed in Annexes 11-13 which include a review of both the positive and negative aspects of the
project's and the Bank's responses to the unprecedented dimensions of the Indonesian crisis which is still
affecting many aspects of Indonesian life.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance in this project is rated as satisfactory, both in lending and in supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated as satisfactorv. The adequacy of the project's
preparation is difficult to judge, considering the profound changes that have occurred in several fields
during the project's duration. It appears that the project, if held against a hypothetical "what-if-not"
scenario, had been prepared with due diligence and in a satisfactory quality. The project appears to have
been fairly well thought-out in terms of physical scope, of financial scope, and of principal institutional
- 17 -



arrangements. The institutional capacities to launch such a big and comprehensive program quickly and in
accordance with all relevant regulations may have been over-estimated, but there were no other obviously
unrealistic assumptions in the project plans.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Central government's perfonmance in project implementation is rated as satisfactory. The Executing
Agency has handled its tasks adequately, considering the fact that it only had an overall responsibility and
that primary implementation responsibility had been delegated to the province. The Executing Agency has
by and large adequately supported the province in the implementation of the project and in the various
adjustments which became necessary during the project's duration.
During the implementation of the project, there was a significant shift in the proportion of loan funding and
grant funding to local governments. In the original Loan Agreement, physical works were to be funded by
US$ 67.5 million in on-lending and US$ 56.7 million in grant funding; in the last Amendment to the Loan
Agreement, however, the amounts were changed to US$ 8.0 million in on-lending and US$ 52.2 million in
grant funding. For more details, see Table I on page 13. With this, central government has eventually
agreed to shoulder the main burden for the financing of the project.
In most fiscal years during the project's implementation, the release of central government grants (SPABP,
DA-DPD, DIPP) by the MoF was very much delayed and beset by administrative hurdles. This was a
generic problem not limited to the EJUDP II. It has adversely affected the implementation progress of
physical projects as well as of technical assistance, and thus the disbursement of loan funds. Similarly, the
processing of SLA applications at the MoF was rather time consuming and, -from local governments' point
of view, disappointingly cumbersome. Furthermore, the insufficient availability of counterpart funds from
central government was one of the main problems in the implementation of the by-pass road for Nganjuk
town.
Apart from that, the MoF and Bappenas have been very accommodating for the needs of the project,
especially in repeated changes to the loan amount, the loan structure, and the loan closing date.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agencies' performance in project implementation is all in all rated as satisfactory.
Provincial government has managed Component A of the project fairly effectively through its three working
units PPMO, PTCU, and PFCMU. These units have generally performed well in handling their respective
tasks, such as detailed annual planning on the basis of the SAR, regular reporting, and regular
implementation monitoring including Bank supervision missions. However, they have not established a
clear mechanism for the definition and monitoring of priority targets and performance indicators for local
govemments, nor systematically followed up the findings of the financial and technical audits. On the other
hand, the provincial level units, especially PPMO and PTCU, have to be credited with having handled a
very high worload, far in excess of the assumptions made during the project preparation. This includes the
enormous amount of adjustments which were suddenly required during the early phases of the economic
crisis, the repeated changes to the size and the structure of the loan, and the preparation, implementation,
and monitoring of several additional programs ( see below). The provincial level agencies Bappeprop and
Dinas Permukiman have made available substantial resources for the management of the project, including
the secondment of crucial staff from the latter to the first.
- 18 -



The implementing agencies (mostly local governments, but also some provincial agencies) have generally
implemented their physical projects (numbering more than 1,000) reasonably well, and there is only a
relatively small number of physical projects with grave deficiencies. A strikingly high number of them is to
be found in Malang City, namely the Urban Renewal Project Kutobedah, the Road-and-Bridge Project
Gadang-Bumiayu, the Modular Sewerage Project Mergosono / Ciptomulyo, and the procurement of civil
works and equipment for the new waste disposal site at Supit Urang. Another physical project with grave
problems is the as yet unfinished northern ring road for Nganjuk town, whose construction was managed by
the provincial Dinas Bina Marga office on behalf of central government. For more details, see Additional
Annex 16.
In Component B, the implementation of the LIDAPs was largely deferred and transferred to the ADB
funded CBUIM project (see section 5.2). In hindsight, this may turn out to be a more effective solution,
bearing in mind that many local institutions had been reorganized and their staff reassigned in early 2001.
Local governments' performance in increasing local revenue was generally satisfactory (see also section 4.1
and Additional Annex 10). Their performance is establishing a POMMS, however, was largely
unsatisfactory in the sense that they do provide funds for 0 & M but largely on an ad-hoc basis and
depending on the availability of residual funds from their development budgets, rather than on the basis of
solid data, systematic planning, and budgeting under the routine budget
The preparation of a follow-on program (Component C) has made only disappointingly poor progress, as a
result of various unfortunate circumstances but mainly as a result of political indifference on the part of
provincial government as a whole (neither Bappeprop alone, nor PPMO), and the performance of
provincial government in this component was clearly unsatisfactory.
In contrast to this, provincial government has all in all shown a satisfactory performance in the
management of the additional programs. Provincial government mobilized substantial additional resources
to handle the extra work required to prepare, implement, and monitor the labor intensive projects program,
the Incentive Programs Pbase I and Phase II, and the UPT Development Programn, and to support the
PDAM Rescue Program.
The performance of local governments is not be assessed on a one-by-one basis. PPMO has attempted to
analyze the performance of all participating local govenment in various fields, but a clear picture of
consistently well performing and consistently poorly performing local governments does not emerge. In
general, the perforrnance of local governments can be rated as satisfactory, with two notable exceptions.
The performance of local government of Kabupaten Sidoarjo can not be rated because it was suspended
from the EJUDP II in 1998. The performance of local government of Malang City is rated as
unsatisfactory, on the grounds of the numerous problems encountered during project implementation there
(for details see Annex 16), and of strong signs of lacking political commitment, such as insufficient
budgeting for land acquisition and resettlement, and a lack of follow-up to the specific studies that had been
undertaken for solid waste management and traffic related problems in Malang.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
With this, the Borrower's overall performance is rated as satisfactorv.
8. Lessons Learned
I.     The possibility of external shocks, and their likely impact on project implementation, should be
- 19 -



incorporated specifically in the risk analysis of future projects.
2.     The decentralized approach used in this project has proven superior to centralized management and
should be fostered and maintained wherever adequate human resources are available.
3.     GOI and provincial government should try to identify the main reasons for the generally
disappointing project implementation performance of Malang City, and draw conclusions for the future.
4. GOI, provincial government, and the Bank should cooperate in defining a strategy for future
financial assistance to East Java, to fit with GOI's and provincial priorities, and with the Bank's CAS.
5.     GOI and the Bank should try to identify a more promising approach in the sanitation sector,
because many investments made under this project do not seem to show the desired sustainability.
6.     GOI and the Bank should continue to cooperate in designing a viable water supply policy for
Indonesia, including the carefully monitoring of the institutional development of the PDAMs, and should
jointly decide on the appropriate criteria for defining of further financial assistance to them.
7.     GOI should design a simplified yet more stringent mechanism for the processing and
implementation of SLAs, with the intention to encourage local govemnments to borrow for necessary
investments.
8      GOI and provincial government should define more stringent mechanisms to ensure that audit
results are put to use and that loan covenants are adhered to.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
GOI-Ministry of Settlements and Regional hIfrastructure and East Java Province were given the
opportunity to review a draft of this ICR and both have submitted conmments attached as Annex 17.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no comments to this ICR from other parties. However, one should take note of the repeated
submissions of protests and / or critical reports which were submitted by individuals or by community
based organizations, mostly from Malang City, pointing to serious deficiencies in selected physical works,
in community participation, and / or in the implementation of the LARAPs.
10. Additional Information
The IUIDP concept envisages that local governments prepare and implement medium-term infrastructure
development plans (PJMs) and update and adjust them in a "rolling-plan" mechanism, provided that the
basic logic of the original plans was retained. The implementation of these PJMs should then be
programmed to synchronize with the fiscal and institutional capacities of the local government, as they are
improved through the RLAP and LIDAP results. It was further intended that annual programs would begin
with the funding of needed O&M expenditures for existing infrastructure assets (as estimated by the
- 20 -



POMMS program). This ambitious approach to local development program management was quite
challenging even prior to the confusion and uncertainties created by the crises which enveloped Indonesia
from 1997. The government officials who were active in program management at provincial level during
the implementation of the EJUDP II have very much adhered to the concept of the IUIDP and have shown
laudable degrees of both professionalism and pragmatism in appraising project proposals from local
governments, in the implementation of the core program as well as of the additional programs during the
difficult process of project execution.
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
;, ;  -. *~Indlator/Mirl       . "X;-  .  . iProj t d    antlisR, ?:.p    .,vActialL            --
(a) The percentage of urban households in                                 REPELITA VI was abandoned by GOI in
East Java Province receiving the REPELITA                                 1998 due to crisis impacts and these targets
VI targeted levels of urban services;                                    were not monitored by the project
See Annex 10 for RIAP discussion; LIDAP
(b) Number of parUcipating local                                         and POMMS targets were not systematically
govemments attaining agreed targets for                                  monitored/reported for Dv project
local revenue improvement (RIAP),
institutonal strengthening (LIDAP), and
operations/maintenance expenditure
(POMMS);
(c) Percentage attainment of "priority targets"                           Province and local govemments deemed the
defined in participating local govemment                                  *priority targets system to be unworkable in
APIP/MPPT documents; and                                                  pracice - see note below
(d) Conformance with agreed schedule for                                  Preparation suspended; see section 4.1 and
preparation of East Java Strategic Regional                               Annex 15 for additional discussion
Development Program.
Output Indicators:
None defined or monitored for project
End of project
The SAR envisaged that the performance of local governments in the gradual implementation of the
program be measured through the attainment of annual priority targets which were to be stated in the APIP
for each local government and to be evaluated during the APIP preparation for the following year. In
reality, this planned implementation monitoring system has turned out to be somewhat impractical, for
several reasons. The main reason is that the availability of funds for physical implementation was generally
very much delayed. During most fiscal years, the grant funds from central government had been barely
released (if even that) by the time the APIPs for the following year were to be prepared (see also section
7.5). The availability of SLA funds often encountered even greater delays. As a consequence, physical
implementation had often not even started, let alone shown any tangible results, at the time of APIP
preparation for the following year. Thus, the evaluation of priority targets was only carried out in two year
steps, i.e. for the first year during the APIP preparation for the third yea, and for the second year during
the APIP preparation for the fourth year. Also, the provincial program mnanagement units had to reduce the
attention to implementation monitoring because they had to handle, with given resources, substantial
additional tasks not foreseen in the SAR, especially the wide range of necessary responses to the economic
crisis, and the preparation and implementation of several additional components (see section 3.4).
-22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate     Appraisal
US$ million  US$ million
A. Infrastructure Investment
1. Water Supply                                  60.4          8.0          13%
2. Urban Roads                                   58.0         36.2          62%
3. Drainage                                      38.2         19.5          51%
4. Solid Waste Management                         12.4         4.7          38%
5. Sanitation and Sewerage                       12.0          1.8          15%
6. KIP and MIIP                                   9.9          9.1          92%
7. Urban Renewal                                  2.2          -             0%
Subtotal                         193.1         79.4         41%
B. O & M
1. Incremental O&M on existing Infrastructure    19.5         13.8          71%
2. Incremental O&M on new Infrastructure          6.7          -             0%
Subtotal                         26.2        13.8          53%
C. Implementation Support
1. Local Management & Administration             13.8          4.7          34%
2. Technical assistance                           11.1         9.9          89%
Subtotal                         24.9         14.6         59%
Total Proiect Cost.                             244.2        107.7          44%/o
Other urban investment                           36.2          -             0%
Current level O&M                                62.2          -             0%
Interest During Construction IBRD Loan            3.8          -             0%
Interest During Construction Domestic            10.9          -             0%
Total Financina Requirement              357.3        107.7         30%
Note: estimasi kurs untuk GOI, 1 US$ = Rp.9800 sesuai APBN 2001
estimated exchange rate US$1 = Rp 9800 per GOI FY2001 budget
- 23 -



PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS million)
Appmisd ( Docient SAR)                             AciW
Procuremnent Procedures     Total         Pocurement Procedures        Total
ICB      NCB    Oier   NBF               ICB      NCB     Olher   NBF
CMi Works                                              105.7   1.0   10.6    117.3              10.8                     10.8
(86.3)  (0.8)  -      (87.1             (54.5)     (92)  -       (63.7)
Goods                                         15.0      26.5   1.0    2.8     45.3                1.3                     1.3
(13.8)   (22.5)  (0.8)  -       (37.1)             (2.7)                    (2.7)
Contaded enbedng dcEsn and upviVs                              8.7             8.7                         0.0            0.0
(8.6)           (8.6)                      (2.5)           (2.5)
Tednical assistance                                          10.3            10.3                         0.1            0.1
(9.9)           (9.9)                      (7.3)           (7.3)
incrementa O&M                                                       25A      25A                               13.8     13.8
Land. Taxes. Dulies                                                  23A      23A                                1.2      12
Local Maagerent ard Admrnnstration                                   13.8     13.8                               4.3      4.3
Total ProjedCost                               150     132.2  21.0   76.0    244.2               12.1      0.1  19.3     31.6
(13.8)  (108.8) (20.1)  -      (1427)     -       (572)     (19.0)  -      (762)
Oter wban Ivestmnt                                                   36.2     36.2
Current OM                                                           622      62.2
IDC                                                                  14.7     14.7
Tol Finandna R                                 15.0    132.2  21.0  189.1    357.3      -        12.1      0.1  19.3     31.6
(13.8)  (108.8) (20.1)  -      (142.7)            (57.2)    (19.0)  -      (76.2)
Fgures In aretm     are amounts Itnacd by IBRD
el Indcudes natonal sppirg. slmpi  d porment procdures
for small works and seledlon of consubnts fooig IBRD gukdelnes
- 24 -



Aepraisal (Document SAR )                   Actual
Own    IBRD Loan Total  %of Total  Own   IBRD Loan Total   %of Total
Sources                  Project Cost Sources              Project Cos
Local Govemments                            51.2     31.9   83.1    34%        23.1     37.6   60.7   56%
Water Enterprises (PDAMs)                   28.5      35.7  64.2    26%         6.9      1.9    8.8    8%
Provincial Govemments                       11.2        0   11.2    5%          1.0     15.5   16.5   15%
Central Govemment                           10.1     75.1   85.2    35%         0.6     21.3   21.9   20%
Community Centribution                       0.5        0    0.5    0%          0.0        0    0.0    0%
Total Prolect Cosb                         101.5     142.7  244.2  100%        31.5     76.3  107.8   100%
% of Total Project Cost                   41.6%     58.4% 100.0%             29.2%     70.8% 100.0%
Other urban investment                      36.2        0   36.2                0.0        0    0.0
Current Level O&M. local govermments        38.4        0   38.4                0.0        0    0.0
Current Level O&M. PDAMs                    23.8        0   23.8                0.0        0    0.0
IDC and Commitrent fees, local govemments    6.7        0    6.7                0.0        0    0.0
IDC and Commitment fees, PDAMs               4.2        0    4.2                0.0        0    0.0
IDC and Commitment fees, central govemment   3.8        0    3.8                0.0        0    0.0
Total Financing Requirement                214.6     142.7  357.3              31.5     76.3  107.8
% of Total Financing                      60.1%     39.9% 100.0%             29.2%     70.8% 100.0%
-25-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
PDAM Kabupaten Tulungagung
FINANCIAL INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Incremental Revenue                Incremental Costs                                      Sensitivity Tcsts
Increme
Tariff   Conn. Fee &     Total                    ntal    Total    Net Cash              4%              4%           4%
Adm&Meter                                                                   Increase in     Decrease in   Increase
Revenue       Fees       Revenue     Investments  O&M      Casts      Flow               Costs          Revenue      in Costs
Decrease
in
Revenue
(Rp.
Year  (Rp 1016)   (Rp L0A6)    (Rp 1016)     (Rp 1016)   106) KRp 10^6)   (Rp IOV6)          (Rp 106)       (Rp 106)    (Rp 1016)
1998                      -                       -
1999                                           4,087            4,087    (4,087)                  (4,250)         (4,087)  (4,250)
2000                                           1,990            1,990    (1,990)                  (2,070)          (1,990)  (2,070)
2001                                           1,032            1,032    (1,032)                  (1,073)          (1,032)  (1,073)
2002    3,232           1,545   4,777            659    1,203   1,863            2,914             2,839           2,723    ,648
2003      936             513   1,449            256    482     738               711                681             653   623
2004    1,052             459   1,511            171    467     637                873               848             813    87
2005    1,134             481   1,615            171     06     677               939                912             874   847
2006    1,401             555   1,955            171     70     741              1,214             1,185           1,136   1,107
2007    1,525             589   2,114            171     SI     821              1,293             1,260           1,208   1,175
2008    1,904             692   2,596            171     43     913              1,683             1,646           1,579   1,542
2009    2,051             733   2,783            171    R53     1,023            1,760             1,719           1,649   1,608
2010    2,051             808   2,858            171    915     1,085            1,773             1,730            1,659  1,615
2011    2,051             847   2,897          (2,652)  1,177   (1,475)          4.372             4,431           4,256   4,315
FIRR          12.69%              12.13%           12.10%   11.54%
NPV              814               435             403   24
-26 -



Economic Evaluation of Krian Bypass Road
UMU M                                        _ _ _ _  _ _ __ _ _  _ _ _ _
DislkHpsi Proyek                    Karakterlsilk Jlan       Without With             Asunul
Propinsl                 Jawa Timur        Panjang )aian (Km)                0.0   7.8   Kec. Rata-rata (Km/jam)  30
KabupaterVKota           Sidoarjo          Lebar Jalan (M)                  0.0    15.0  Har / Tahun             349
Nama Jalan               Jalan Ungkar Krian  Tipe Jalan (1=2 jalur,2=4 jalur)  0    2    Discount rate          12.0%
Jenis Pekerjaan          Pembangunan       Hamb samping (1=rendah,2T1lnggI)  0      1    O&M / Investment       1.5%
Tahun                     1999/2000        Kekasaran jalan                  bad    good  Rehab / Investment     30.0%
Blaya Investasi (Rp. 1,000.000) 13,567                                                   Inflasl                18.4%
SURVEY LAW UNTAS
Sunvey summare                         Assum   ors
Survey dilakukan         2001/20022  Traffic growth in first year (p.a.)  8.0%
Benefit hours (BH) / day    12      Traffic growth after first year (p.a.)  8.0%
Traffic survey hours / day  16      Dlverted / Induced traffic      0.0%
Beneflt hours / survey hours  84%   Constructlon year - Survey year  1
ADT(trafflc In survey hours)
Vehiclesl Pcar  Minibus      UV       Bus     LGV        Trud        M/C
48,570 1 6,876  6,231       7,342    400     11,876      8,124      7,721
KEUNTUNGAN BERSIH (Rp 1.000.000)
Item                  1999/2000      2000/01      2001/-98         2002/03         2003/04    2004/05
Benefits
ADT in benefit hours                  0          56,652       61,184           66,079         71,365      77,074
VOC savings (Rp /vehicle ki)                        50          40               30              20          10
VOC savings (Rp m)                                7,646        6,606           5,351           3,853       2,080
Costs
Construction                       13,567           0            0                0              0           0
O&M                                   A            2DA          20.A ZAA                                    2DA
Total costs                        13,567          204          204             204             204         204
Net benefits                -13,567        7.442        6.402            5,147          3.649       1.877
KRITERIA EVALUASI_
Kriteria                          Base         Zero            Double
case _       rowth           growth
First-year rate of return (FYRR)                    54.9%        54.9%            63.5%
Beneflt / cost ratio (BCR)                            1.5          1.3              1.8
Net present value (NPV)                             4,669         2,182           7,348
Economic internal rate of return (IRR)              30.3%        20.8%            40.3%
Economically feasible (y / n) ?                      yes          yes              yes
ANALISA SENSITIVITAS
ADT / Net benefits           i 1999/2000      2000/01     2001/-98         2002/03         2003/04    2004/05
Zero growth before first year 1                   48,570       52,456           56,652         61,184      66,079
VOC savings (Rp /vehicle kmi)                      6,555        5,664            4,587 .        3,303       1,784
Net benefits             | -13,567         6,352       5,460            4,384           3,099      1,580
Double growth before first year                   65,356       70,584           76,231         82,329      88,916
VOC savings (Rp /vehicle km)                       8,820        7,621            6,173          4,444       2,400
Net benefits            L -13.567         8,617        7,417            5,969           4,241      2,197
- 27-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
March/April
1995
7    1 urban planner, I institutional
specialist, I financial analyst, I
environmental specialist, I
municipal engineer, I operations
officer (engineer), I social
scientist
Appraisal/Negotiatfon
July/August 1995             9   I urban planner, I
management specialist, 1
urban specialist, 2 operations
officers (I municipal
engineering background, I
transport), I social impact
specialist, I environmental
specialist, 1 financial
specialist
Supervision
May 1996                    12   I urban planner, I lawyer, 2        S             S
procurement specialists, 2
disbursement analysts, 2
municipal engineers, 2
environmental specialists, 2
financial analyasts
December 1996                3    1 urban planner, I municipal       S             S
engineer, I procurement
specialist
March 1997                  10   2 operations officers, I urban      S             S
environment specialist, I
municipal engineer, I
resettlement specialist, 1 urban
planner, 2 financial analysts, I
environmental specialist, I
human resources development
specialist
July 1997                    6   1 urban environment specialist, I   S             S
municipal engineer, I
resettlement specialist, I urban
planner, I operations officer, I
financial analyst
November 1997               10    I municipal engineer, I            S             S
resettlement specialist, I urban
- 28 -



planner, I operations officer, I
financial analyst, 2
environmental specialists, 3
water & sanitation specialists
February 1998                    7   1 urban planner, I operations           S              S
officer (municipal engineer), I
financial analyst, I urban
environment specialist, I social
scientist, I urban development
specialist, I water & sanitation
specialist
July 1998                        8   1 urban planner, I operations          U               S
officer (municipal engineer), I
financial analyst, 1 resettlement
specialist, 2 water & sanitation
specialists, I urban transport
specialist, I environmental
specialist
November 1998                    7    1 urban planner, I operations          S               S
officer (municipal engineer), I
financial analyst, I resettlement.
specialist, I water & sanitation
specialist, I environmental
specialist, I social specialist
March 1999                       8   2 urban planners, I operations          S               S
officer (municipal engineer), I
financial analyst, I resettlement
specialist, I environmental
specialist, I water & sanitation
specialist, I social specialist
July 1999                        7   1 urban planner, I operations           S               S
officer (municipal engineer), I
financial analyst, I resettlement
specialist, I environmental
specialist, 1 water & sanitation
specialist, I social specialist
NovembeT 1999                    8   1 urban planner, 2 operations           S               S
officers (municipal engineers), I
financial analyst, I resettlement
specialist, I environmental
specialist, I water & sanitation
specialist,. I social specialist
December 2000                    6   2 operations officers (municipal        S               S
engineers), I financial analyst, I
environmental specialist, I social
specialist, I water & sanitation
specialist
July 2001                        3    1 financial analyst, I                 S               S
environmental specialist, I
operations officer (municipal
engineer)
ICR
5     I urban planner, I                     S               S
-29 -



April 2002
municipal engineer, I social
specialist, I urban specialist,
I financial analyst, I
program management
specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               37.0                       89.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                    50.5                       150.8
Supervision                             253.6                      597.2
ICR                                      14.4                       49.0
Total                                   355.5                       886.1
Dollar costs incurred before FY2000 are adjusted upward by 15% to reflect direct cost values.
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
El Sector Policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
3 Physical                              O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
El Financial                            OH   OSUOM      O N   O NA
EO Institutional Development            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
El Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              OH    O SU O M   O N   O NA
El Gender                        OH OSUOM ON ONA
Oli Other (Please specify)       OH    OSUOM      ON    O NA
El Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
CL Public sector management             0 H  0B SU 0 M  0 N   0 NA
E Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM      ON    O NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
Ol Lending                                          OHS*S OQU OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS Os       OU    OHU
El Overall                                          OHS OS       O u OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
El Preparation                                      OHS * S      O U   O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      O U   0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       Q U   O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. ICR Mission aide memoire
2.  Final Implementation Completion Report and PBME Report, prepared for the Ministry of Settlements
and Regional Infrastructure by PT. Bina Asih Consultants (bilingual)
3.  Laporan Khusus Pasca Closing Date IBRD Loan No. 40 l7-IND, prepared for PPMO by PT.
Tritunggal P. Konsultan
4. Quarterly Reports, Annual Reports, and Special Reports published by PPMO (bilingual)
5.  Assignment Completion Report for Urban Development Program Management Support, by PT.
Tritunggal P. Konsultan (bilingual)
6. Assignment Completion Report for Advisory Services to PPMO, by Doxiadis Associates (bilingual)
7. Assignment Completion Report for Advisory Services to PTCU, by PT. Kogas Driyap Konsultan
Assignment Completion Report for Urban Development Program Region 1, by PT. Parama Artha
Santika
8. Assignment Completion Report for Urban Development Program Region 2, by PT. Tritunggal P.
Konsultan
9.  Assignment Completion Report for Urban Development Progarn Region 3, by PT. Seecons
10. Assignment Completion Report for Urban Development Program Malang City, by Kogas Driyap
Konsultan
11. Implementation Completion Report for Urban Development Program Region 1, by PT. Parama Artha
Santika
12. Implementation Completion Report for Urban Development Program Region 2, by PT. Tritunggal P.
Konsultan
13. Implementation Completion Report for Urban Development Program Region 3, by PIT. Seecons
14. Implementation Completion Report for Urban Development Program Malang City, by Kogas Driyap
Konsultan
15. Annual Technical Audit Reports, prepared by ItWilProp East Java (later renamed Badan
Pengawasan)
16. Annual Financial Audit Reports, prepared by BPKP
17. Project files, containing full records of preparation and supervision activities
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. Environmental Management
Diagram: Flow Chart of Deterniining Necessity of Environmental Documentation
START 
Project
Memorandum
zC KepMenLH     :
3,9/1996 ?           i 
AMDAL Study
IFls under\
<   KepMenPU                                        of
XJeCz Ei             \    ,~~~~01  / E
Fls under
< Kiteria Satgas 
No |                           ~~~~~~~~~~~Preparation of
lE                                       UKL / UPL
-34-



Tabli : Required and Available Environmental Compliance Reports
Local Government I                                              ECR available
PDAM                        Project to be Documented             by April 2002
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Road Betterment Project Jalan Halim       yes
Bangkalan                  regional regulationnakusuma
PDAM Kabupaten Bangkalan    Water Supply Program                      yes
POAM Kabupaten              Water Supply Program Banyuwangi           yes
Banyuwangi
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Road Betterment Project                   no
Boj onegoro
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten Blitar  Final Waste Disposal Site Tegalasri I     no
Wlingi
Loc. Gov. Kota Blitar      Water Supply Program Blitar                yes
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten Jember  Final Waste Disposal Site                 no
Loc. Gov, Kabupaten         Road Betterment Project                   yes
Jombang
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten Kediri  Final Waste Disposal Site                 no
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten Kediri  Sludge Treatment Plant (IPLT) Kediri      yes
POAM Kota Kediri            Water Supply Program                      yes
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Market Infrastructure Improvement         yes
Lumajang                    Project Jogotrunan I Srangin
PDAM Kabupaten Lumajang     Deep Well Development Project             yes
Purwosono
Loc. Gov. Kota Madiun       Final Waste Disposal Site                 yes
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten        Sludge Treatment Plant (IPLT)               no
Magetan                     Magetan
PDAM Kabupaten Magetan     Water Supply Program Magetan                no
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten Malang  Final Waste Disposal Site                 yes
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten Malang  Sludge Treatment Plant (IPLT) Batu        yes
Ljc Gov. Kabupaten         Ubalan Well Development Project            yes
M ojokerto                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten        Drainage & Access Road to Final
Mojokerto                  Waste Disposal Site Mojosari               yes
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten Ngawi  Final Waste Disposai Site                   no
- 35 -



Road Betterment Project Jalan Lurah
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten Nganjuk  Surodarmoyes
PDAM Kabupaten Pacitan      Water Supply Program                      yes
Loc. Goy. Kabupaten Pacitan  Road Betterment Project Jalan A. Yani    yes
etc.
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Drainage Project                           no
Pasuruan
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Drainage Project                          yes
Pamekasan
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Road Betterment Project                   yes
Pamekasan
PDAM Kabupaten              Water Supply Program Pademawu             yes
Pamekasan
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Road Betterment Project Jalan A. Yani     yes
Ponorogo                    etc.
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Road Betterment and Bridge                 yes
Probolinggo                 Construction Project Dringu III
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten
Probolinggo                 FinalWaste Disposal Site Seboro           yes
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Final Waste Disposal Site Tigasan         yes
Probolinggo                 Wetan
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Road and Bridge Construction Project       yes
Sampang                     Tanglok
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Access Road to Final Waste Disposal        yes
Sumenep                     Site Sumenep-
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten Tuban   Road Betterment Project Jalan Letda.       yes
*Sucipto etc
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Road Betterment Project Jalan Brigjen.     yes
Trenggalek                  Sutran etc
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Final Waste Disposal Site Tulungagung      yes
Tulungagung
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Construction of Waste Transfer Depots      yes
Tulungagung
Loc. Gov. Kabupaten         Sludge Treatment Plant (IPLT)              yes
Tulungagung                 Tulungagung
- 36 -



Additional Annex 9. Loan Funds & Disbursement
Diagram: Development of Loan Fund Amount and Loan Fund Composition by Disbursement
Category
160,000 -
140,000  _                                                Padat Karya
O  120,000 - _  1l       |        l                      *CoKalimantan
120,000                __ __   ____   ____Padat Karya
East Java
O   0 000                               *                 Consultants to
O  100,000  mU      urn                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial and
o    EU      EU     EU                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Local Gov'mt
aooo               *    fl      lf                            Consultants to
-80,000-*-- Central
-                    lX     ll,     l         1|1     *Governm ent
0
_                     111111                                     *Goods Other
60,000       ii
40,000                                                   Goods SLA
20,000  II    II     II      II            ECivil Works
20,000 -     *-      *                                    Other
0  Civil Works
0                I                          4
Document
- 37 -



Additional Annex 10. RIAP Implementation
The sustained improvement of local government revenue is one of the comerstones of the IUIDP concept.
In the context of the EJUDP II, the expected development of local government revenue has been presented
in the SAR. However, some unforeseen developments, most notably Indonesia's national economic crisis,
have had a profound impact on the realization of these expectations. Other factors were Law No. 18 / 1997
which restructured Indonesia's tax system and reallocated some of local governments' most important tax
bases to central govemment. On the other hand, Law No. 25 / 1999 on fiscal decentralization has allocated
some important revenue sources to local govem-ments. Local governments, however, have often not been
able to tap these newly allocated sources to maximum effect.
Table 10.1 shows the development of own source revenue in all 36 local govem-ments' in nominal terms2
from FY 1995/96 through FY 20013. Nominal revenue shows a steadily rising trend in almost all local
governments. Obviously, though, it is more important to know local revenue in real terms, i.e. corrected for
inflation. After such correction, revenue of most local govem-ments shows an increase from FY 1995/96
through FY 1997/98, then a sharp drop, caused by the extra-ordinary inflation of about 84.8% during that
year, then a gradual rise again. This implies that calculations of growth trends for the whole period from
FY 1995/96 through FY 2001 would give a distorted picture. A more realistic picture, i.e. a picture which
results in a sensible figure for average annual increase and which allows some sort of projection for the
near future, can probably obtained if the review is limited to the period from FY 1998/99 through FY 2001.
Again, the table presented below shows more details. Average annual growth rates have been calculated
by applying the best-fitting exponential growth curve to each cluster of available data.
As can be seen, the average annual revenue increase of all local governments in real terms was 18.2%
during the period from FY 1998/99 through FY 2001. Several local governments have achieved at least
25% average annual increase of their revenue in real terms during the period under review; they may
however not be always able to sustain such increases in the long run. On the other hand, some local
governments- have shown a tendency of very low increases or even decreases of their revenue in real terms.
In some cases- this may be caused by a certain sluggishness of the local bureaucracy rather than by a lack
of local revenue potential as such; in other cases though, there may really be such a lack of local revenue
potential that the local governments concerned will find it very difficult to meet the obligations allocated to
them in the context of decentralization.
All in all, the RIAP component of the EJUDP II can be considered fairly successful, given the external
circumstances: 31 out of 36 local governments have achieved more than 10% average annual revenue
increase in real terms since FY 1998/99. This gives rise to the hope that they will have at least the financial
means to cover the 0 & M cost of the physical infrastructure created under the EJUDP II.
I/All local governments of East Java except Kota Surabaya.
2/ It has to be noted that FY 2000 comprised only 9 months (I April through 31 December 2000); the nominal
figures for FY 2000 have therefore been multiplied by 1.33, to simulate a full 12 month-fiscal year.
3/ For some local governments, the figures for FY 2001 are still target figures, not actual realization.
4/ Or FY 1998/99 through FY 2000, depending an data availability.
5/ Kabupaten Magetan, Kabupaten Sumenep, Kabupaten Trenggalek, and Kota Probolinggo.
6/ Kota Malang, Kabupaten Malang, Kabupaten Jember, Kabupaten Sampang, and Kabupaten Pamekasan.
7/ Such as in Kota Malang, Kabupaten Malang, and Kabupaten Jember.
8/ Such as in Kabupaten Sampang and in Kabupaten Pamekasan.
- 38 -



Table 10.1 Revenue lfmpI.menatlon Actioni Plan (RiAP) Performance, FY 199611997 - FY2001, iri               rm      Pie
LOCA.L      Realizatin      RiAP PROJECT ION OF SA                 RIAP PR)JECTION          %fG=n          REALIZAIION OF RIM             I_R            ___ATI_           AV. G imin
No. OVERNME=N 19951199              r        Y         FY      4m         F         F          Y     QSI        PrF       Pr        FY      A          r        F         r       FuUu
-  ________   ~~~thhun dn,  im l      $97is"6 1984)                   (1m    MM)         321   ito FM     IM    I~ es!9       OM4    O3rh(%j   SM        2X                     FY
I   1101                 2225    2S        3.1300)   430.0D.  26%     _3_1        3    0     ,740    13%-      2300      3.183J    2771    8%       31845     4)88.0    5=80         18%
2    .a                   .u     331.0     4.116M    5A26.     11%      7.110     7.135.0   11.2263  22%       4.2220    4AS3.0    5.5321.  16%     731       5.  .3   11,226.9     22%
3      n3.413                    3M   D 05.20)       61130o    la       5,1113    &1290     8282     10%       4S4-0     418756    4,3861  8%       4.884J    8.312-0     180J      19%
4     ~       ,         10,740  11.1940O  12.7811    1430M     10%     i88        9,2&20    25.986O  i6%      13,269D   17,214.0  19.131.  21%     17.01     22 0S     27,097.1     17%
S                        2.2l06  2.16511   2,M        3.1980   13%      3,11W 0   3,404.    40744    15%       2.7180    3300J     3,1456  13%      2,99      4.8830     04J140      IN%
*     nw                 22431   2A        2,9770     34840    1W.      2.8754    3m        eOsi7    201%      22820     3848.     27M     7%       303       38.7      7A19A        22%
7                        Z=230   3A0180    3.5050    4.1160D  12%        V,670    3,2250    10.064   21%       3,9500    3.090     2.776   -2%      3.106.    4,7893    6.062        19%
I    ga                  229     2224.0    2.540     23070     9%       4.2404    45040     7,230A   21%      2,0130 -3.134       263A     9%       4,248     88720     7327.7      22%
2     mwU 81                     5.7000    OMi.      83570     10%     12348.    12*82.0    17.wd    21%       8.084     7.788    14AI2   2%       12.281    133040    18093A        22%
3    6Wr                 4,114   33000     41.610     6,300    16%      6.1840    6.1900    10.61    17%       4.2800    5.76&     6237.1 15%       6.84-     84M.     1.51.3 *      17%  -
4    co   o                      320 30j        -0    4644.0   7%L      5.23       2420     1100A    in%       36.0t     8484      5010A   12%      em       1 .8530   IZ8482        24%
S          sorn          238     2296      2.7310     3131170  12%        M.87    4,11.0    6911j    1%        2.10  310   3       3.7UI 17%        4.147    5S90       95673        23%
6    ma1O.189.2                  8.70O      Mt77     11740     4%      18.08      1387.0    3141769  20%      16*2      14AS61    15.1484  14%o     *10.29   20m.7     32,847        21%
7   ~ie                 10.710  10.869    12030      14.7880   11%     23.7570.  27*5       23274    14%      150480D   13207t    17.408  16%      2506      222880    26*7         -18%
6 ~~~~~~~~ ~6.22D          6MU720      M.013  10.145.    16%     1233701   14.2840   21.M13.   Z3%       6*0       9M96.   I11. 101  21%      15.03D.  1753.3    3197.7       3%
9  efll            681~~~~~~AS  510e   rie     62860   9%        156       1153. a    toA      17%       760        393.0   "Il     18%       0.34d    15017821.1l            18%
1 0       an             ON8      3.72U    4.23.0     45620    1%        1.5350   144.0     14.776A  28        4.787.0   4025.      .816   10%       65744    8.4       11526.5      26%
1 1  ur                  4,33     4.7280J  6.41680   8S740     16%       6.1980   922.0     11,898   18%       5.1950     WU0      7P4.0   18%       9,784    10.712.0  15,76.       24%
*   12   at.                  53     3M        4.2820D    5,130U   2%       3.54      4988.0    4014A    8%        34780     4028      3.1 98A  3%      4.224,1   8.3120    4*14*'       8%
( ~ 13                       UV3.8    2.127.0  312801     31     06%         6.648Z   6.491t0   16.87    33%       3,044.0   30J75     3.522a   5%       5M096    10487.7   17rns        34%
Co  14                       OJ,  B   9190     11=10     13230J    13%      1        20,2D.0    21,315A  15%      10.590    10620     1603m    19%      18812     17=0      21.315-4'    15%4
1 5                      5571     587M     &6981.0    8.167.0  14%-     IOW      1230LO     13e.0?   18%       5307.0    8,217A    6.184   14%      11,7841   15307.3   15.301.2     18%
18  r~~~~~~~~ ~5.1123      6,21 20   6,071 A    7.1650D  12         awm     7,7 10.0  53.g     18%       6)7480    80430     5002    3%       7,69     I0OWA.    18.45.1       21%
17                ~~~~~    ~~~~~2988  2  3  2.9804  338  4%       4.08D     U*56.0    9884o    22%       328"      32830     3806    10%      .3*231    5.818,7. -    84D'     22
16 ~~~~~~           471~~~e  2200    Z,961.0   4024.0   104%      3.4030    3.5310    7,994.l  6%        2.239.0   2.0420   3.311   92%       3,396     5E.97     7.894.0     60%
1 0  aeEasam             2j7       24,0     3043      418860 16%         4,020    426,0      78492   1S%       370       450a    4534    19%         3,798   658440     7    2'      14%
20     a~i6M3                     53230     5.6411)   als 6    WA50  ____        17,147.0  32,3711   30%       9.480-0   9,2850   14.42i0  26%      16.81411  24,512-0  A420OA       35
21    crnag              2,984    34260a   3,600i     43050    17%       6.684A   63030     14,925   31%       3,18711   3,1290D   5003.   24%       6257-    8,032     14.282       28%
22                       UN~g  28  3870    4,1153.0   43R680    8%-      5.230    5028.      7.8114  2%        35500     3.731,0   40D135  19%       5.0584   8.98       7*011.5*    22%
23   aig1.35                      1 0480    2.3       2MU9     25%       Z,419.0  23957.0    3.123   15%       1589.     1.961     2AM4    21%       2098.-    3.31323   3.1Z3A'     16%
24   I*                 20,100   19        23J       3 0,7490  15%      37   0   39.20.0    87218     2%      277870)    30 970   3.00A    21%      8483      55602     67~2180'     22%
25 ~huu3.102                      3.1310   3.RD0      41.4120  12%       4.247-0  4A310O     7.71 1116%        33150     33I-01    308B    ft        4041      k9.~0     7,471.0'-   16%
28    uZ, .79                     23270O   2,2010     2,780A0   %        3.248,0  3149.0    13.17    30%       284.0     3,620b    3,7201  18%       2919 .O.           13,A179.8    30%
27   *.dk                2.1M     23920     2.8480    33390    18%       3.8810   3827.0     8.884   27%       23030     21Di0.0   30591   12%       3778d     5.1173    9096.1      29%
28     u                 450      4.4120O  5.380A     6213.0   6%      I1IA5,0    I3.876.0  25.062J   31%      5.331.0    75401   11.613   33%      14.107   M24.80      MM.93       34%
29       ~                03      3.2H     4.18401,   6191.0   19%       WU       7flw      1083-    24%   1   3m40D     4.9780    55761   25        ?      *0          11.0m80       VA%
Lf~~~Z~~51       18~~6,2308  168,321  196,2510  243.104   13%I   3006,0840  3334310  62770W.    21%     212.61l 239,2880,   27l05U   .17%    324,05D0  422,784.0  74,613.7      2311
'Earnhftd 12 MoE. kftl bnWd En B Mo. rMiZMfin



Additional Annex 11. The Impact of the Economic Crisis'
The Development of Exchange Rates
From the late 1980s until 1996, Indonesia, just like most other nations in Southeast Asia, had
enjoyed a period of unprecedented economic growth, with GDP growth rates of around 8% annually. The
exchange rate of Indonesia's currency, the Rupiah, against hard currencies, especially the US Dollar, was
fairly stable with only a slight tendency toward gradual depreciation. The typical exchange rate in 1996
was US$ 1 = Rp. 2,250 to Rp. 2,350. However, there were already indications of latent structural
weak-nesses as well as of social and political problems which had a potential of undermining the nation's
stability.
The chain of events now commonly called "the Asian crisis" began in Thailand when the national
currency there experienced a sharp drop of its exchange rate against hard currencies, beginning in early
July 1997. Beginning in September 1997, the Rupiah's exchange rate gradually began to deteriorate as
well, and by October the Rupiah had dropped to about Rp. 3,500 to the dollar. At the same time, the stock
markets of Southeast Asia began a period of strongly bearish trends. In Malaysia, this trend had already
begun in March 1997. A big psychological blow to investors in the region was the collapse of South
Korea's stock market in late October 1997, and the grave economic difficulties which that country
experienced since then, including a rapid depreciation of its national currency.
The Rupiah's exchange continued to deteriorate in November 1997, and in early December 1997 it
entered a period of wild fluctuations. These fluctuations were connected to a number of uncorroborated
rumors circulating in the country. There was a rumor that one of Indonesia's richest businessmen had died
in Singapore, and there were even rumors that the president had died. On each of these occasions, the
Rupiah's exchange rate fluctuated wildly, from Rp. 4,000 to almost Rp. 6,000 to the dollar, changing
significantly from hour to hour. It was then that a strong feeling of nervousness, if not panic, began to
spread in the Indonesian public, with ordinary people suddenly beginning to continuously monitor the
exchange rate over TV or radio.
In January 1998, the collapse of the Rupiah's exchange rate reached its peak, with quoted figures
varying from Rp. 14,000 to Rp. 17,000 to the dollar. Currency trading became so frantic and obviously
speculative that significantly different rates were quoted at the same time in different locations or by
different traders. This added to the general feeling of insecurity and panic.
By March and April 1998, the exchange rate had recovered to about US$ 1 = Rp. 7,000, but then
mass demonstrations, riots in Jakarta, and the resignation of President Soeharto on 21 May 1998 led again
to a deterioration of the exchange rate, to figures of about US$ 1 = Rp. 14,000. With the taking-over of
power by Prof. Habibie, the hoped4for speedy recovery of the Rupiah's exchange rate did not immediately
materialize, but a positive trend began to appear in September 1998, and by late October 1998 the
exchange rate had reached a level of about US$ 1 = Rp. 7,600 again. In late 1998 and early 1999, it
generally hovered around US$ I = Rp. 8,000, recovered for a short while up to about US$ 1 = Rp. 6,700
after the election of a new president in October 1999, then gradually fell to a low of about US$ I = Rp.
11,000 by mid-2001, and finally recovered again to a level of US$ 1 = Rp. 8,800 by end of May 2002.
- 40 -



General Consequences of the Exchange Rate Shift
1.     Prices for imported goods increased, and terms of payment changed
An immediate consequence of the drop in the Rupiah's exchange rate was that the (Rupiah
de-nomi-nated) prices for all imported goods and components rose substantially. This also hurt many
businesses which were basically export oriented but were still relying on imported raw materials or other
imported compo-nents. Not only did the price for such imported materials increase significantly, there were
reportedly also changes in the terms of payment: suppliers, who had previously often given a generous
credit line, were now in-sisting on immediate payment, if not advance payment, and/or on payment in hard
currency.
2.     Domestic interest rates rose, and financing problems increased
In order to stem the tide and prevent an even faster collapse of the Rupiah's extemal value, the Bank
of Indonesia embarked on a course of raising interest rates. This, however, hurt many busines-ses some of
whom had apparently so grown accustomed to credit lines conceded by suppliers and/or easy and cheap
bridge financing from banks that they had neglected the need for the accumulation of suf-ficient working
capital of their own. With foreign credit lines drying up and domestic credit becoming much more
ex-pen-sive than before, if not downright unavailable, these businesses faced enormous problems in bridge
financing their operations. Therefore, even many businesses that should, theoretic-ally, have thrived on
their increasingly competitive export prices, could not sustain their operations.
The most hard-hit economic sectors were those most dependent on calculable long-term and
medium-tenn finan-cing, particularly the property sector. With rapidly rising costs for many items, rapidly
rising prob-lems and costs of funding, and with ever gloomier prospects for eventual sales or even rentals,
the real estate and property develop-ment sector faced a severe slump. Many projects had to be cancelled or
at least suspended.
3.     Unemployment rose, and average household incomes fell
The fact that many construction projects and other businesses came to a halt caused severe problems
of unemployment, especially among the poorly paid unskilled workers who were laid off in large numbers
and within a short period of time. In other sectors, too, workers were laid off in large numbers, including in
the textile, garment, and shoe industries, and in many, if not all other sectors of the economy. The resulting
loss in incomes and purchasing power triggered more problems, e. g. in retail trading and related sectors.
With this development, the awareness that a major economic crisis was at hand spread to all social strata,
including the lower classes in urban as well as rural environ-ments who previous-ly had hardly noticed, let
alone been concemed over, fluctuations in exchange rates or prices of imported goods.
4.     Domestic inflation rose
Whilst the drop in the Rupiah's external exchange rate had immediately affected mainly im-ported goods
and services payable in foreign currency, it was only a question of time that domestic price esca-la-tion for
virtually all goods was triggered. A major factor was the increase in fuel prices (petrol and diesel fuel for
vehicles as well as kerosene for cooking), effected in May 1999. At the same time, all spare parts for motor
vehicles drastically increased in price. The ensuing increase of all transportation costs did of course affect
all goods in the country. Prices for electricity were increased, too. Powdered milk and chicken meat were
among the foodstuffs whose prices rose quickly and sharply, as a result of their high content of imported
com-ponents. A ban on palm oil exports was effected, in order to protect local markets from the competing
-41 -



export markets and to ensure supply to domestic buyers (in 1999, the domestic oil price was considerably
below the world market price). The sudden surge in inflation did not spare building materials either. In
August and September 1998, even the rice price increased sharply, partly on the grounds of increased costs
for fertilizers and pesticides, partly as a result of a poor harvest due to drought, and partly as a result of
increasing short-short-comings in distribu-tion. In addition, smuggling may have contributed to the
shortages (like for oil, the world market rice price was appreciably higher than the domestic price). Rice
price inflation, always a point of highest social and political relevance, reached dramatic levels in August
1998, with an increase of 60% in just over one month.
5.     Social and political problems emerged and came to a boil
By early 1998, the country was headed for a stagflation of unimaginable proportions, with soaring
unemployment, rapidly falling average household incomes, and skyrocketing inflation, all at the same time.
The previously existing social problems, especially are very skewed distribution of wealth and income, now
developed into rapidly rising public discontent, student demonstrations (in April and May 1998), and mass
rioting in Jakarta and other large and medium-sized cities (in May 1998). Eventually, President Soe-harto
was forced to resign on 21 May 1998, and former Vice President Prof. Habibie became the new president.
Demonstrations out of political discontent subsided thereupon, but the economic problems including their
social implications remained.
6.     Public revenue decreased
With more and more businesses collapsing or at least suspending their operations, with the loss of
pur-chas-ing power among the general public, and with an expanding downward trend for all regional
economies, central goverunent and local governments lost a good deal of their estab-lished tax base and
thus of their revenue. For local governments, the situation was aggravated by legis-lation, initiated before
the financial crisis, which provided for a re-structuring of tax revenue distribution, with local governments
losing some important components of their previous tax revenue.
At the same time, local governments (as well as their water supply enter-prises, the PDAMs) faced
increasing political resistance from their impoverished urban population whenever they attempted to adjust
the charges for infrastructure services to cover actual costs. The failure to raise these charges, however,
resulted in increasing need for subsidies, straining local government finances even further and impeding the
PDAMs' development toward a healthier financial status.
Implications for the Implementation of the EJUDP 11
While the national economic, social, and political upheaval did of course impede the working
atmo-sphere and project implementation in general, the following points were particularly relevant for the
project's implementation progress:
7.     The extraordinary inflation required a review of all contracts, resulting in time loss
With the extraordinary inflation, most construction con-tracts could not possibly be implemented at
the price which had been envisaged in previous owner estimates, budget allocations, or even contractually
agreed prices. Since the budget allocations could not be simply increased to accommodate the increased
prices, most contracts had to be reviewed with the objective of reducing their physical volume so that the
total cost of the contract could remain more or less unchanged even though higher unit prices were applied.
Obviously, such renegotiations for a large number of contracts were extremely time-consuming. This
process was an al-most complete re-doing of an ac-tivity done already previously, namely defining all
physical components, both individually and as parts of a whole, assuring that the sum of all individ-ual
components was still a somehow sensible entity, de-termining the new unit prices, and calculating the new
-42 -



contract value. Such a process is in fact more dif-ficult than the "free" calculation of the value of a new
contract, because in the first case the final figure which the contract value must reach is already given. In a
nutshell, the resulting time loss was so great that the number of con-tracts which could be finalized and
implemented during a given time span decreased significantly.
8.     Measured in foreign currency, the value of all contracts decreased
As the exchange rate between local currency (almost all contracts are denominated in local currency)
and the US Dollar (in which the Loan Agreement is denominated) had altered so much, the (constant) price
of each local contract, if measured in US Dollars, represented a much smaller amount than had been
projected in previous planning documents.
9.     Implementation of fewer contracts with reduced Individual values slowed down
loan disbursement
Loan disbursement (in foreign currency) is a function of both the number of con-tracts which can be
im-plemen-ted in a given time span, and their average value (in foreign currency). Thus, loan disburse-ment
must obviously decrease enormously if both that number and that average value (in foreign curren-cy)
de-crease sharply at the same time. This is what has been observed in the EJUDP H (in fact, in nearly all
Indonesian projects, during FY 1997/98 and especially FY 1998/99.
10.    Project tendering was slowed down
Both local governments and contractors were aware of the extraordinary inflation and there-fore
silently agreed that there was little point in starting a ten-dering procedure before speedy pay-ment was
assured. Whilst in previous years a contract could be tendered or ne-gotiated, then signed, per-haps even
partly implemented while funding was still under processing, this was not pos-sible any longer under the
prevailing circumstances. If budgeted funds only become available with a delay, then either
implemen-tation would have to be delayed (compared to the time schedule envis-aged during tendering), or
payment could only be made a considerable time after implementation. In the worldng environment of, say
1999, how-ever, neither solution was feasible. If implementation was delayed, pri-ces would have risen so
much over the levels on which the tendering was based that the pro-fit-ability of the project for the
contractor was no longer assured. If payment was made only a significant time after im-plementation, the
cost of prefinancing by the contractor, in a high-interest environment, would be so high that again
profitability was en-dangered. The only solution to this dilemma was, to wait with the tendering process
until the client had the budgeted funds available in cash. This again slowed down project preparation and
implemen-tation, com-pared to original plans.
11.    Labor Intensive ("Padat Karya") projects were designed
During the implementation of the EJUDP H, adjustments were made to the effect that a program of
labor inten-sive projects ("Padat Karya" projects) should be executed. This included the need for a
re-allocation of the total loan amount, and this was effected in January 1998. The padat karya projects,
which previously had not been a program component, were allocated US$ 22 million whereby this amount
was reduced from the allocation for non-SLA financed civil works.
The planning and design of the padat karya projects was done under great time pressure, and a
number of shortcomings could be observed. For one, it had been envisaged that these projects should be
concentrated in those regions where the surge in unem-ploy--ment as a result of the economic crisis was
most severe. In reality, however, the projects were fairly evenly scattered over the province, and a number
-43 -



of them were found even in locations where the rise in unemployment had been only small. Another
problem was that it was difficult to provide jobs which would replace the jobs that had been lost as a result
of the crisis. The economic crisis led to the closure of many textile, garment, and shoe factories where a
large number of young women had been employed. The work opportun-ities offered by infrastructure
con-struction projects, however, were hardly suitable for that group.
12.    Agreed-upon Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) fell short of technical
requirements
With the general surge in inflation, the cost estimates for all projects designs became increasingly
obsolete. This had a special effect on those budgets which had been fixed in Rupiah, including the
Sub-sidiary Loan Agreements between central government and local governments or PDAMs. As the crisis
went on, it was found that in many cases the SLA amounts would no longer be sufficient to fund the
envisaged project packages. On the other hand, many project packages had been designed in such a manner
that they would make economic sense only if they were implemen-ted as a whole. If any one major
com-ponent were to be left out, the envisaged system might not be functional, leaving local govem-ments
with unfinished systems which would not significantly increase the level of urban services so that little, if
any, additional income from retributions or similar charges could be created. This would constitute a
mis-investment with deplorable financial consequences for local govenmments.
13.    Central govemment had to offer topping-up for insufficient SLA amounts
To avoid such situations where local govemments might be stuck with unfinished programs which
would be a financial burden and a loss to the whole national economy, central govermment decided that it
would top up insufficient SLA amounts to the level required to complete the originally envisaged program
in the technical sense but with the increased cost which resulted from the extra-ordinary inflation. Such
topping-up would be in the form of a grant from central to local govem-ment, pro-vided that local
govemment had fully used their SLA ceiling but could provide evidence that additional funds were needed
to bring about a functional system resulting from a completed packages of projects and components.
14.    Repayability of SLAs became endangered
The deteriorating financial situation in many local governments raised increasing doubts about their
ability to repay SLAs that had been envisaged and concluded under more favorable circum-stances. This
led to the question whether local govemments should really fully use the ceilings allo-cated to them under a
SLA or rather reduce their borrowing to the levels of their likely future repay-ments capacity and cancel
part of the SLA in order to avoid paying unnecessary commitment fees.
15.    Local Institutions' financial situation had to be re-assessed
The general trend of decreasing local govemment revenue (see para 6) required a re-assess-ment of
their finances, including and especially the projections of the future repayment capabilities. This was done
first in the form of a sample exercise, executed for PPMO by the project's UDP consultants. This sample
re-assess-ment focused on local governments which were perceived to represent more or less an average
picture of local government finances in East Java. PPMO was aware that some local govem-ments were
sig-nificantly better off than this "guesstimated" average, some others signific-antly worse. This
re-assess-ment, executed in August and September 1998, concluded that about half of East Java's local
gov-em-ments would have to reduce their borrowing amounts substantially, if a pro-jected Debt Coverage
Ratio (DCR) of at least 1.5 was to be retained throughout the repay-ment period.
- 44 -



In addition to this rapid financial appraisal, a more thorough analysis was done, in the form of
extended financial projections and the preparation of extended RlAPs for all local governnents. It was
found that indeed many local governments would not be able to maintain the originally envisaged debt
coverage ratios.
For the PDAMs, a corresponding exercise of re-assessing their current and likely future finan-cial
status was carried out. Specially for PDAMs whose only genuine own revenue is from water sales, the level
of charges for water and thus of their revenue will heavily depend on political decisions which will have to
take the social situation into account
Conclusion
Indonesia's national economic and fiscal crisis has assumed proportions not seen in the country for
decades. A reasonably complete assessment of all its economic, social, and political implica-tions is not
even remotely possible at the time of writing (May 1999). Certainly, though, the implementation of the
EJUDP II has been very adversely affected, and planning for future, similar projects will have to be based
on very different assumptions and projections.
1/ This paper, written in May 1999 by the team leader of the PPMO Advisory Team and slightly revised for this
ICR, attempts to present some basic aspects of the national financial and economic crisis which hit Indonesia
from the second half of 1997 onward, and the most important effects of this crisis on the implementation of the
EJUDP II, as far as they were known by May 1999. It does not claim to be a scientifically sound analysis, and it
does not deal with general economic and political problems.
2/ This was announced by the Director General Ciptakarya during his visit to the EJUDP II on 20 July 1998.
-45 -



Additional Annex 12. The Project's Response to the Crisis
Section 1: The Program of Labor Intensive Projects
General Strategy
With the onset of Indonesia's economic crisis, GOI and the Bank agreed in January 1998 to revise the loan
fund structure to the effect that US$ 22.0 million were cut from the disbursement category "non-SLA
funded civil works" and re-allocated to two newly created disbursement categories, namely Padat Karya
(labor intensive works) projects in all 37 local governments of East Java, including Kota Surabaya, (US$
15.0 million), and Padat Karya projects in all 4 provinces of Kalimantan (US$ 7.0 million). It was agreed
that for these two new disbursement categories 100% loan funding would be applicable, and no counterpart
funding would be required. These Padat Karya projects were supposed to be small civil works projects of
simple nature, which could be quickly launched and could provide jobs, especially for unskilled labor. It
was intended to focus on regions where the job losses as a result of the economic crisis had been most
acute.
Of then allocated funds, Rp. 26.7 billion (equivalent to roughly US$ 2.6 million at the then exchange rate)
were allocated in the budget for FY 1997/98, and virtually this whole amount had been contracted by July
1998. All in all, the Padat Karya program for FY 1997/98 comprised 685 contract packages, allocated to
685 different contractors, at an average contract value of Rp. 39 million (equivalent to less than US$
4,000). With this average package volume, it would have taken more than 5,000 contracts to absorb the
amount of US$ 22.0 million. This would probably have overtaxed the institutional capacities of all local
and provincial governments concemed.
Total labor force absorbed was reported to be about 372,000 person days, i.e. more than 540 person days
per contract package on the average. However, the number of persons employed did not correlate very
closely with the value of each contract package.
Implementation Problems
PPMO and PTCU had difficulties in shouldering the quality assurance responsibility, as their monitoring
resources did not suffice to cope with an unforeseen additional workload of such magnitude. Kanwil PU, as
the agency responsible for the planning of the program, had allocated only Rp. 289 million (equivalent to
about US$ 28,000) for management support, barely over 1% of the program's total cost, or an average of
Rp. 422,000, equivalent to US$ 40, per contract package. The close involvement of PPMO and PTCU, as
demanded by the Bank in the aide memoire of the March 1998 supervision mission, thus encountered grave
difficulties. For the activities implemented in Kalimantan, the responsibility for quality assurance etc. had
obviously been given to the agencies there. PPMO had no direct evidence on how far the Bank's stipulation
has been met, namely that the program be carefully targeted toward those areas where the unemployment
problem was most severe.
During the Bank Supervision Mission in July 1998, a number of Padat Karya projects were inspected (in
Kabupaten Sidoarjo, Mojokerto, Jombang, Bangkalan, Sampang, and Pamekasan). Apart from technical
imperfections which are not specific to Padat Karya projects, some serious flaws were detected in design
and implementation, and in fact in the whole approach. They included:
Flaws in regional targeting: it appeared that all the projects implemented in Madura contributed little to
-46 -



addressing the problem of rapidly increasing unemployment. Even a quick survey of the region conveys the
impression that agriculture, trade in agricultural produce and daily goods, and the public sector are the
mainstays of the island's economy. None of these sectors had been particularly hard-hit by the economic
crisis. Inquiries from residents also confirmed that relatively very few jobs had been lost in recent months.
This is also reflected in the comparatively high wage level used in the Padat Karya projects. When asked
about this, the sub-project manager explained that such high wage levels were adequate in view of other job
opportunities in agriculture, notably in tobacco production. This leads to the conclusion that Padat Karya
projects actually competed with other available jobs for less-than-abundant manpower, which is not what
they were supposed to do. Apparently, it had been provincial government's desire to let all local
governments enjoy a share of those projects, without a really clear focus on those areas where recent job
losses and a rise in unemployment had been most severe.
Flaws in social targeting: from inquiries made in Mojokerto it became evident that most job losses there had
occurred in the shoe manufacturing sector, affecting mainly young women. These women, however, could
hardly be absorbed in the Padat Karya projects which comprised mainly manual labor in road and drainage
construction, activities for which young women are hardly suitable nor inclined. This is reflected in the
relatively small number of local workers (from the particular village where each project is implemented). In
other words, the Padat Karya projects have only been moderately successful in reaching those population
groups suffering most from job losses, and ways will have to be found to achieve an improvement (perhaps
outside the P3KT sector).
Flaws in groiect design: several cases with serious design flaws were found: in Mojokerto, a MIIP project,
namely the construction of walkways between the market stalls, was designed without any regard for
drainage, so that in fact a previously reasonably well drained market area may now feature large pools of
stagnant water because the elevated walkways block the water run-off totally. The excuse that local
government would later construct some drains is not convincing as it is not at all clear when that would
happen, and it would in any case imply that the walkways would have to be partly removed again. In the
same project, a temporary storage site for solid waste was built in a place totally inaccessible for motor
vehicles, making removal of the waste impossible. Again it was said that local government would build an
access lane later, but the storage site will be totally idle until then, and in any case it seems very inefficient
to build an access lane which is to be used by only three to five vehicles a week. - In Pamekasan, a newly
built, concrete-lined tertiary drain of considerable gradient and capacity was found to connect to a
secondary drain consisting only of a very simple earth ditch of much lesser gradient and capacity, so that
there are bound to be flooding problems were the two connect. It could not be explained when and how the
capacity of the secondary drain shall be adjusted to match that of the tertiary drain.
Flaws of work planning and implementation: in one case in Pamekasan, a newly completed neighborhood
lane was damaged by the trucks bringing more building materials to the site. This happened because the
lane was constructed beginning from the main road into the settlement area so that delivery trucks had to
pass over the newly, but lightly, built lane. It would have been more practical to start construction at the far
end of the lane. - In another location, the sides of a neighborhood lane dam had been made only from
coarse coral stones without adequate lining, resulting in sand getting washed out from under the pavement
blocks which will result in serious damage within a short time. It was not clear whether this was more a
design flaw or more a short-coming of implementation and supervision. - In Sidoarjo, a drain was found
with good-looking concrete lining on the upper parts of the walls, but no lining on the lower parts. It was
stated that this should follow later, but such a work organization would require a second mobilization of the
work force (the project was presented as completed). There remained the impression that this was rather a
case of poor supervision (the design drawings clearly showed that the lining was to cover the whole wall
-47 -



surface).
General: The percentage of each project's total budget spent on labor was found to be much less than had
been expected, if not downright disappointing, ranging from about 17% to about 33%, with 20% to 25%
being typical (this could be calculated from the stated number of man-days used, the wage scale, and the
known total project budget). This raised the question as to whether these projects could be considered labor
intensive at all, compared to other projects without that label which have, as a rule, a similar cost structure.
Reaction
In reaction to these findings, the Bank suggested that regional and social targeting of the program be
improved, to make sure it really addressed the problem of unemployment where it was most acute. The
Bank also suggested that detailed project planning and implementation be improved, specifically the
involvement of the local community be considerably strengthened. Thus, each local governnent was to
form a body for this purpose, involving representatives of local government itself, of local institutions of
higher education, and of local NGOs.
Thereupon, PPMO and their advisory team prepared the required imnprovements for project implementation
during FY 1998/99. These improvements were to include:
*      institutional aspects, such as criteria for the selection of personnel for project implementation;
*      establishment of proper work procedures;
*      definition of criteria for selection of pro-ject type and location;
*      strengthening of project implementation units through intensive training.
For FY 1998/99, it was envisaged to implement projects worth about Rp. 48 billion in 35 local government
areas throughout East Java in the fields of kampung improvement, market improvement, improvements to
drains, and improvements to fishermen's villages. These projects were to pay increased attention to the
general objectives of the program, i.e. alleviation of unemployrment where it was most acute, creation ofjob
opportunities for the worst-affected population groups, and transparency of project planning and
implementation. To support this program, PPMO and the provincial training center (Pusdiklat) were to
implement a training for the executive officers from each local government. Additional intensive training
was to be carried out by the PPMO Advisory Team.
However, during the Bank's November 1998 supervision mission it was decided that the implementation of
labor intensive projects under EJUDP II should not be continued, bearing in mind that in the meantime
numerous other programs had been launched with a specific focus on combating poverty. With letter of 15
December 1998, Bappenas suggested that the remaining funds allocated to Padat Karya projects be
re-allocated to other projects, especially those which experienced difficulties in counterpart funding, under
the condition that they were "labor based". Thus, the planned training activities were cancelled, and no
firther Padat Karya projects were implemented under the umbrella of the EJUDP II.
Section 2: The PDAM Rescue Program
Background
1.    Rescuing the PDAM was first initiated in 1999, when Bappenas requested Bank's assistance for
-48 -



the Utility rescue program. The Bank responded to the request and confirmed the support for the
development of a Water Utility Rescue Program, by applying ASEM (the Asian-European Meeting Funds)
to implement the program. The objectives of the PDAM Rescue Program are: (a) to assist water utilities
(PDAMs) in surviving the crisis; and (b) to improve the PDAM's operational and financial efficiency,
consistent with the overall direction indicated in the Bank's Indonesia Urban Water Supply Policy
Framnework Paper of 1997, and the GOI's Water Supply and Sanitation Policy Framnework for Urban and
Rural Areas (Draft, August 2001).
2.     Six PDAMs in East Java Province joined the PDAM Rescue Program. These are: Blitar, Kab.
Tulungagung, Kab. Bangkalan, Madiun, Kab. Malang, and Kab. Lumajang. The first five PDAMs have
completed their Financial Recovery Action Plan (FRAP), approved by the respective Bupati/Mayor/DPRD
and submitted to MOF to obtain approval for debt rescheduling. MOF has accordingly approved debt
rescheduling for all five PDAMs. PDAM Kab. Lumajang, the' last PDAM under the second batch program,
has also forwarded its FRAP to MOF for debt'rescheduling which is presently being processed.
Implementation of the Program
3.     During the period of June 2001 to March 2002, the Bank visited cities with PDAMs under the
Program (Blitar Kab. Malang, Bangkalan, Tulungagung, Kota Madiun and Kab. Lumajang). At most of
the PDAMs, the mission found generic issues which are widespread, with varying degrees of magnitude:
service interruption and declining service quality; low tariffs; inefficient collection method and timing; high
UfW; idle capacity; inefficient distribution of supply; poor water quality; slow connection growth; weak
management; low coverage; overstaffing; dividend payrnent to Pemda, sometimes even if the PDAM did
not have a net income, The FRAP, prepared by each PDAM with the assistance of the PDAM Rescue
Consultant, addressed these problems by suggesting some rehabilitation, optimization of existing water
sources, acceleration of new connections, tariff increases, improvement of collection period, etc.,
4.     From the five PDAMs in East Java (excluding Lumajang), the following facts and figures were
noted (in Rp. Million):
Original           Debt Service      Amount paid under       Investmnent
Loan                Arrears           the Program            Needed
24,451               5,741               6,994                16,676
From the original loan of Rp. 24.4 billion, Rp. 7.0 billion or about 29% have been paid to MOF.
Only two out of five PDAMs (Kab. Tulungagung and Malang) have debt service arrears that are not yet
due. The investments agreed under FRAP for these PDAMs amounted to Rp. 16.7 billion. Some of these
investments were to be financed by the local government (Kab. Bangkalan and Madiun). In Blitar the
financially weakest PDAM that participated in the Program obtained full financial assistance from the City
in the amount of Rp. 1.1 billion.
5.     The Mayor of Blitar was invited to participate in a video conference between WB-Jakarta and WB
headquarters since Blitar was the first PDAM to implement the Program. The participants was impressed
with the Mayor's positive outlook and the financial support provided to the PDAM, and felt that Blitar can
be a model for other PDAMs.
6.     Simplified FINfRPO Model. Prior to preparing FRAP, all PDAMs were asked to prepare a
financial projection using the simplified FINPRO model developed by the Bank. The PDAM Rescue
Consultant provided support and assistance in preparing the FINPRO. Now, the finance unit in most
PDAMs haves been provided with the basic FINPRO principles and some of them are now able to prepare
and update the FINPRO on their own.
- 49 -



Debt Rescheduling
7.     On January 14, 2002, MOF launched a policy to allow for debt rescheduling on a case-by-case
basis, depending on a PDAM's track record of paying its obligations, even if it is being consistently
responsible for only a portion of its debt service. Under this policy, the PDAMs will be grouped into two
categories: (i) those who have made regular payments for obligations, even if these were only partial
payments; and (ii) those who have never paid their obligations. For the first category, the following will
apply: (i) the administration fee interest and penalty up to an agreed date will be paid on a pro-rata basis of
equal payments until the end of the repayment period, with no imposed interest; (ii) administration fees
accumulated up to the due date during the rescheduling period will be paid based on amounts agreed during
approval of the application for rescheduling. Penalty will be imposed on payments not made as committed.
Any unpaid balance will be paid in equal payments for the remaining repayment period. For the second
category, the following will apply: (i) administration fee is interest unpaid as of cut-off date; it will be
capitalized and will be added on to the principal, meaning that there will be imposed interest again; (ii)
penalty up to cut-off date is written off; and (iii) administration fee interest during the rescheduling period
will be paid based on amounts agreed during approval of the application for rescheduling. Penalty will be
imposed on payments not made as committed. Any unpaid balance will be capitalized and added to the
principal amount and will be imposed interest again accumulated up to the due date. Until now, the MOF is
still looking for fair approaches on debt rescheduling. The Cabinet meeting in March 2002 has initiated
discussions and identified this issue as a national affair.
Meeting with PDAMs
8.     During the ICR mission, a separate meeting was held with some PDAMs. Present were PDAMs
Madiun, Kab. Malang, Kab. Tulungagung, Kab. Bangkalan, Kab. Lumajang and Kab. Pacitan (only
Pacitan is not under the Rescue Program). The meeting noted that all PDAMs under the Rescue Program
have implemented the FRAP. However, some PDAMs have to revise and update the FRAP and FINPRO
due to unexpected changes within or beyond the control of the PDAM. As the ASEM consultant has been
demobilized, the PDAMs have to do the revision of FRAP and FINPRO by themselves. This is not very
likely for some of them as they have problems beyond their control, particularly associated with natural
disasters (floods in Bangkalan). Kab.Malang and Kota Madiun were noted to have implemented the FRAP
successfully. In Madiun, the PDAM was able to finance an additional connection as a result of debt
rescheduling. In Kab. Malang, production capacity was increased, and tariff was increased to Rp. 880/m3
which is much higher than planned. The investment program has progressed by about 30% and will be
completed in March 2003. Revenues have increased significantly.
9.     Management.inefficiency is one of many reasons for poor performance by most PDAMs. The
PDAMs indicated that there are other reasons beyond their control that have also contributed to their
unfavorable financial status. The high cost of operation due to increases in power, fuel and material could
not be covered by the present tariff. Too little intervention/support by local executive and legislative
authorities is also considered as a reason for declining PDAM performance.
10.   The PDAM representatives strongly felt that government should urgently devise very structured
policies aimed at remedying these issues. All agreed that the implementation of the Second East Java UDP
has been effective in improving services. However, basic policy changes, as proposed in the Bank's Water
Supply Policy Framework in 1997, and later on updated by the Government in August 2001, following the
International Seminar in May 2001, have not been fully implemented. With increased capacity of the
financial staff of PDAM in preparing FRAP and FINPRO, the respective PDAMs will be in better position
to access to the Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project, now being prepared by Kimpraswil, to be
proposed for Bank financing.
- 50 -



Additional Annex 13. Efforts to Promote Good Governance
Section 1: The Incentive Program Phase I
During FY 1997/98 the idea was conceived to offer, besides the fixed Program of EJUDP II, additional
funds amounting to a total of US$ 2 million for the funding' of special projects under an innovative
approach labeled as "Incentive Program". On the basis of an outline paper prepared by PPMO and their
advisory team in early 1998, PPMO initiated the process of selecting local governments eligible for the
incentive Program, i.e., local governments2 that had demonstrated a good performance in the
implementation of IUIDP projects.
During and after the Bank's supervision mission in July 1998 it was decided that the assessment of good
performance should be based on a number of criteria which would essentially cover the following fields of
urban management:
1.     Urban Development Planning,
2.     Project Preparation and Coordination,
3.     Project Implementation Supervision,
4.     Functionality and Benefit of Projects,
5.     Financial Management,
6.     Organizational and Personnel Management,
7.     Management of Private Sector and Community Participation,
8.     Environmental Management,
9.     Community Perception.
To increase efficiency, the assessment was divided into various phases:
(a)    self-assessment in writing by each local government, using a questionnaire prepared under
the guidance of PPMO (for all 35 local governments then participating in the project);
(b)    desk analysis, i.e., evaluation of such self-assessment, and incorporation of appraisal by
provincial government (such as deduction of points for known deviations from standard
procedures), under the guidance of PPMO (for all local governments that had submitted the
questionnaire mentioned under,
(c)    field visits to selected local governments, for verification of local governments'
self-assessment, and for incorporation of local communities' perception (for 12 local governments
shortlisted in;
(d)    Identification of local governments eligible for the Incentive Program (combination of
findings under (b) and (c)).
It had been agreed with the Bank that the assessment team should comprise not only members from
provincial government but also from Gapensi (the contractors' association), from the universities, and from
local NGOs. This is reflected in the relevant decree issued by the Chairman of Bappeda Tk. I.
The design of the questionnaire was done, very intensively, in August and September 1998. Twenty-seven
completed questionnaires were received form the 35 local governments that had been approached to
participate. The desk analysis of these 27 questionnaires, and the incorporation of additional aspects, were
- 51 -



conducted in September and October 1998. It resulted in 12 local governments being short-listed for field
visits, which then took place in October and November 1998 and yielded the following results3:
Table: Result of local government performance assessment, and allocation of Incentive
Program funds
Allocated Incentive
Ranking    Kabupaten/Kotamadya           Final Score      Program Funds
(in million Rupiah)
1       Kabupaten Pacitan             454.287               2,200
2       Kabupaten Nganjuk             443.016               2,200
3       Kabupaten Tuban               425.981               1,800
4       Kabupaten Tulungagung         423.457               1,800
5       Kedin City                    421.691               1,800
6       Kabupaten Magetan             413.641               1,800
7       Kabupaten Trenggalek          411.561               1,800
8       Kabupaten Bojonegoro          407.210               1,800
9       Kabupaten Pasuruan            394.303               1,600
10       Kabupaten Pamekasan           389.192              1,600
11       Kabupaten Mojokerto           384.889              1,600
The Incentive Program was welcomed quite enthusiastically by most local governments and assessed
positively by the Bank. Therefore it was decided that another Incentive Program would be implemented,
based on an assessment specifically of the transparency of the project procurement process. The
preparations for that Incentive Program Phase II began towards the end of FY 1998/99.
Section 2: The Incentive Program Phase II
Following the positive experiences under Incentive Programn Phase I, it was decided that a second phase of
this Program would be launched, based on an assessment of the transparency of the project procurement
process. Another US$ 1.0 million was allocated by the Bank for this purpose, with disbursement conditions
identical to those of the first phase. The preparations for this Incentive Program Phase II began towards the
end of FY 1998/99. During FY 1999/2000 the assessment of transparency was carried out with
considerable use of resources in all local governments except in Kabupaten Sidoarjo, whose participation in
the EJUDP II has been suspended, and except in Kabupaten Kediri whose local government declined to
have its procurement procedures evaluated. This assessment process identified five l6cal govermments
which had shown the highest degree of transparency in their project procurement. The evaluation committee
suggested that the top three of these be rewarded with an amount of some US$300,000 each, proportional
to their point score in the evaluation.
- 52 -



The evaluation results and proposed Incentive Program fund allocations are as follows:
Table: Evaluation Results and Proposed Fund Allocations for the Incentive Program Phase n
Allocated Incentive
Ranking    KabupatenlKotamadya          Final Score      Program Funds
(in '000 Rupiah) *
1       Kabupaten Malang               3,378             2,700,500
2        Kabupaten Tulungagung         3,090             2,437,500
3        Kabupaten Bondowoso           3,068             2,362,500
*    The allocated funds of US$ 1.0 million had been converted at to Rupiah at an exchange rate of
US$ I = Rp. 7,500; the total Rupiah denominated budget was thus Rp. 7,500 million
The general fnding during the transparency appraisal process was, that for tenders among contractors in
class A and B, there was normally a fairly clean and competitive procurement process, at least as far as the
tender committees' work is concerned. Bid manipulations, if any, originated mainly from among the
contractors themselves. For tenders among contractors in class C, on the other hand, there is considerable
evidence that the tender committees frequently handled the tendering process in a manner that resulted in
noncompetitive contract awards.
The projects proposed by the winning three local governments were appraised in the second half of 2000
and implemented from late 2000 till mid-200 1.
Section 3: The UPT Development Program
The UPT- Development Program seeks to simplify and re-organize permit issuing procedures and other
documentation procedures at local government level, by establishing one-stop service offices which would
take over from the technical agencies a large part of their permit issuing activities, also the issuing of birth,
death, and marriage certificates etc. The development of UPT is therefore not merely a mechanism of
putting the permit application and issuance in one office, improving the permit system, and computerizing
the permit process. It inherently requires restructuring of the institutional arrangements and changes in the
mind-set of the executives, legislatives as well as the public (customers) to achieve better management and
services. The UPT development is one of the efforts towards good governance and management in public
service delivery, particularly the permit issuing system, and it is thus a long-term process requiring strong
commitment from all parties. Furthermore, it is inevitable that the development of UPT offices involves
political dynamics between line agencies, and between legislative and executive. The Bank also sees that
the commitment of local government including the local legislature towards a demand-responsive permit
system varies,
- 53 -



During the Bank's supervision mission in July 1999 it had been decided that the UPT Development
Program was to be financially supported by the Bank with an amount of US$ 2 million from Loan No.
4017-IND. The Bank's letter dated 13 September 1999 defined more clearly the support which the Bank
was willing to give to this Program, and the conditions under which it would lend this support. The
intention to continue rendering support to the UPT Development Program had been the main reason why
GOI and the Bank agreed to seek a second extension of the loan closing date, this time from 31 March
2001 to 31 December2001.
Conceptual and Organizational Preparations
As a first step, the Chairman of Bappeprop East Java wrote in late 1999 to all local govemments and
invited them to submit proposals. In early 2000, 25 proposals were received but none of them met the
specifications that had been given in the Chair-man's letter. It was therefore concluded that the whole
Program needed a clearer focus. This was achieved by intensive discussions, complemented by several
study visits, amongst others to Gianyar (Bali) and to Sukoharo (Central Java). A special UPT
Development Team was formed, comprising representatives of PPMO, of the PPMO Advisory Team, of
PTCU, and of the Bureau for Organization in the Provincial Secretariat.
As a next step, this UPT Development Team defined a clearer and more realistic UPT Development
Strategy. This strategy was presented to the decision-makers in July 2000 and accepted as the basis for
further work.
PPMO the had some intensive communication with the Bank regarding the most suitable approach for
providing the necessary input and assistance to local governments, coupled with adequate supervision. This
concemed mainly the following aspects:
*      Procurement of computer hardware and software, including the Bank's review procedure;
*      A study into the possibility of abolishing / combining / simplifying certain permits and
decentralizing the permit issuing procedure;
*      Customization of the UPT standard software that had been developed by the MoHA for the newly
defined system of permits at each local government;
*      An awareness-raising campaign directed at UPT managers, Dinas heads, and selected members of
local parliaments (local legislature);
*      A technical training regarding operation and further adjustment of the UPT software.
PPMO considered that the local government agencies in charge of procurement of computer hardware and
software for the UPT would not have prior experience in Bank funded procurement. Therefore, such
procurement would have to be classified as "first contract" and fall under "Bank's Prior Review"
procedures.
However, it was agreed that PPMO would prepare a standard bidding document for all local governments
under the UPT Development Program, that the Bank would clear this standard bidding document, and that
this procedure then permitted local governments to go ahead with the tendering.
The PPMO Advisory Team considered several altemative options of providing the required technical
assistance to the participating local governments, as follows:
I.     all participating local governments would procure and implement the required technical assistance
individually and fund it from their own resources;
- 54 -



2.     all participating local governments would procure and implement the required technical assistance
individually, and such technical assistance would be funded from the loan;
3.     provincial government would procure and implement the required technical assistance centrally and
such technical assistance would be funded from the loan.
The PPMO Advisory Team presented to PPMO and to the Bank that option No. 3 was probably most
appropriate, with a minimnum of procurement administration, optimum synergy effects between the
sub-teams looking after each participating local government, and an optimum of supervision possible.
Option No. I would make an effective quality control and assurance nearly impossible, and Option No. 2
would imply a rather cumber-some procurement procedure, combined with impeded supervision and badly
reduced synergy effects.
PPMO, the PPMO Advisory Team, and the Bank discussed these options and their implications in a
meeting on 27 October 2000 in Jakarta. The Bank decided (as documented in the Bank's letter to PPMO,
dated 14 November 2000) that option No. 2 was to be implemented, with the argument that this was
consistent with the national drive toward decentralization, and that a certain degree of technical inefficiency
would presumably be more than offset by the commitment of local governments.
In hindsight, though, on the basis of all information obtained, including from the formal super-vision and
controlling of the implementation, there are some indications- that the Bank had over-estimated the
commitment of local govemments, and that the various inefficiencies and implementation deficiencies had
been very much underrated.
Technical Preparations
Technical preparations for the UPT Development Program were made in parallel to the organizational
preparations. An important element was, to define clearly the theoretical technical specifications for the
required computer hardware and software. PPMO prepared these specifications which then formed the
basis of a Technical Meeting which was implemented in August 2000. That Technical Meeting yielded
specific Bills of Quantities for the computer hardware and software required by each local government, in
addition to existing facilities. These bills of quantities, together with price estimates, provided the basis for
the necessary amendments to the national budget (specifically the DA-DPD documents), and later on for
the preparation of the tender documents and the launching of the procurement process.
PPMO the prepared the standard bidding documents for the required computer hardware and software, and
for the required technical assistance. These documents were approved by the Bank and were consequently
used by the participating local governments in the procurement process.
The PPMO Advisory Team detected a major technical error on the CDs on which the UPT standard
software was distributed by the MoHA. The problem was discussed with the Ministry on 30 March 2001 in
Jakarta, and the necessary technical rectifications were initiated by the Ministry.
The PPMO Advisory Team procured all the computer hardware and software required to set up a
"simulated UPT office" in PPMO's premises. This was done for purposes of testing the standard UPT
software supplied by the MoHA and all the other software and hardware that was to be installed at the
local UPT offices, and for purposes of simulation, demonstration and training, mainly aimed at the
consultant personnel, specifically the IT specialists, who were to be deployed to the participating local
governments. The IT specialists of the PPMO Advisory Team successfully carried out this testing,
- 55 -



simulation, demonstration, and training.
Seminars and Study Trips
To assist the planning and implementation of the UPT Development Program, PPMO implemented a series
of seminars and workshops, from November 2000 till December 2001, with details as follows:
1.    in November 2000, a large two-day seminar was staged in Surabaya, for high-ranking
representatives of the executive and of the legislative branches of the participating local
governments; this workshop was to achieve an increased political awareness, including an
awareness of the advantages and the feasibility of a fimctioning UPT unit; the seminar was
therefore combined with a two-day comparative study trip to Kabupaten Sukoharjo in Central
Java;
2.    in late March and early April 2001, three regional seminars were staged in Surabaya,
Ngawi, and Situbondo; their objective was, to reinforce the political awareness among the decision
makers, to refocus such aware-ness toward the operational objectives, specifically toward the
necessary procurement procedures;
3.    in late June and early July 2001, three more regional seminars were staged in Surabaya
and Tretes; their objective was, to guide the newly contracted 14 PPMO Advisory Teams regarding
the technical assistance they were supposed to deliver to the participating local governments, in the
conduction of the ACSD studies as well as in the customization of the standard UPT software;
4.    in October 2001, three workshops were staged in Tuban and in Batu, near Malang; their
objective was, to review the work progress achieved by the PPMO Advisory Teams so far, the
implications of their findings, and necessary corrections to their work; therefore, in these
workshops local govermments were not grouped by geographical region but according to work
progress;
5.    in December 2001, after the official end of the assignments of the 14 local government
consultants, and just before the loan closing date, three final workshops 1. were staged in Batu;
their objective was, to review the work progress achieved by the consultants till the official end of
their assignments, the implications of their recommendations, and any further work that needed to
be finalized by the consultants before their definite demobilization; also, local governments were
required to prepare and present clear plans for follow-up action, e.g. regarding the formalization of
legal documents such as the regional regulations ("Peraturan Daerah") and similar, and regarding
the provision of adequate operational budget for the UPT offices.
The IT professionals and one of the institutional development experts in the PPMO Advisory Team
received some special training, as follows:
*the two IT specialists received a training in the handling and customization of the UPT standard
software, this training was implemented in Jakarta by the MoHA in June 2001 (two days duration);
*the senior institutional development expert in the team received a training in legislative drafting which
was implemented in Jakarta in July 2001 by the University of San Francisco (two weeks duration).
- 56 -



Procurement Controlling and Monitoring
With its letter dated 14 November 2000, the Bank had decided that the control-ling and monitoring of all
procurement (physical as well as non-physical) in the context of the UPT Development Program should be
handled by PPMO, including the task to issue No-Objection Letters (NOLs) on behalf of the Bank. The
Bank also suggested to use simplified procedures for all procurement (physical as well as nonphysical).
The first step of PPMO was, to call representatives of all participating local govermments for an
information meeting which was held on 12 January 2001 in the premises of Bappeprop. During that
meeting, the local government representatives were told to launch as soon as possible the procurement of
computer hardware and software, and of technical assistance, and they were told that they needed to have
the technical assistance assignments completed by 30 September 2001.
In the following, PPMO provided the participating local govermments with the tender documents approved
by the Bank and rendered intensive assistance in the procurement process. This was reinforced by the
workshops mentioned above.
Even so, the progress in procurement was generally very slow and PPMO grew increasingly alarmed about
this, in view of the loan closing date on 31 December 2001. Therefore PPMO felt compelled to issue a
letter to all other local governments, informing them that the delay in procurement was nearly unacceptable
and that any local governments which had not completed the procurement of computer hardware and
software, and of technical assistance, by end of June 2001 would have to be excluded from the Program.
Eventually, all procurement was officially completed by end of June 2001. However, the con-sequent
intensive implementation monitoring revealed that in several cases the official completion of the
procurement and the official mobilization of the consultant had made only negligible impact on the ground.
Implementation Controlling and Monitoring
As soon as the computer hardware and software had been reported as delivered, the mobilization of the
consultant had been reported as completed, and the workshops mentioned under paragraph 3) above had
been implemented, PPMO began to conduct intensive monitoring of actual implementation in the field. This
was done through field visits which were conducted from late July 2001 onward. The results of these
supervision visits were often rather alarning in the sense that the official mobilization of the consultant had
rarely resulted in a reasonably continuous and complete presence of professional staff in the field. This had
also affected the envisaged examination of the delivered computer hardware and software, which was one
of the consultants' tasks.
Likewise, a bad delay was observed in the submission of the Inception Reports by the consultants. By 15
August 2001, only 2 out of 14 such Inception Reports had been submitted to PPMO, even though by that
date about 30% of the consultants' total assignment period had already passed.
Under these circumstances, PPMO felt again compelled to address the problem emphatically and officially,
by writing letters to each local government (the Regent or Walikota, the Chairman of the Legislative
Assembly (DPR), and the technical agencies concerned). The letters, written in mid-September 2001,
warned the local governments of the possible consequences if the implementation of the technical assistance
assignments was allowed to be delayed further, namely a cancellation of the loan funding for the UPT
- 57 -



Development Program in the respective local government
The next step of implementation monitoring and controlling were the workshops implemented in October
2001. Following this, another round of field visits was conducted in November 2001. These visits revealed
that significant progress had been achieved since September 2001, but they also revealed that there were
still substantial delays and deficiencies, both in the work of the consultants and in the preparations for
which local governments were responsible.
Follow-Up Action
The technical assistance assignments at local level contractually expired on 30 November 2001, but a
substantial portion of the overall work Program was yet to be finalized. Therefore, PPMO asked local
governments to prepare appropriate plans for the required follow-up action. During a last series of
work-shops, conducted in December 2001, the participating local governments and their consultants
reported on:
*the work results they had achieved by then (i. e. after the official expiration of the technical
assistance assignments),
*the issues that remained to be resolved and on the way this was to be achieved, and
*the operational preparations, especially on the available organizational structures, personnel, and
budget which were in place to guarantee a smooth operation of the UPT offices from January 2002
onward.
The resulting action plans constitute an agreement between Bappeprop and local governments, and their
implementation was monitored by Bappeprop from January 2002 onward through a number of field
inspections. To provide incidental technical assistance, Bappeprop procured some limited consultant
services until the end of May 2002. Field inspections in 5 locations (Bangkalan, Pamekasan, Probolinggo,
Situbondo, and Tuban) were conducted during the ICR Mission in May 2002.
Outcome by May 2002
The results of Bappeprop's monitoring of the progress of the UPT Development Program are documented
in a special report (see Annex 7, No. 3), and its contents were partly verified during the ICR Mission. In 4
local governments (Pacitan, Kediri City, Nganjuk, and Situbondo), the factual improvements achieved as a
direct result of this program appear to be negligible : there has neither been any. noteworthy progress in
institutional development, nor any noteworthy progress in the installation of computer systems or the
development of customized software. 6 more local governments run their UPT offices but with only minor
improvements, compared to the pre-project situation, e.g. still manually or with a very limited scope of
services. 4 local governments (Tuban, Ngawi, Lamongan, and Probolinggo City) have now established
fully operational UPT offices that are significantly improved, compared to the pre-project situation, more
or less in accordance with the plans. This includes adequate air-conditioned office facilities and operational
computer systems (local area networks with server and client computers, computers with touch screens
which give the public access to unambiguous information, and peripherals) and customized software. The
administrative requirements, and the cost and time frame for the issuance of documents, are now
transparent. In most of these UPT offices, human resources are sufficient in quantity and qualification, and
there is sufficient operational budget. Local governments of Lamongan and Tuban have procured additional
technical assistance from their own budget, to stabilize and reinforce the outcome of the project. Local
govemment of Tuban has introduced a more adequate compensation structure for UPT staff, consisting of
- 58 -



basic salary and performance based incentives, in an effort to eradicate the charging of illegal fees.
With the many activities described above, the Bank and PPMO had anticipated that only few, if any, local
governments would be able to satisfactorily complete the whole restructuring process before the loan
closing date, i.e. within one year. It was only expected that local governments will finish all basic elements
of such a restructuring process, pending further activities to establish a well-functioning UPT. Given new
local government structures and functions due to the decentralization policy, with stronger roles of the local
legislature and a more critical public, the establishment of a well-functioning UPT needs continuous
commitment and efforts. In Gianyar, an often visited positive example of UPT establishment, the process to
form an UPT as an office in its own right took no less than eight years.
During the ICR mission, the Bank visited the UPT offices in Situbondo, Probolinggo, Bangkalan, and
Tuban and was pleased to observe that all local governments except Situbondo had made some progress
compared to their situation in December 2001. The Regent of Situbondo will follow-up the agreed action
plan soon, although he is aware that it will take some time to realize it as intended. The other three local
governments have made efforts to implement the action plans agreed in the December 2001 workshop,
despite the continuous difficulties in creating a uniform perception among the relevant line agencies and the
with the local legislature.
I/ It was agreed that the funding would be 100% loan with no counterpart funding required, like for the labor
intensive projects (see separate Annex).
2/ Including their water supply bodies (PDAM).
3/ During the field visits, local government of Kabupaten Sampang could provide only insufficient evidence for its
positive self-assessment and was therefore dropped from the shortlist.
4/ Short for Unit Pelayanan Terpadu, literally: Integrated Service Unit.
5/ Such as the sluggish progress of procurement and implementation of the technical assistance assignments.
6/ By 15 May 2001, the only local government which had its consultant mobilized was Kabupaten Lamongan.
- 59 -



Additional Annex 14. Technical Assistance Assignments
tUe of Assign_e DensuIti g Film                            Actual lDuratlon I R mark
Central Level Agencies
DED and Supervision for National Roads  PT Krda Pratama     Apr. 1998 - Dec. 2001
_____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ ____ A dhicipta_    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Advisory Services to the Executing Agency  PT. Arkonin      July 1998 - Dec. 2001
Development and Training for Modular   PT. Infratama Yakti  Sept. 1999- Sept. 2000
Sanitation Systems                     PT. InfatmaYati      Set._99-_ep._00
Greater Malang Urban Road Network Study  PT Lenggogeni &    Dec. 1999 - Nov. 2000
April 2000 - Dec. 2001, for both
Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation  PT. Bina Asih & Assoc. the EJUDP II and the Surabaya
UDP (IBRD Loan No. 3726-IND)
Advisory Services for Private Sector                        Cancelled
Participation                             .                 Cancelled
Provincial Level Agencies
Sept. 1997- Dec. 2001
Initially Doxiadis &  Assignment was combined with
Advisory Services to PPMO              Assoc., later on PT.  the 4 assignments for "Project
Advisory ServicestoPPMOA               cTritunggal P. Konsultan and Financial Management
Support" (see below) and re-
tendered in April 2000
Project and Financial Management Support  PT. PAS & Assoc.  Dec. 1997 - March 2000
Region 1
Project and Financial Management Support  PT. Tritunggal P.  Dec. 1997 - March 2000
Region 2                               Konsultan
Project and Financial Management Support  PT. Seecons & Assoc. Jan. 1998- March 2000
Region 3
Advisory Services to PTCU               PT. Kogas Driyap &   Jan. 1998 - Dec. 2001
Assoc.
DED & Supervision for Water Supply Projects, PT. Bina Karya &  Sept. 1997 - Nov. 2001
Western Region                         Assoc.
- 60 -



DED & Supervision for Water Supply     PT. Tritunggal P.     Sept 1997 - Nov 2001
Projects, Eastem Region                Konsultan & Assoc.
DED & Supervision for Urban Road Projects, PT. Yodya Karya &  Sept. 1997 - Nov. 2000
Westem Region                          Assoc.
DED & Supervision for Urban Road Projects, PT. BIEC & Assoc.  Sept. 1997 - Nov. 2000
Eastem Region
DED & Supervision for Non-Water Supply,  PT. Indah Karya &   Sept 1997 Oct 2001
Non-Urban Roads Projects, Eastem Region  Assoc.                P         -  .
Feasibility Study for Composting of Solid
Waste in Malang City                   Michael Page et. al.  July 1998 - Sept. 1998
Project Financial Auditing and Monitoring  PT. Pangripta Loka  July 1997 - Dec. 2001
Services (PFAMS)                        _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _     _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _
Advisory Services for RIAP             -PT. Bina Asih         Dec 1997 - Aug. 1999
Advisory Services for POMMS            PT. MLD & Assoc.      Sept. 1997 - June 1999
Advisory Services for LIDAP                                  Cancelled
Technical Audit, Priority Targets and   PT Bina Asih          Oct. 1997 - March 2001
Performance Indicators                    .
PDAM Performance Monitoring & Evaluation PT. Bumi Prasidi    Oct. 1997 - March 2000
(PPME)                                 PT.Bum_  Pasii_Ot.I_97_-Mach_00
Greater Malang Traffic Management and  MottMacDonald &       Oct. 2000 - March 2001
Public Transport Study                 Assoc.
Training of Civil Servants             Assoc.                June 1998 - March 2000
Malang City Agencies
Project and Financial Management Support  PT. Koga Driyap &  May 1998 - March 2000
Assoc.
Unaccounted-for Water Study                                  Cancelled
DED & Supervision for Water Supply                           Cancelled
Projects
May 1998 - March 2000
Discontinued because of
DED & Supervision for Non-Water Supply  PT. Bina Karya & Assoc. consultant's poor performance,
Projects                                                     remaining works combined with
Water Supply Projects, Eastem
Region
Social and Environmental Studies in the  PT. Tiang Lima      March 1998- Dec. 1999
Context of Resettlement
Advisory Services for Solid Waste and  PT. Reka Spasia &     Jan. 2001 - March 2001
Sanitation Management                  Assoc.
-61 -



Additional Annex 15. Chronology of Efforts to Prepare a Follow-on Program
1995            GOI and the Bank begin to prepare the Second East Java Urban Development Project
(EJUDP II) as a bridging program between the previously implemented East Java - Bali
Urban Development Project and the proposed East Java Strategic Regional Development
Program (EJSRDP).
1995            On behalf of GOI, the Bank requests the Japanese Government to make available a grant
fund for the preparation of the EJSRDP.
1996 (?)        Japanese Government approves a grant fund of US$ 600,000 for the said purpose, to expire
on March 31, 1999.
April 1996      The Staff Appraisal Report for the EJUDP II mentions-the preparation of the EJSRDP as one
key objective (see Section IV.B. "Project Objectives", para 4.4 (c)). This program is
envisaged to begin in FY 1999/2000.
13 Dec. 1996    Loan No. 4017-1ND for the EJTJDP II becomes effective, and implementation begins.
1998            BAPPENAS refuses to approve the launching of preparations for the EJSRDP with the
argument that the implementation of EJUDP II was unsatisfactory.
Feb. 1999       Provincial Program Management Office (PPMO) for the EJUDP H prepares a strategy paper
for the preparation of the EJSRDP; this paper envisaged the utilization of the Japanese grant
fund for three technical assistance packages.
March 1999      The said strategy paper is discussed in Surabaya between PPMO, BAPPENAS and the
Bank. It is agreed that the preparations shall be speeded up.
31 March 1999   The Japanese grant fund expires before being utilized.
April / May 1999 PPMO prepares ToR for the three envisaged technical assistance packages even though
funding is uncertain.
24 June 1999    The strategy for the preparation of the EJSRDP is discussed in Surabaya with the Director
General Cipta Karya.
17 July 1999    During a supervision mission, the strategy for the preparation of the EJSRDP is discussed in
Surabaya between the Bank, 0OI, the province, and selected local governments.
Aug. 1999 - Dec. The ToR for the three -envisaged technical assistance packages are revised and combined into
1999            one single package.
Jan. 2000       BAPPENAS approves the use of funds from Loan No. 4017-IND for the preparation of the
-62 -



EJSRDP.
Feb. 2000       PPMO again revises the ToR for the envisaged technical assistance package with a view to
launch some activities as soon as possible.
17 April 2000   Upon request from PPMO, BAPPENAS again requests the Bank to help identify a grant fund
for financing the preparation of the EJSRDP.
April 2000      PPMO changes the setup for preparation of the EJSRDP, whereby a baseline study will be
carried out under a technical assistance assignment funded from Loan No. 4017-IND.
2 May 2000      The preparation strategy for the EJSRDP is discussed again (informally) between PPMO and
BAPPENAS.
July 2000 -     A baseline study focusing on regional manifestations of poverty and unemployment, on
March 2001      selected technical topics, and on institutional capacities is carried out under the technical
assistance assignment Urban Development Program Management Support, funded from Loan
No. 4017-IND.
- 63 -



Additional Annex 16. Special Problems and Issues
Improvements to National Roads
The By-pass Road Proiect in Nganiuk
A northern by-pass road for Nganjuk was included in the EJUDP II from the start, and it was to be the
biggest single project in the program, to be implemented by the central government agency for highways.
The project was to provide a dual carriageway by-pass road of just under 7 km length on the northern side
of Nganjuk town.
On the basis of the original cost estimate, a budget of approx. Rp. 30.2 billion was provided. Later on,
however, a more accurate owner estimate was made, and it resulted in a figure of approx. Rp. 19.8 billion
only. During the tendering process, the lowest bid for the project was approx. Rp. 12.9 billion (i.e. 65% of
the owner estimate, and equivalent to about US$ 1.3 million at current exchange rates), and a contract was
made on this basis. With this development, a very substantial residual budget remained, and over time GOI
agencies came up with several ideas for the utilization of this budget.
Work commenced on 1 July 1999, the contract provided for a completion period of 600 days, and the
implementing agency thus set 16 March 2001 as the target date for completion. Soon, however, the project
encountered serious problems which slowed down its implementation very seriously.
The aide memoire of the December 2000 supervision mission lists the following main reasons for the ever
growing delay: "(i) poor detailed design by the consultants (the soil condition is poorer than anticipated in
the design and thus the thickness of the sub-base needs to be increased); (ii) delay in the approval of the
revised detailed design by central government and by the local irrigation agency; (iii) poor performance of
the contractor, and (iv) poor supervisionr."
In addition, the project manager reported that there were problems in obtaining the counterpart furds from
central government in a timely manner.
Throughout 2000, provincial government observed the implementation delays with increasing concern,
urged the implementing agency to instruct the contractor to speed up the work, and requested the Executing
Agency to seek speedier pro-vision of counterpart funds. However, none of these efforts brought an
effective remedy. By 16 March 2001 the project was still far from completed, and a compromise was
sought which would provide for at least a partial completion until the loan closing date.
The project's completion status by 31 December 2001 was as follows: about 40% of the total alignment
length have been completed as a dual carriageway road with tarmac surface and median; about 20% of the
total alignment length have been completed as a single carriageway road with tarmac but without median,
whereby only the sub-base has been completed for the second carriageway; for the remaining 40% of the
alignment length, only the sub-base has been completed for both planned carriageways.
Technically, it is possible for vehicles to use the completed sections (60%) of the by-pass, but they have to
use a smaller road and revert to the existing main road before the uncompleted section. With this, most
transit traffic through Nganjuk town still uses the old road (which is a fairly wide four lane road without
congestion problems), and the benefit of the completed section appears to be minimal'.
- 64 -



The By-pass Road Project in Krian
In a design similar to the planned Nganjuk by-pass (dual carriageway with median, about 6 km long), a
northern by-pass road for Krian town ( Kabupaten Sidoarjo) was planned under the EJUDP II. This project
was implemented without major problems and completed in mid-2000. Some design revisions were made
and resulted in contract amendments during implementation. This by-pass is now fully operational and
constitutes a very substantial benefit, especially for the transit traffic which now uses this by-pass almost
exclusively (the old road through Krian town is now only used for local traffic). However, local
government has permitted intensive industrial development to take place along both sides of the new road
with direct access to it, and informal, small scale commercial operations are beginning to establish
themselves along the road shoulder. These developments may in the future reduce the benefit of the new
by-pass road to some extent.
The Urban Ring Road Projects in Pasuruan and Probolingao
As early as 1999, when it became apparent that there would be a very substantial residual budget from the
Nganjuk by-pass road project, Dinas Bina Marga East Java proposed2 two urban ring road projects for the
towns of Pasuruan and Probo-linggo, basically as rehabilitation and widening of existing smaller roads,
namely a southern ring road in Pasuruan and a northern ring road in Probolinggo. In 1999, the total cost
for these two projects together was estimated as approx. Rp. 1.3 billion, but this was later revised to
approx. Rp. 4.3 billion. A detailed feas-ib-ility study was submitted to the Bank in November 2000. The
cost estimates presented in that study were approx. Rp. 3.6 billion for the southern ring road in Pasuruan
and approx. Rp. 2.9 billion for the northern ring road in Probolinggo
The main problems were: (i) in Pasuruan, the western section of the proposed road project would cut
through a residential area and displace a high number of small furniture makers, and the Bank questioned
the feasibility of eventually making this road function as national road, as had been envisaged by Dinas
Bina Marga, (ii) in Probo-linggo, the proposed road project would pose social problems for a fishermnen
community along the coast, and it would be a dead-end road of nearly no immediate benefit, unless and
until another 3 kmn road section would be built by GOI from its own resources.
After lengthy communication between the province and the Bank, the June / July 2001 supervision mission
paid specific attention to this project proposal, and it was eventually agreed with the Executing Agency that
only the eastem part of the proposed ring road in Pasuruan would be implemented. This was done in the
second half of 2001 at a cost of about Rp. 3.3 billion, or about 90% of the estimated cost for the whole
southem ring road. The feasibility study had projected an average daily traffic of about 6,000 passenger
car units on the southem ring road in Pasuruan for 2002, and an annual increase of 6%. The current real
traffic volume on this partly completed ring road, however, is much lower.
- 65 -



The Modular Sewerage Project in Malang City
It had been one focus of the EJUDP II to try and spearhead some fundamental improvements to the
management of domestic waste water in congested urban areas. Malang City, the biggest urban settlement
under the program, seemed to lend itself well for this purpose, especially since there was an example of a
purely community driven sanitation project, located in the Tlogomas neighborhood (Kelurahan). In that
location, a progressive community leader had over the years persuaded the residents to collect money and
build a simple sewerage pipe network and a simple treatment plant equipped with a series of oxidation
ponds whose effluent was then discharged into the river. This scheme had become widely known, and the
community leader was even invited to the World Bank HQ to present his project.
On the basis of that positive example, the EJUDP II envisaged to implement two similar, but larger
projects, each one to cover three neighborhoods in a modular approach, i.e. consisting of a number of small
pipe networks, each with a connected treatment plant3 the idea was to have these projects implemented on a
grant basis but to charge the residents connection fees (Rp. 200,000 per connection) which would be
accumulated and form a revolving fund from which new house connections would be funded, leading to full
utilization of the treatment plants (whose capacity would only be 30% utilized by the end of the project).
Municipal government of Malang City would implement the projects and operate the treatment plants, but
the operation and maintenance of the house connections and pipe network would be handled by newly
formed community based organizations, the LPPL-.
The first of these two schemes was planned in the neighborhoods Jodipan, Mergosono, and Cipto-mulyo,
all lower class or lower-middle class income neighborhoods, with a budget of Rp. 4.8 billion. Malang City
conducted social preparations, essentially an environmental awareness campaign and the collection of
written commitments from residents to connect their houses after the completion of the pipe network. 80%
of the households in the envisaged service area committed themselves to this. Physical implementation of
this project began in July 1999 and was contracted for completion in early 2000. However, vehement
protests in Jodipan (although apparently only from a small minority group led by an NGO) resulted in the
cancellation of that component, and local govemment proposed that the physical volume of that component
be shifted to the other two sites. That, however, would have implied additional design work, additional
social preparations, and an extended period of physical works.
To support physical project implementation and sustained operation of the system by the community and
the LPPL, the project secured the cooperation of CLEAN-Urban, a project funded by USAID. A MoU was
signed between the Mayor of Malang and CLEAN in 1998. A local NGO was mobilized, and it provided.
three fulltime comrnunity facilitators who helped develop the LPPL into potentially effective operating
institutions. After the expiry of the CLEAN project in 2000, the LPPL were further assisted by NGOs
under contract with AusAid, upon an initiative by the Bank.
Physical implementation in the locations Mergosono and Ciptomulyo was very much slower than had been
expected. Amongst others, in a clear case of poor project management, the contractor found out towards
the end of 1999 that essential parts for the construction of the pipe net-work were not available in the
market and had to be substituted with similar parts of lower quality, or else the construction of the pipe
network would have to be discontinued. On top of that, unforeseen land acquisition problems surfaced in
Mergosono. The responsible agency in Malang City reported all sorts of unexpected obstacles, including
disagreements with the local communities over the way in which the construction should proceed. Repeated
monitoring by provincial government revealed a deplorably poor quality of the civil works, such as pipes
that were not properly connected, manholes that could not be opened, and similar. The poor quality of the
- 66 -



civil works remains the responsibility of the implementing agency of Malang City, and the municipality has
indicated its willingness to use its own funds to rectify this.
On the grounds of this experience, the envisaged second project was called into question, although the
social preparations (supported by a team from CLEAN, a project funded by USAID) had reportedly
progressed fairly well. As the implementation delays in the first project grew ever worse, PPMO decided in
July 2000 to cancel the second project, fearing that it could not possibly be completed before 31 March
2001 which was the agreed loan closing date at that time.
As per 31 December 2001, the first project has only yielded a scheme with much fewer house connections
than had been planned. This will not only result in a technically less-than-optimal operation of the treatment
plants, but also in a significant revenue shortfall for the LPPL. There is now a danger that, with such a
revenue shortfall, the funds collected from connection charges will be used to subsidize 0 & M costs, and
that the establishment of the planned revolving fund will not materialize. This would render the whole
approach unsustainable. All in all, this project has so far been rather disappointing, in its technical results,
and in its likely sustainability.
In view of this danger of poor financial and organizational sustainability, Malang City has made available
substantial additional funds (Rp. 540 million in FY 2002) to improve the system and support sustainability.
The Executing Agency has promised funding for further technical assistance in FY 2003. A local NGO is
to provide additional support. The collected connection charges are under the management of the LPPL and
will mainly be used for additional house connections.
If this project is successful and sustainable it will be one of 34 similar projects in the Malang region. Most
of these project have been implemented by the communities themselves with simple technology, and they
are seen as appropriate choices for the improvement of poor urban neighborhoods and as possible
alternatives to the more expensive and sophisticated large scale sewerage systems.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Problems in Malang City
Urban Renewal Proiect Kutobedah
Located in Kutobedah, an inner-city low-income neighborhood largely consisting of squatters on an
abandoned grave-yard, this project was meant to improve the physical infrastructure in the area, and to
clear the Brantas riverbank of illegal settlers in the context of the "Clean River Program" (Program Kali
Bersih = ProKaSih). At first it was envisaged that all houses closer than 15 m to the river would be
removed but this was later reduced to the row of houses closest to the river. Many but not all of these
houses had been built on an unstable and erosion prone slope. The households whose houses were to be
removed would be offered either flats or site-and-services plots as compensation. In any case, the
households to be resettled were to receive additional cash compensations for the value of their previous
house, according to a transparent and uniform standard, and for the cost of moving.
In 1998, PPMO urged Malang City to incorporate these resettlement plans into a more comprehensive area
development concept. Amongst other things, it was feared that the so-cleared riverbank areas would be
quickly re-occupied by new settlers, regardless whether the City considered this permissible or not. Besides
that, it was felt that the envisaged project for the provision of basic infrastructure (prasarana bingkai) in
this haphazardly developed area needed to be based on some form of comprehensive concept. The City then
developed a plan which also envisaged that the cleared riverbank areas would be used for a new access lane
-67 -



which would improve the quality of the neighborhood so significantly that the residents themselves would
protect it from re-occupation.
However, several critical issues remained to be resolved. One of them was the availability of land for
resettlement. Malang City had assured the Bank during the July 1998 supervision mission that it would
secure 3.0 hectares of unoccupied land for resettling the households who chose site-and-services plots.
Another issue was the presence of a private housing development which had acquired the land from Malang
City some years earlier and would obtain a windfall gain from the public sector funded infriastructure
improvements. In March 1999, the Bank dispatched a resettlement specialist to help sort out these
questions.
The collection of sound information on the area and its population, on the need and the options for
resettlement, and on technical, social, and legal requirements, turned out to be much more time and
resource consuming than had been anticipated, and it absorbed a significant share of the Bank's and of
PPMO's total manpower resources. Eventually, the Mayor of Malang City issued a decree (SK Walikota)
which laid the legal basis for the identification of the households to be resettled, and for the mechanisms of
resettlement and related compensation.
As time went on, however, Malang City turned out to be unable to secure the envisaged area of unoccupied
land (see above), and ended up having to acquire back some land from the developer. Besides that, Malang
City identified and developed some pockets of suitable land that had originally not been earmarked for
resettlement. However, Malang City did not provide sufficient budget for the compensation to resettled
households and the land certification, in accordance with the Mayor's decree. In other words, Malang
City's bureaucracy failed to implement the decree of its own Mayor consistently.
Observing this development over several supervision missions, the Bank grew increasingly concerned. After
the July 2000 supervision mission the Bank felt compelled to address the Mayor seriously and in writing,
by letter dated 6 September 2000, informing him that continued nonimplementation of his decree by his
own administration would endanger the loan funding for this project The December 2000 supervision
mission focused very much on these problems and brought them to the attention of Bappenas which in turn
caused Bappenas to write to Malang City and express its concem.
During 2001, strategies were developed to salvage the project Some of the various deficiencies in basic
infrastructure were overcome through intervention from provincial government under the P3P program.
Malang City, through its new PMO staff since late 2001, made other efforts to rectify its past failures and
assured the November 2001 supervision mission of its seriousness to solve all related problems. Malang
City also assured the ICR mission of its determination to solve the remaining problems of relocation,
compensation, and land certification for another 44 families before the end of 2002 on the legal basis of
another Mayor's Decree, dated 6 May 2002. The elimination of this project from the EJUDP II was thus
avoided.
Road-and-Bridge Construction Gadang-Bumiavu
The road network in Malang City suffers from a lack of east-west connections across the Brantas River.
The road-and-bridge link Gadang-Bumiayu was meant to remedy this by providing an additional east-west
connection. The project consisted of two contract packages: one for the bridge across the river, and another
one for the road to both sides of it. From the start it was known that the project involved problems of land
acquisition and resettlement. On the eastern side (Bumiayu) some land needed to be acquired, and several
houses and a mosque needed to be removed. On the western side (Gadang) the road alignment would cut
- 68 -



through the middle of an existing wholesale market, requiring the relocation of a large number of traders.
During the November 1998 supervision mission, Malang City described its budgetary constraints and
requested to reduce the scope of the project so that on the eastern side (Bumiayu) the road from the bridge
would not connect directly to the main road, as had been planned originally, but only to a local road
through which traffic would then flow to the main road. The mission approved this modification.
Land acquisition, the relocation of houses, and related compensation on the eastem side were done without
significant problems. However, there were considerable problems on the westem side. Initial surveys by
Malang City resulted in erroneous data because they counted only the traders in major fixed kiosks.
However, a double check by the Bank and PPMO revealed that there were hundreds of other traders who
would be displaced as well, and Malang City was asked to redo its baseline survey. As soon as this was
done the magnitude of required resettlement became obvious, and a Mayor's Decree (SK Walikota) was
prepared and eventually issued for this project, too.
The provision of substitute trading facilities tumed out to be a very difficult task. Malang City constructed
a new market facility but it was far too small and could only accommodate about one third of the displaced
traders. Plans were drafted to either create more trading space on the land of the adjacent bus tenninal, or
to relocate traders to a more remote section of the existing market. The latter option would require the
construction of a better and wider access road for which, in turn, more markets kiosks would have to be
removed. Meanwhile, a group of traders submitted a written protest to the City Council, claiming that they
not only were given no compensation for their relocation but even asked to pay for the substitute facilities.
The Bank and PPMO noted these difficulties with great concern. Like in the case of the Kutobedah project
(see above) the Bank felt compelled, after the July 2000 supervision mission, to address the Mayor
seriously and in writing, by letter dated 6 September 2000, informing him that continued
nonimplementation of his decree by his own administration would endanger the loan funding for this
project The December 2000 supervision-mission focused very much on these problems and brought them
to the attention of Bappenas which in turn caused Bappenas to write to Malang City and express its
concern.
Malang City, through its PMO staff appointed in 2001, made efforts to rectify its past failures and assured
the November 2001 supervision mission of its seriousness to solve all related problems. Malang City also
assured the ICR mission of its determination to complete the still missing physical facilities (access lane,
electricity) before the end of 2002. The elimination of this project from the EJUDP II was thus avoided.
The suspension of the PDAM and the local government of Kabupaten Sidoarjo from the program
According to the plans, local govermnent and PDAM of Kabupaten Sidoarjo should have been two of the
most important agencies under the project, in terms of the financial volume of their programs (including
two SLA applications of approx. Rp. 12 billion (local government) and approx. Rp. 13 billion (PDAM),
equivalent to more than US$ 5 million each at the exchange rate of early 1997, or approx.-US$ 1.3 million
each at 2001 exchange rates). However, problems developed out of the plans of PDAM to involve a private
investor in a Private Sector Participation (PSP) scheme,without going through the procedures agreed upon
between GOI and the Bank. The purpose of this cooperation is, to increase the supply capacity to 200 I/s in
Kabupaten Sidoaro ( Kabupaten Sidoarjo borders directly on Surabaya City, absorbs a large part of
Surabaya's urban sprawl, and faces a rapidly increasing demand for water).
- 69 -



Cooperation with that private sector partner began in November 1997, on the basis of the "in principle"
approval given to PDAM Sidoarjo by the Minister of Home Affairs in his letter dated 4 July 1997. In the
aide memoire of the Supervision Mission of March 1998, the Bank stated that the PSP scheme was likely
to affect the repayment of the loans already extended to the PDAM under previous bank projects and that
further loan disbursements should therefore be suspended until a full review by the Bank had been made.
On these grounds, Bappenas informed local government of Kabupaten Sidoarjo (in their letter dated 10
June 1998) that it was considering to stop the issue and payment of the further SPABPs and SLAs for all
components of the EJUDP Il in that regency. Consequently, PPMO held several meetings with PTCU as
well as local government and PDAM of Kabupaten Sidoarjo, in order to identify the steps and actions
necessary to guarantee that the objectives of the EJUDP II be achieved. PDAM Sidoarjo agreed to submit a
comprehensive report about the envisaged PSP scheme, a thorough financial justification demonstrating
that the PSP scheme does not affect its repayment obligations from the previous IBRD loan No. 3304-IND,
and a formal statement on its further intentions regarding the conclusion of a SLA under the EJUDP II
program.
During the Bank's supervision mission in July 1998, the Regent of Sidoarjo declared to PPMO and the
Bank that his local government intended to stick to the PSP scheme, even at the risk of being suspended
from the further program under EJUDP II. Given this position of local government, Bappenas felt it had no
other choice than declaring such a suspension, which then became effective in July 1998. With this, the two
SLA applications of local government and of PDAM Kabupaten Sidoarjo were frozen, and all other loan
fund disbursements were suspended in-definitely as well. This suspension reduced the physical scope and
the financial volume of the EJUDP II program quite considerably.
The withdrawal of the PDAM of Malang City from the program
From the outset of the EJUDP II, the water supply program in Malang City had been the biggest single
component of the project, with a financial volume of more than Rp. 33 billion (equivalent to more than US$
13 million at the exchange rate of early 1997, or about US$ 3.4 million at 2001 exchange rates), to be
funded through an SLA.
Soon after the start of the project, however, PDAM Malang City engaged in talks with a prospective
private investor, to explore the possibilities of a PSP scheme. This, and especially the fact that the selection
of the private investor had not followed established guidelines, caused a considerable degree of uncertainty
and intensive discussions about the implications which such a move by PDAM might have.
The PSP scheme was presented fornally by PDAM Malang City in April 1998 in Bappenas. The
presentation of this scheme was chaired by Bappenas and attended by representatives of the Executing
Agency, of MoHA, of MoF, and of PPMO. As a result of that meeting, it was agreed that PDAM Malang
City would finalize the negotiations with the private sector party by 15 May 1998 and would inform
Bappenas about the result before signing the contract with that party.
Following the Bank's letter dated on 14 April 1998 which indicated that the Bank would suspend
disbursements to PDAM if that PSP scheme materialized, PPMO asked PDAM for a formal statement
regarding the status of their proposed SLA. Through their letter of 25 May 1998, PDAM stated to the
Bank that they wished to reduce the total amount of their SLA from Rp. 33 billion to Rp. 10 billion,
allegedly on the grounds of a consultation with Bappenas. Bappenas, however, denied having agreed to
- 70 -



such a revision.
In his letter of November 1998, the Mayor of Malang City in his capacity as chairman of PDAM Malang
City finally declared that PDAM wished to refrain from all major investments, mainly on the grounds of its
tight financial situation. PDAM retracted its SLA application and opted out of the EJUDP II altogether. As
a consequence of this, the planned two technical assistance assignments related to the water supply
component in Malang City had to be cancelled as well. This development reduced the physical scope and
the financial volume of the EJUDP II program considerably.
I/ Apart from the benefit in the form of an increase in land prices along the by-pass alignment which has not been
investigated, neither in terms of quantity nor in terms of factual beneficiaries.
2/ See also aide memoire of March 1999 supervision mission
3/ The treatment plants were to be Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket (UASB) plants.
4/ Short for Lembaga Pengelolaan Prasarana Lingkungan, or Environmental Infrastructure Management Boards
(they had originally been named BPPL, Badan Pengelolaan Prasarana Lingkungan).
- 71 -



Additional Annex 17. GOI and Provincial Comments on the Draft ICR
3FWAlbuor @7  W01&
~:MINIRRY OP! 3LMEMES AND RIO! OAL 3fRAMTU MtRS
3L taflhw N. U2 ~uw"uma Bam-bssq lang uS313no TW (Mal 3mBIW, FMa Mi a
()LT Pdf.!                                    31at    M.zoDz
lb. KeuuVvanM
Sedor ohr
Urban bsvelopmnet S   Uit
Eat Age aid Pacfc Rem
I818 H Set H.W.
y     , ng"i. DXC 204.33
USA.
Re       $Scauui Iadt Jmv 11o Dwevgpmmt Pu.Jet(amn 4U7-ZNW
_Deasum auG  "'nent ewdu m    of Pci  mn
Dear Pt. VIav Vww
Rdehing to your lellr ded 31 M1a2 20112 h&ewth, we are pleased tI Iwwsrd th
Ind,dent Gtwpmnt EvalukrnU   Piedt IM*emb      for gec=d East .
LUrban D OPWM ft*)eCSE3UDP).
As It was Atwkd in MIm Dnk's Drt IER thate  nd  g Xm LbP Is rated
s9acrV, the QVweit d InDiruu rouId aset It as wall rd hcppirkg to hae
fideMoptpmer for utoheI bMWy orftM Pto
We Uwak you ht YWr t Dw = aerao! L
Shyw* Yws,
BudIiisn *rl4f
O0to, Ginr of Uiban and RuraE idepiwtt
Ca
i. M4r. MN wabd. Counby redtrf Wejr7d 3nk OWffc lniMta
2. Thne twoemo oEaz baa Wvnc
3. Cbhlra of Regbion Dwvidpmuit Ft*rutg bOwsi Ego m fnc
.. Pietr of Urbn and Rial Dewdopmentr Bapp mas
s. iruief seememn and Lktban Dopmnmt Bppena;
o ViteCWr of EEarnuI Fi, h,OF
7 DOlv rf Ca 'e  sgi  DGIM4, MSPI
S Dilkm ef TenkN Dw*1   i  DGURD. M J
9 East v PPMo am 'QiJ
- 72 -



- c] -
.~~d~ ..... ...3U .UeetIm #dO
nn   *fl*6fl . .......... . . .f... ..m... I..a.. - ..., ggkw   patalim   .
t  --.-..-.-  -~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ - 6     ] RI  
tumso  ao.mmi
J3EOVd JNDIdClUAIG WVU'WRAVC IMh GNEXIUS 11d
UMOVCVU ZDUKMIMaS DJAMNUd 30 ID



ILIi
liii!                              u.~~~f
1!I  a.-                                 
od ~C                                               ".
slt                            i.



It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Ii ~~~~~~i
P6~~~~~~~~~~~~~&
8j1  I jf



~~~~ I             a~~~~~~~~~~~
Ip
4i~~~u.



-  ~~~~~16~~~~~  g~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~j  ~~~~44S' 
Art            V_..
;~~~~~~~j1~~~~~~~~~~u.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1
~~'s4 ~~~~~~



(Ifu~                   2 
F3~~~~~~~~
I                  - CD                         I g
y~~~  r        aURA:            I~~~~~~~C
I                 _            -I~"A
I                    i~~~~'j ~~~~Jf  'ii  ! ii'~~~~~~i
1.111411  ~~~~iiI0~~  i  flu-  ddthd~AD



I  Hi ti~~~~' tenj!:I p  p ~~~~~INM
~jjfri~ ~Ifr ~ gi1~~I 'lb
act~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r WInS  2  .0 s
1 .4             IlL              a~~~~~~~~~~~a
.1                   d~~~~~~~~~a



rj ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
I,g~~
31S.-  JFS~~ _  *.
m      7j!~   ~~~1



VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ei v~ 
113  a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
I i             i~~~~~~~~~~~'r
"I id~~~~3~~            daJt
IL.~  ~           I
di     ri



ICL~"
In ~ I 



6mw~bars~u~tHir* A,im
ANNEXA8
40O4I4MU PEZvEUflPRaaN: BAPFEM
- 83 -



EL        N
I~~~~~~~~~C
2 ~~~~~~ 



~ibj
- I$
j~~~ii!~Al &                          ll



ro~~~~~~~-
-         I~~~~~~~t
Itjv,~  
11~~~~~~~i
II  ~~              oj!..~~~;IcLIII4
I u



Compenet DI: G6d tvewnmient Iniciathw
In early phme of the i    opIentaffn   of One-Raof Permit Systenm (UPriNt
Peayarnn Perthnan Te%WPdu) rgram, the Prwyince wa      ed to se Local
Governments' cadtmert to retomn their poiy, espedaSly In skrniftg  the
pernrts proedue and ddetpung authority tD 1w UPr I  pin Woling arid bisw te
pert from the fo      indat  . Il4wever, due to the dimeulie In elablUsing
the Loc Goemnment RegLitIwn (Patan Dwuh) to' suppost te UPrr, then the
program studks for tHir OPetatim Foaely, S ot of 14 UPT have std their
eperation tough thie Petda hea not been baued, but tir peration baned gr
OupatMW    alw deuee.
3.   Lassom losned
a.   Im genaral, bhe mispom ent In physical Irp1#emenb*Oi1 pts occiued
due to ie lak of PIU ad Local Go.rmnens kEwuledge on Ut  a  pt of
thie project; the Ba k's gcukdlnes In prememt nd the 10an 04R0fts
OMP,     Eawm  uu    ImpadAsum   Ker  UK4/UPL. etc.). While the delayed
sub-prqects w    caused by wd aoculsIm and resItmei* pablems ad
the   tnm dof Go fund Mxatlon. TeretC Vpr9ject preparwon edm39
PlUs, Land acquitlom and bldlng comrnuiiHly  _ tawerm shourd be doe
b&me the aloc1iin of tie bdget
b.   The b;d uie pbrlu'ung sOi  be taken into aao f tor all the pa*ts in
gorder to *o4 sodal and ertArorrnentail wObleM
c.  In  WMre COM4es, lrlth   0ab/atn to tie Loc1 Prtlaet (DPRb)
regard9 r ie eepeet md proLt back gwrld kI so ncssary to sgi2rt a
suInuble d*wvpdnti espeftly fgr a pdok n*Ivn proect whdlc need a
nrw NCu"s (eitr fymm thr     Perda or Poairan Penurb'teh of Cenra
Govero r   t t  upport Rs lmremeatlon.
14
- 87 -


















71iRMAGIMG
Report No.:        24038
Type:     lCR



