Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4017 IND
Loan Agreement
(Second East Java Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 23, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4017 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
“(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Annual Project Implementation Plan” and “APIP” mean Memoranda 
Pelaksanaan Program Tahunan (MPPT) the annual action plan adopted among East Java and 
each Participating Local Government and its respective PDAM  pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A.1 (b)(ii) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the Borrower 
and includes any successor or  successors thereto;
(c)
“East Java” means the Borrower’s Province of East Java;
(d)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower or the fiscal year of 
Participating Local Governments, both commencing April 1 and ending March 31;
(e)
“Implementing Agencies” means the central, provincial and local agencies, 
departments and units responsible for Project implementation and coordination referred 
to under Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and “Implementing Agency” means any 
of the Implementing Agencies;
(f)
“MHA” means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Borrower and includes any 
successor or successors thereto;
(g)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and includes any 
successor or successors thereto;
(h)
“MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower and includes any 
successor or successors thereto;
(i)
“Participating Local Government” and “Participating LG” mean any of the 
local governments listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(j)
“Participating PDAM” means a PDAM, as hereinafter defined, operating in 
any Participating LG;
(k)
“PDAM” means Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum, a water enterprise, established 
by and operating in a Participating LG pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s 
Law No. 5 of 1962, Law No. 5 of 1974, Decree No. 26 of 1975 of MHA, and Joint Decree 
of MHA No. 3 of 1984 and MPW No. 269 of KPTS of 1984, as any of the same may be 
amended from time to time;
(l)
“PDAM fiscal year” means the fiscal year of any of the Participating 
PDAMs commencing January 1 and ending December 31;
(m)
“Performance Indicators” means the technical, physical and financial 
targets included in the APIPs to monitor the performance of Participating LGs and 
PDAMs pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(n)
“PPMO” means Provincial Project Management Office established and 
operating within the Provincial Development Planning Agency in East Java pursuant to 
SK Gub No. 185/95 dated September 20, 1995, issued by the Provincial Governor of East 
Java;
(o)
“Project Affected Persons” and “PAPs” mean persons who on account of the 
execution of Part A.1 of the Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or  (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired 
or possessed, temporarily or permanently adversely affected; or (iii) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, and “Project 
Affected Person” and “PAP” means individually all those who qualify as Project 
Affected Persons;
(p)
“Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum” and “PPIM” mean the 
memorandum of understanding agreed between the Borrower and East Java pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as such Memorandum may be amended 
from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
(q)
“Resettlement Action Plan” and “RAP” mean a resettlement and 
rehabilitation action plan to be prepared by any Participating LG or Participating 
PDAM pursuant to the Resettlement Guidelines, as hereinafter defined;  \0c
(r)
“Resettlement Guidelines” means the framework approved by the Provincial Governor of 
East Java pursuant to SK Gub No. 44/96 dated April 16, 1996, describing procedural and 
institutional aspects pertaining to land acquisition and the resettlement, 
rehabilitation and compensation of PAPs under the Project, as such Guidelines may be 
amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
(s)
“Rupiah” means Indonesian Rupiah, the currency of the Borrower;
(t)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(u)
“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure investment project  
described under Part A.1 of the Project;
(v)
“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower to a Participating LG or a Participating PDAM under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(w)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower, represented by MOF, and Participating LGs and Participating 
PDAMs, pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, and “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” 
and “SLA” mean any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and 
(x)
“UKL/UPL” means the environmental management and monitoring plans 
prepared by East Java in accordance with the Borrower’s national guidelines for 
environmental assessment and mitigation established by Government Regulation 
No.51/1993 of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred forty-two 
million seven hundred thousand dollars ($142,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of 
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of 
such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund:
(A)
the Bank's investments; and 
(B)
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 
bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii)
‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
Page  5
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of the 
Loan the amounts allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement  to Participating Local 
Governments and Participating PDAMs under subsidiary loan agreements entered into 
between the Borrower and each Participating Local Government and the Borrower and, 
each Participating PDAM, respectively, under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the following principal 
terms and conditions:  (i)  the amount repayable under each Subsidiary Loan shall be 
the Rupiah equivalent at the time of withdrawal of such proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the 
interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding of a Subsidiary Loan shall 
be payable at a fixed annual rate of 11.75%; (iii)  the commitment charge shall be 
payable on the amount so on-lent but not yet withdrawn from time to time at the rate 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) 
the repayment period of each Subsidiary Loan shall be up to twenty (20) years, 
including a grace period of up to five (5) years.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs, on a grant basis, the amount 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), and (3)(b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in accordance with terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into a provincial program implementation 
memorandum with East Java on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including 
those set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements and Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Project and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or the 
Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
Page  6
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower, including the Participating PDAMs, responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information con\1fcerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that:
(i)
no Participating PDAM shall incur any debt unless a reasonable 
forecast of the 
revenues and expenditures of such Participating PDAM 
shows that the projected 
net revenues of such Participating PDAM for 
each PDAM fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be 
at least 1.3 times the projected debt 
service requirement of such 
Participating PDAM in such year, the previous PDAM 
fiscal year and the 
next PDAM fiscal year on all debt of such PDAM including 
the debt to 
be incurred; and
(ii)
each Participating PDAM, except for those PDAMs in the 
Participating LGs of 
Bondowoso, Pacitan and Trenggalek, produces 
Page  7
for each of its fiscal years: (A) 
through January 1, 1999, gross 
revenues from all sources equivalent to not 
less than its 
operating expenses; and (B) after January 1, 1999, gross 
revenues from all sources equivalent to not less than the sum of its operating 
expenses and depreciation.
(b)
For purposes of this Section: 
(i)
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of a Participating PDAM 
maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it 
is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for 
such debt or further modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date 
of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues of such Participating PDAM” means gross 
revenues of a 
Participating PDAM from all sources, adjusted to take 
account of such 
Participating PDAM’s tariffs in effect at the 
time of the incurrence of debt 
even though they were not in effect 
during the twelve-month period to which 
such revenues related, 
less all operating expenses of such Participating PDAM, 
including 
expenses accountable to administration, maintenance and taxes (or 
payments in lieu of taxes), but before provision for depreciation of assets 
and interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term “debt service requirement” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(v)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by a 
Participating 
PDAM in the PDAM fiscal year in which the debt in 
question is to be incurred, 
which both the Bank and the 
Participating PDAM accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has 
notified the Participating PDAM of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results of such Participating 
PDAM.
(vi)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of a Participating 
PDAM not allocated to cover 
specific liabilities.
(vii)
The term “gross revenues from all sources” means the sum of 
revenues from all 
sources related to water operation, house 
connections, and cash consumer 
contributions in aid of 
construction, but excluding non-operating income and 
any other cash 
inflows.
(viii) The term “operating expenses” means the sum of all expenses 
related to water 
operations, including maintenance and administration, 
but excluding 
depreciation.
(ix)
The term “depreciation” means the annual provision charged against 
revenues to 
depreciate, on a basis acceptable to the Bank, the current 
value of the water 
fixed assets in operation as valued from time to time 
in accordance with 
methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
(x)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of  Rupiah, debt payable in another currency, such 
Page  8
valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes 
of servicing such debt, or, with 
the absence of such rate on the basis of a 
rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
4.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary 
to enable each Participating PDAM  to adjust its tariffs by not later than October 31, 
1996, and thereafter by January 1, 1999 to meet the requirements of said Section.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that no Participating LG shall incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of 
the revenues and expenditures of such Participating LG shows that the projected 
non-grant and local revenues for a Fiscal Year minus the projected routine account 
expenditure on staff administration and routine operational and maintenance needs of 
such Participating LG for each Fiscal Year during the term of the debt to be incurred 
shall be at least 1.5 times the projected debt service requirement of such 
Participating LG in such year on all debt of such Participating LG including the debt 
to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of a Participating LG 
maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it 
is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for 
such debt or further modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date 
of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term “debt service requirement” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(iv)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by a 
Participating LG 
in the Fiscal Year in which the debt in question is 
to be incurred, which both 
the Bank and the Participating LG accept 
as reasonable and as to which the 
Bank has notified the 
Participating LG of its acceptability, provided that no 
event has 
occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or operating results of such Participating LG.
(v)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of  Rupiah, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purpose 
of servicing such debt, or, with 
the absence of such rate on the basis of a 
rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
Page  9
that the Borrower or East Java will be able to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum; and 
(b)
the Resettlement Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of  
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or the ability of 
East Java to perform any of its obligations under the PPIM.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum has 
been duly approved by all relevant authorities and executed by the Borrower and East 
Java.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and East Java and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and East Java in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Resettlement Guidelines  have been duly approved by the Borrower 
and East Java and all necessary actions have been taken to enable the Resettlement 
Guidelines to be implemented in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINSTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
JAKARTA
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  10
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By  /s/  Arifin M. Siregar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/  Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the 
 Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed Dollar
Expenditures
Category
  Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works for 
Sub-projects: 
(a)
financed under
41,400,000
90%
SLAs
(b)
other works
45,700,000
70%
(2)
Goods for Sub-projects:
(a)
financed under SLAs
26,100,000
90%
(b)
other goods
11,000,000
100% of foreign ex-
penditures, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
Page  11
65% of other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services:
(a)
contracted by the
 2,300,000
80%
Borrower
(b)
contracted by East 
16,200,000
100%
Java, Participating
Local Governments and
Participating PDAMs
      ___________
TOTAL
      142,700,000
      ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
Categories (1) and (2) with respect to expenditures incurred by  a 
Participating LG and its respective Participating PDAM, unless the Bank  has approved 
the first APIP for such Participating LG and such Participating PDAM,  which shall 
have been adopted in accordance with the provisions of Part A.1 (b) (ii) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement; and
(c)
Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a), with respect to expenditures incurred by 
a Participating LG or a Participating PDAM, unless the Bank has approved the first 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement for such Participating LG or such Participating PDAM, which 
shall have been entered into in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) (i) the first contract for 
goods and the first contract for works to be entered into by any of the Implementing 
Agencies; and (ii) thereafter, contracts for goods costing less than $200,000 
equivalent, and civil works costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent; and (b) contracts 
for the employment of: (i) consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and 
(ii) individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of  the Project are to  improve the delivery of urban 
infrastructure services and develop the financial and institutional capacity of 
Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs in the Province of East Java.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Infrastructure Works
1.
Carrying out a three-year program of high-priority infrastructure investment 
projects for Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs in the following 
Page  12
sub-sectors:
(a)
urban roads and traffic management;
(b)
water supply;
(c)
solid waste management;
(d)
sanitation and human waste disposal;
(e)
drainage and flood control;
(f)
provision of support to low-income communities and rehabilitation of 
urban neighborhoods (Kampung);
(g)
urban infrastructure renewal, including market area rehabilitation; and
(h)
environmental monitoring and implementation of mitigation measures 
designed pursuant to the provisions of UKL/UPL.
2.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons under Part A.1 
above.
Part B:
Institutional Capacity Development
1.
Improving the urban management and services delivery capabilities of the staff 
of Participating LGs and Participating PDAMs, through the provision of advisory 
services and training. 2.
Improving the capabilities of the Borrower’s central, 
provincial and local agencies to manage and finance Sub-project preparation and 
implementation, and environmental management, through the provision of advisory 
services.
Part C:
Strategic Development Program
Design and preparation of a development policy framework and regional program 
for future investments in the infrastructure sector, through the provision of advisory 
services and the carrying out of policy studies.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1999.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Participating Local Governments
1.
Mojokerto - City 
2.
Pasuruan - City 
3.
Probolinggo - City 
4.
Kediri - City 
5.
Lamongan - Regency 
6.
Banyuwangi - Regency 
7.
Sidoarjo - Regency 
8.
Jember - Regency 
9.
Madiun - City 
10.
Blitar - City 
11.
Situbondo - Regency 
12.
Lumajang - Regency 
13.
Malang - Regency 
14.
Pasuran - Regency 
15.
Tulungagung - Regency 
16.
Ponorogo - Regency 
17.
Jombang - Regency 
18.
Bojonegoro - Regency 
19.
Tuban - Regency 
20.
Gresik - Regency 
21.
Bangkalan - Regency 
Page  13
22.
Sampang - Regency 
23.
Pamekasan - Regency 
24.
Malang - City 
25.
Bondowoso - Regency 
26.
Probolinggo - Regency 
27.
Mojokerto - Regency 
28.
Kediri - Regency 
29.
Blitar - Regency 
30.
Trenggalek - Regency 
31.
Pacitan - Regency 
32.
Nganjuk - Regency 
33.
Madiun - Regency 
34.
Magetan - Regency 
35.
Ngawi - Regency 
36.
Sumenep - Regency
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 2002
2,770,000 
July 15, 2002
2,865,000 
January 15, 2003
2,965,000 
July 15, 2003
3,070,000 
January 15, 2004
3,175,000 
July 15, 2004
3,285,000 
January 15, 2005
3,400,000 
July 15, 2005
3,520,000 
January 15, 2006
3,645,000 
July 15, 2006
3,770,000 
January 15, 2007
3,900,000 
July 15, 2007
4,040,000 
January 15, 2008
4,180,000 
July 15, 2008
4,325,000 
January 15, 2009
4,475,000 
July 15, 2009
4,630,000 
January 15, 2010
4,795,000 
July 15, 2010
4,960,000 
January 15, 2011
5,135,000 
July 15, 2011
5,315,000 
January 15, 2012
5,500,000 
July 15, 2012
5,690,000 
January 15, 2013
5,890,000 
July 15, 2013
6,095,000 
January 15, 2014
6,310,000 
July 15, 2014
6,530,000 
January 15, 2015
6,755,000 
July 15, 2015
6,990,000 
January 15, 2016
7,235,000 
July 15, 2016
7,485,000
___________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
Page  14
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) 
applicable to the Loan on 
the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more shall 
be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
guidelines.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  15
1.
National Competitive Bidding
The following may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines:
(a)
works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $106,700,000; and
(b)
goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $27,500,000 equivalent.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works and goods shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to:
(a)
(i)
the first contract for works; and (ii) the first contract for 
goods to be entered into by any of the Implementing Agencies; and 
(b)
thereafter, each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $1,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
Page  16
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to:
(i)
the terms of reference for such contracts;
(ii)
single-source selection of consulting firms;
(iii)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank;
(iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
(v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
Implementation Arrangements
1.
Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum (PPIM)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the PPIM shall, inter alia, include 
the following undertakings:
(a)
The Borrower shall designate East Java as the principal Implementing 
Agency.
(b)
(i)
East Java shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to this end 
shall carry out its 
respective parts of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental 
and resettlement practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required by the Participating Local Governments and Participating 
PDAMs for their respective parts of the Project.
(ii)
To this end, East Java shall take all such action as shall be 
necessary to 
ensure that starting April 15, 1997 and thereafter, 
by not later than April 15 
in each year until the completion of the 
Project, an annual project 
implementation plan (APIP) 
is adopted among East Java, each Participating LG 
and each 
Participating PDAM, in accordance with model terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, a 
description of Sub-projects, operations and maintenance programs, 
institutional capacity development programs and Performance Indicators 
for the 
upcoming year. 
(c)
East Java, through its provincial public works agencies shall ensure that 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for its respective 
parts of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
Page  17
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
East Java shall cause the Participating LGs and Participating PDAMs to 
use the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan exclusively for 
the purposes of their respective Sub-projects.
(e)
The Borrower and East Java shall closely monitor the implementation of 
all proposed activities, and shall inspect, from time to time, the goods, works and 
services under the Sub-projects including all records and documents relating thereto.
(f)
East Java shall cause Participating LGs and Participating PDAMs to 
promptly inform East Java of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere 
with the progress of their respective Sub-projects and ensure that appropriate 
corrective measures are taken by the relevant Participating LGs.
(g)
The Borrower and East Java shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of either the Borrower, East 
Java or the 
Bank, exchange views with the Participating LGs and 
Participating PDAMs 
regarding progress achieved in carrying 
out their respective Sub-projects; and
(ii)
furnish to the Bank all such information and documents related 
thereto as may 
reasonably be requested.  East Java shall further 
agree to obtain such 
information and documents from 
Participating LGs or Participating PDAMs as may 
be required by the 
Borrower to fulfill its supervision, monitoring, recording 
and reporting 
obligations to the Bank.
2.
Sub-projects
In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall and shall cause East 
Java to:
(a)
select Sub-projects to be financed under the Project using technical, 
environmental and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank. Such criteria  shall 
include, without limitation:
(i)
each Sub-project shall be prepared by the respective Participating 
LG or 
Participating PDAMs in accordance with general technical 
guidelines approved 
by the Bank;
(ii)
for each Sub-project in the urban road, water supply, drainage and 
Kampung 
rehabilitation sub-sectors, referred to under Parts 
A.1 (a), A.1 (b), A.1 (e) 
and A.1 (f) of the Project, a minimum economic 
rate of return of twelve (12%) 
percent shall be required;
(iii)
for each Sub-project involving the involuntary resettlement of any 
PAPs, a RAP 
has been prepared in accordance with the Resettlement 
Guidelines and in 
consultation with said PAPs, and such RAP has 
been furnished to the Bank for 
approval; and
(iv)
for each Sub-project, the UKL/UPL requirements have been completed 
pursuant to 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Bank;
(b)
ensure that Participating LGs and Participating PDAMs furnish to PPMO, 
for its review and approval by not later than October 15 of each year until completion 
of the Project, a list of proposed Sub-projects to be financed under the Project 
during the next year, together with all supporting documentation, all in accordance 
with the criteria set forth in sub-paragraph (a) above; and
(c)
promptly after receiving PPMO’s approval thereof, cause the Participating 
LGs and Participating PDAMs to carry out their respective Sub-projects in accordance 
with procedures and guidelines issued by PPMO.
Part B:
Implementing Agencies
Page  18
Responsibility for implementation of the Project shall be vested in the 
Implementing Agencies as follows:
1.
The Borrower
(a)
MPW through its Directorate General of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya) 
shall be the executing agency responsible for overall technical supervision and 
management of Project implementation.  Cipta Karya shall delegate day-to-day 
management responsibilities to East Java, for its respective parts of the Project.
(b)
BAPPENAS shall be responsible for ensuring close coordination of Project 
activities among MOF, MPW, MHA, East Java, Participating LGs and Participating PDAMs.
(c)
The Directorate General of Financial Institutions in MOF shall be 
responsible for the execution, enforcement and supervision of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements.
2.
East Java
(a)
East Java shall be responsible for the overall coordination and 
monitoring of Project implementation and to this end, shall maintain within its 
Provincial Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA I), the Provincial Project Management 
Office (PPMO) with competent and qualified staff in adequate numbers and headed by a 
qualified and experienced Project Manager.
(b)
The PPMO shall be responsible for:
(i)
overall management of the Project;
(ii)
reviewing and approving proposed Sub-projects;
(iii)
issuing standard operating procedures and related guidelines for 
the 
implementation of Sub-projects by Participating LGs and 
Participating PDAMs;
(iv)
planning, contracting and monitoring of consultants’ services 
financed under 
the Project; and
(v)
monitoring implementation of approved Sub-projects.
(c)
The provincial public works agencies shall be responsible for managing 
their respective Sub-projects and, to this end, shall appoint and thereafter maintain, 
a qualified and experienced Sub-project Manager for each of said Sub-projects.
3.
Participating Local Governments
(a)
Each Participating LG shall be responsible for coordination and 
monitoring of the implementation of Sub-projects carried out by such Participating LG.
(b)
The Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA II) in each Participating LG 
shall be responsible for overall supervision of Sub-projects, including programming 
and planning of civil works under such Sub-projects and to this end, shall assign, and 
thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, qualified and experienced 
technical officers which shall carry out day-to-day coordination activities, including 
preparation and dissemination of consolidated progress reports.
Part C:
Implementation Actions
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
cause East Java, through its Provincial Inspectorate, to carry out every 
year until the completion of the Project, commencing not later than October 31, 1997, 
annual technical audits, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, for Project quality 
assurance, including, achievement of Project objectives pursuant to the Performance 
Indicators, performance of civil works and consultants’ contracts, provision of 
compensation under the RAPs, and procurement of goods works and services financed 
Page  19
under the Project; and
(b)
promptly after completion of the said audits, furnish to the Bank the 
recommendations submitted as part of said audits.
2.
The Borrower shall, and shall cause East Java to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the Borrower and East 
Java to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with Performance 
Indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than July 31 of each year, until the completion of the Project, 
furnish to the Bank a report in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
including, inter alia:  (i) an evaluation of progress achieved by the Borrower and 
East Java in Project implementation pursuant to the Performance Indicators; and  (ii) 
draft APIPs and SLAs proposed for the upcoming year;
(c)
not later than October 31 of each year, until the completion of the 
Project, and on the basis of the above reports, carry out annual Project 
implementation reviews to, inter alia: (i) evaluate progress achieved by the Borrower 
in general, and by East Java in particular, in carrying out the Project, including the 
carrying out of the RAPs; (ii) evaluate performance of the Participating LGs and 
Participating PDAMs, under the APIPs and SLAs during the previous year and review the 
recommendations made by East Java on APIPs and SLAs proposed for the upcoming year; 
(iii) assess the level of expenditures incurred by Participating LGs and Participating 
PDAMs to finance the costs of operations and maintenance of infrastructure financed 
under the Project, during the previous year and the allocations proposed for the 
upcoming year; (iv) discuss and exchange views on all other related activities 
financed by other donor agencies; and (v) exchange information among Implementing 
Agencies and propose solutions to any cur
rent implementation issue; and
(d)
promptly after completing the annual reviews take all measures required 
to ensure efficient implementation of the Project  and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said annual 
reviews and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (2)(a), 
(2)(b), (3)(a), and (3)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $28,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  20
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
\0cThereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or
Page  21
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
