Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
a  h6. /     C -    7,!?
/C;-(g ivrz
Report No. P-4219-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 13 MILLION
AND
A PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 13 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
May 7, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officizl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizat'on.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 360
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and measures in this report are in
International System (SI) units.
1 meter (m)        =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)   =  0.62 miles
1 kilogramme (kg)  =  2.205 pounds
1 ton (t)          =  2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF   -  African Development Fund
ABEDA  -  Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BCEAO  -  Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BGR    -  Bureau de Gestion Routiare (Road Management Unit)
CCCE   -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Econamique
CFA    -  Communaute Financiere Africaine (African Financial Community)
CILSS  -  Comite Inter-Etat de Lutte contre la Secheresse au Sahel
CIDA   -  Canadian International Development Agency
DTT    -  Direction des Transports Terrestres (Department of Land
Transport)
DMTP   -  Direction du Materiel des Travaux Publics (Department of
Equipment)
DTP    -  Direction des Travaux Publics (Department of Public Works)
EDF    -  European Development Fund
IDB    -  Islamic Development Bank
MITPH   -  Ministare des Travaux Publics et de 1'Habitat (Ministry of Public
Works and Housing)
OPEC   -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
SAF    -  Special African Facility
SAL    -  Structural Adjustment Lending
SJF    -  Special Joint Financing
SNT    -  Syndicat National des Transporteurs
SNTN   -  Societe Nationale des Transports Nigeriens (Nigerien National
Transport Company)
UNSO   -  United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Organization
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
v.p.d. -  vehicles per day



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NIGER
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Niger.
Beneficiary:          Ministry of Public Works and Housing.
IDA Credit Amount:    SDR 13 million (US$15 million equivalent).
Special African
Facility Amount:    SDR 13 million (US$15 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms.
Project Description:  The main objective of the project is to assist the
Government in implementing its transport sector stra-
tegy which was developed as part of its Structural
Adjustment Program. This strategy aims at the fol-
lowing objectives: (a) redirecting public expendi-
tures to highest priority activities; (b) increasing
user cost recovery; and (c) consolidating the insti-
tution building initiated under previous IDA proj-
ects.
To achieve these objectives, the project will sup-
port:
(a) Policy actions by the Government including:
(i) adoption of a detailed four-year expend-
iture program for the sector, including
both investment and recurrent costs;
(ii) adoption of economic selection criteria
for new subprojects to be implemented
through this program;
(iii) annual implementation reviews and adop-
tion of agreed annual work programs;
(iv) annual revision of equipment rental rates;
and
(v) implementation of an agreed action plan
to improve cost recovery;
(b) Financing of priority civil works on the highway
network consisting of:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(i)  annual resurfacing and strengthening pro-
grams on paved roads;
(ii)  annual regravelling programs on unpaved
roads;
(iii)  rural and secondary road construction;
(iv)  construction of major high priority roads
and bridges;
(v)  routine maintenance of the whole network;
and
(vi)  consultant services for the preparation
of pre-investment studies, detailed engi-
neering, and supervision of items (i),
(iii), and (iv) above;
(c)  Procurement of road maintenance equipment, work-
shop equipment and workshop rehabilitation; and
(d)  Institutional development,  including technical
assistance, support for operating costs, and
studies.
Rate of Return:        With the exception of ongoing activities, no construc-
tion or rehabilitation projects would be included -in
the program unless they can be shown to have rates of
return exceeding those calculated for periodic mainte-
nance, which range from 14% to 130%. Secondary and
rural road construction would be limited to roads
with rates of return not less than 10%.
Project Benefits:      Policy changes to be implemented under the project
would improve revenue performance and resource allo-
cation; in particular, they would bring allocations
for road maintenance into line with future needs.
The institution building component would enhance the
capacity of the Ministry of Public Works in road man-
agement, equipment management, and staff development.
The project's economic benefits are principally de-
rived from a reduction in vehicle operating costs on
the present road network.  Additional, non-quantified
benefits would be derived from the project's contri-
bution to road safety and reduction in travel time.
Timely replacement of the Gaya Bridge over the Niger
river would assure the country's continued access to
its principal external supply route from the coast.
Secondary and rural road improvements would encourage
additional agricultural activity by providing trans-
port links between food producing and consuming



- iii -
areas. A pilot program in labor-based construction
would also strengthen community self-help capacity.
Project Risks:        The msin risk is that the Government may not be able
to provide sufficient local funds for routine road
maintenance or for counterpart funding for foreign-
financed investments. Specific cost recovery meas-
ures to minimize this risk have bean included in the
project as well as in the Structural Adjustment Pro-
gram. Other risks include inadequate revenues from
equipment rental, and failure to implement the pro-
posed action plan to raise road user charge revenues.
Particular attention, however, would be paid to these
aspects during project supervision.
Planned Investments and Recurrent Expenditures
(1985/86 - 1988/89)
Million US$
Local          Foreign            Total
Construction: Primary Roads          12.7             38.1              50.8
Secondary Roads        3.6              10.8             14.4
Rural Roads            2.9               8.9             11.8
Rehabilitation and
Periodic Maintenance               16.2             48.7              64.9
Equipment and Workshops               0.8              7.1               7.9
Consulting Services                   1.8              3.5               5.3
Investment Sub-Total               38.0            117.1             155.1
Routine Maintenance                   7.3             13.8              21.1
Program Sub-Total                  45.3            130.9             176.2
Price Contingencies                   9.4             27.3              36.7
Total Program Expenditures           54.7            158.2             212.9
-                  O      



- iv -
Sumuary Financing Plan
US$ million
Government                                 27.6
IDA/SAF Transport Sector                   30.0
Special Joint Financing (Japan)            20.0
IDA Feeder Roads                            1.7
IDA Fourth Highway                          3.0
Confirmed Financing
EDF                                      39.4
AfDF                                     16.8
IDB, Saudi Fund, ABEDA, OPEC Fund        24.2
CIDA                                     19.6
CCCE                                      7.8
UNSO/Norway/Italy                        11.4
UNDP                                      0.5
Financing to be identified:                10.9
212.9
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
FY1987   FY1988   FY1989   FY1990   FY1991   FY1992  FY1993
IDA Credit
Annual             0        0         0      0.5       8.0      5.0      1.5
Cumulative         0        0         0      0.5       8.5     13.5    15.0
SAP Credit
Annual           3.0     10.0       2.0       -         -        -        -
Cumulative      3.0      13.0      15.0       -         -        -
Staff Appraisal Report No.: 5980-NIR
Map:    IBRD 19198 - Transport Sector Project



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND A PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Niger in an amount of SDR 13 million
(US$15 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Trans-
port Sector Project. It is proposed to supplement this credit with a cred-
It of SDR 13 million (US$15 million equivalent) from the Special Facility
for Sub-Saharan Africa (the Special African Facility), established by Reso-
lution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985. The purpose of both credits is to
help finance a Transport Sector Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        This section is based on findings of the missions in 1984-85 that
prepared the first Structural Adjustment Credit to Niger (Report No. P-4185-
NIR). Annex I contains country data.
Structural Characteristics of the Economy
3.        With an ares of 1.27 million km2 , Niger is about 2.5 times the
size of France. It is a landlocked country, and its closest access to the
sea is 600 km from the southern border. The population is estimated at
about six million and growing at 3Z a year, which is above the average for
Sub-Saharan Africa. Nearly 90% of the population is concentrated In a thin
band along the southern border, in the 12% of the land that is considered
arable. Rainfall is limited and often irregular, while soil fertility is
low and declining, due to intensive use. Niger is one of the poorest
countries of the world, with a per capita GNP of US$190 in 1984.  The life
expectancy at birth of 45 years is low, even by African standards. High
infant and child mortality rates account for 60% of all deaths in the
country. In 1984, the adult literacy rate was only 14% (8% for women), and
the primary school enrollment ratio not more than 25%, one of the lowest in
Africa.
4.        The Nigerien economy has traditionally been dominated by subsist-
ence agriculture, with millet and sorghum taking up 80% of the cultivated
area. Livestock also provides an important source of income and export
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as those in the President's
Report for the Health Project (Report No. P-4216-NIR) which was
approved by the Executive Directors on March 20, 1986.



- 2 -
receipts. Except for the Sahelian drought periods, the country has always
been self-sufficient in food production, despite its very limited agricul-
tural resource base. The discovery of large uranium deposits in the late
1960s triggered the development of an important mining sector in Niger.
Under highly favorable conditions in the world market for uranium during
the late 1970s, the mining sector expanded rapidly; uranium became the
country's principal foreign exchange earner and a major source of govern-
ment revenues. As a result, Niger went through a period of rapid growth
and modernization, and the public sector took a dominant position in the
modern economy. The uranium boom ended in the early 1980s, when prices
dropped and Niger's production decreased. Consequently, the share of the
mining sector and the modern sector in the economy both declined signifi-
cantly.
5.        Niger has traditionally maintained an open economy, exporting and
importing about 25Z of its GDP.  Strong trade links exist with Europe
(mainly France) and neighboring African countries (particularly Nigeria).
This openness has been facilitated by the West African Monetary Union, of
which Niger is a member. The Union's central bank (BCEAO) issues a common
currency for its member states, the CFA franc. Its full convertibility
into French Francs, at a fixed rate of CFAF 100 = 2FF, is guaranteed by the
French Government. In return, the monetary union imposes discipline over
the monetary and balance of payments policies of its member countries.
Past Economic Developments
6.        During the first half of the seventies, Niger exhibited all the
features of a resource-poor Sahelian country.  Economic performance was
dependent on a limited number of crops and livestock, which were severely
constrained by poor soils and unfavorable climatic conditions. This was
dramatically illustrated in 1972 when devastating droughts caused a sharp
decrease in crop production and in the livestock herd. During the second
half of the seventies, Niger's economic performance improved significantly,
and real GDP grew at an average 7% per year. The growth of the rural sec-
tor accelerated, due to the favorable weather conditions and a successful
herd rehabilitation program.   The uranium sector went through a boom,
boosting the share of the mining sector in GDP from 6% in 1975 to 13% in
1980.
7.        This favorable economic performance ended abruptly in the early
eighties as a result of two factors. First, real export prices of uranium
fell by more than 50% between 1979 and 1982.  Uranium export earnings
stopped growing and uranium revenues dropped from 25Z of government reve-
nues in 1980 to 14% in 1983. Second, agricultural production was hampered
by unfavorable climatic conditions, forcing Niger to increase food imports.
As a result of these developments, real GDP stagnated in 1981 - 1982 and
declined by almost 3% in 1983. This slowdown in economic activity was ac-
companied by the emergence of sizeable fiscal and external deficits. Bud-
getary revenue, which had peaked at 13% of GDP in 1981, fell to 10% of GDP
in 1983, reflecting the heavy dependence of revenues on the modern sector
and on international trade.   Public  expenditures,  on the other hand,



- 3 -
continued to grow. Consequently, the budget deficit averaged 9% of GDP
over the 1980/81-1982/83 period. At the same time, the external current
account deficit (including official grants) averaged IOZ of GDP. Export
revenues of uranium as well as livestock products stagnated and, when ex-
pressed in US dollar terms, decreased substantially.
8.        When the uranium boom came to an end, a number of serious defi-
ciencies in the structure of the economy became evident. First, during the
uranium boom, the Government used the public expenditure program as the
primary instrument for allocating financial resources in the economy and
for  generating  economic  growth.   Public  investment focused on  infra-
structure and building projects, while agricultural investment encountered
serious problems. Recurrent expenditures favored personnel and transfer
payments over operation and maintenance, to the detriment of existing
infrastructure and basic public services. These imbalances were exacerbat-
ed in the early eighties by rapidly increasing interest payments on public
debt, a decline in tax revenues, and inadequate cost recovery for public
services. Second, although uranium revenues started to decline in 1981,
the Government continued to implement its ambitious development plan by
relying increasingly on external borrowings. To finance growing budget and
external deficits, the country accumulated a heavy foreign debt, which rose
to US$915 million at the end of 1984, or 65% of GDP. A substantial share
of this amount was committed on commercial terms. Without debt relief, the
debt service ratio would have risen to 45% in J984. Third, during the late
seventies, public enterprises proliferated into uneconomic activities and
acquired privileges that discouraged private sector development. Many of
them incurred substantial operating losses and became a drain on the gov-
ernment budget and the financial sector. This negative performance was
caused by government regulatory policies in the areas of pricing, marketing
and employment, by excessive government interference in day-to-day manage-
ment, and by lack of qualified personnel and inadequate accounting
practices. Finally, the rural development strategy which the Government
pursued over the last ten years to achieve food self-sufficiency was imple-
mented through expensive large-scale projects, using unproven technology
and heavy institutional infrastructure. The Government intervened actively
in input, product and financial markets, to overcome perceived weaknesses
in private sector activities.  This distorted market incentives for ag-
ricultural production and caused substantial budgetary outlays.
9.        The Government began addressing some of these problems in the
1982/83 budget year, by taking austerity measures such as a freeze in wages
ard salaries, cutbacks in expenditures for material, supplies and invest-
ments, and tighter control over foreign borrowings. A stabilization pro-
gram was initiated and supported by three IhF Standby arrangements, the
last of which was approved in November 1985. Debt rescheduling agreements
were reached with the Paris Club in November 1983, 1984 and 1983, and with
the London Club in early 1984. The objectives of the stabilization program
are to:  (i) improve the tax effort; (ii) limit the growth of current ex-
penditures;   (iii) reduce   and   restructure   investment   expenditures;
(iv) reduce the Government's domestic arrears; (v) improve the financial
performance and limit the size of the parastatal sector; (vi) liberalize



- 4 -
marketing and trading policies; and (vii) restrain foreign borrowing.
Implementation of this program has been satisfactory, despite the impact of
the recent drought on public expenditures and the balance of payments. By
1985, the current account deficit had been reduced to 3.6% of GDP and the
budget deficit to 4.9Z of GDP.  The reduction in the budget deficit re-
flects mainly a substantial cutback in investments; efforts to limit and
restructure current expenditures or to increase revenues were less success-
ful. The reduction in the current account deficit was to a great extent
the result of a sharp decrease in imports, brought about by demand manage-
ment policies.
10.       Real GDP, however, continued to fall in 1984 for the third conse-
cutive year.  The sharp decline of 16% was due primarily to a serious
drought, which resulted in a 30-40X decline in food crop production and in
a 40% loss in the livestock herd. Other factors with a negative impact on
GDP were the closure of the Nigerian border for almost a year and the
reduced level of public expenditures. GDP growth resumed in 1985, estimat-
ed at 7.1%, due mainly to a strong recovery of the rural sector following
abundant rainfall. It is expected that the recovery of the economy from
the drought will continue.
Niger's Development Prospects
11.       In the present circumstances, Niger faces a double challenge.
First, the country has to overcome the financial imbalances and structural
weaknesses that are the legacy of the uranium boom. Second, it has to de-
velop its economy on a narrow resource base, as regards both physical and
human resources. The recent decline in real GDP clearly indicates the need
to complement continued austerity with policy measures that allow the coun-
try to restore a minimum acceptable level of growth. The focus, thus,
should be on improving the efficiency with which existing resources are
utilized, while efforts continue to expand the productive base of the
economy.  This will necessitate further development of the agricultural
sector and of Niger's human resources, in combination with an active pro-
gram to slow down population growth.
12.       Structural Adjustment Program.  To improve economic growth pros-
pects while keeping budgetary and external imbalances at sustainable lev-
els, the Government of Niger has complemented its ongoing stabilization
efforts with an adjustment program aimed at overcoming the structural prob-
lems in the economy. The adjustment program focuses on increasing the ef-
ficiency of existing investments, improving policies for more efficient
future investments, and reorienting policies for strengthening the coun-
try's human and physical resources. The first phase of this program focus-
es on policy improvements in three areas where problems are most acute and
where policy change would have the greatest beneficial impact on the bud-
getary and balance of payments position:  (i) public resource management,
(ii) parastatal reform, and (iii) agricultural policy. IDA is supporting
the program through a structural adjustment credit, approved in February,
1986.



13.       Under the adjustment program, a more efficient use of budgetary
resources will be pursued to better utilize existing investments, expand
essential services and strengthen the basis for future economic develop-
ment. A th-ree-year budget program has been adopted for the period 1985/86-
1987/88 reflecting: (i) restructured recurrent expenditures with increased
allocations for operation and maintenance, a freeze in personnel expendi-
tures in real terms and reduced transfers to consumers; (ii) restructured
investment expenditures, with more emphasis on directly productive invest-
ments, human resource development, and rehabilitation of existing infra-
structure; (iii) expanded domestic resource mobilization through cost re-
covery efforts; and (iv) improved external debt management. This budget
program will be reviewed and rolled over annually.
14.       The Government's parastatal reform program, which is designed to
increase the efficiency of public enterprises as well as to encourage pri-
vate investment, covers three areas: (i) revisions in incentive policies;
(ii) improvements in the legal and institutional framework for the para-
statal sector; and (iii) rehabilitation, privatization and liquidation pro-
grams for individual enterprises.  In this context, price and trade con-
trols have been considerably relaxed, legislation clarifying the relation-
ship between the state and individual enterprises has been adopted, and
rehabilitation of the most important enterprises has been initiated.
Privatization or liquidation efforts are underway for other public enter-
prises.
15.       The Government has reformulated its rural development strategy
and supporting policies to improve the efficiency of its interventions in
this sector and to limit their budgetary impact. First, the sectoral in-
vestment program is being reoriented, emphasizing quick-yielding, small-
scale productivity projects, farmers' participation, and rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure. Second, the operations of the cereals marketing
and storage agency have been limited to the management of a reduced securi-
ty stock; its price stabilization role has been eliminated. Third, sub-
sidies on agricultural inputs are being curtailed in order to expand their
availability and limit the budgetary impact. Fourth, a reform program of
the agricultural credit system, which had practically collapsed under se-
vere financial strains, has been initiated. Finally, the agricultural re-
search program is being reoriented towards more applied research at the
farm level and more farm systems research, in order to strengthen the basis
for longer-term agricultural growth.
16.       Expansion of Resource Base.  The structural reform measures are
expected to reduce the policy impediments to higher and more productive
utilization of the country's existing resource base.  However, this re-
source base is small and the extent of supply responses to the improved
policy framework is uncertain because of Niger's low level of development.
A necessary corollary to the policy reforms, therefore, is a concerted ef-
fort to reduce the country's severe resource constraints and expand the
productive base of the economy. This relates primarily to a further devel-
opment of the agricultural, industrial and energy sectors, and to an accel-
erated development of Niger's human resources.



- 6 -
17.       The longer-term prospects for agricultural development in Niger
are uncertain, given the low and diminishing fertility of the soil and the
unstable climatic conditions in the Sahel region. Food self-sufficiency in
the eighties and beyond can only be achieved through a gradual improvement
in yields on land that is already under cultivation. Better use of modern
agricultural inputs, the development of small-scale irrigation schemes, and
applied research on rainfed agriculture will be important for the future
development of Niger's rural sector. In industry, development is handi-
capped by the limited size of the domestic market, the landlocked position
of the country, and the lack of local raw material resources. Never-
theless, private initiative should be encouraged by improved promotion and
incentive policies.  Finally,  the development potential in energy and
mining should be better assessed by geological surveys and exploration
activities. An important coal deposit was identified in 1983, but high
transportation costs cast serious doubts on the economic viability of its
development. Similarly, small oil reserves have recently been discovered,
but their exploitation appears to be uneconomical at this stage.
18.       Developing human resources is crucial for future economic growth
in Niger, although investments in this area have a very long gestation pe-
riod.  Primary education will have to be expanded as a first priority.
Further expansion of post-primary education-including professional and
vocational training-should be based on a careful assessment of expected
resource availability and estimated future needs for trained manpower.
Health programs should focus on improving basic health services in the ru-
ral areas and on preventive rather than curative health care. Finsaly, the
current rate of population growth of 3Z a year puts unbearable pressure on
the country's scarce resources, and on budgetary allocations for public
services. Therefore, Niger's development program has to be accompanied, as
a matter of great urgency, by an active policy of reducing population
growth.
19.       To further these development objectives, a major effort will be
required, both on the part of Niger and its aid donors. The Nigerien Gov-
ernment needs to continue its careful review of investment strategies and
to make adequate courterpart financing available for project implementa-
tion. External financial assistance would have to increase in volume and be
provided on highly concessionary terms, preferably in the form of grants,
in light of the country's external debt situation. Aid coordination needs
to be strengthened to ensure that assistance projects are in line with the
Government's adjustment and development strategies.  In addition, Niger
requires increased non-project assistance to support policy reform, and
donors should consider recurrent cost financing. In view of the government
budget constraints, which are expected to persist, donors should continue
to finance local costs. Finally, in order to keep Niger's debt service
burden manageable in the future, donors should be prepared to consider sup-
plementary measures of debt alleviation.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
20.       Twenty-eight  IDA credits have been approved for Niger as of
March 31, 1986, for a total amount of US$331.5 million equivalent. There
has been one IFC investment, in the amount of US$2.2 million. Ten IDA
credits, amounting to US$100.9 million, were for the rural sector (drought
relief,  rural development,  forestry,  irrigation and livestock).   Seven
credits have been for transport; these are discussed in para. 43 below.
Eight other credits covered telecommunications, education, power and indus-
trial development, and economic and financial management assistance to the
Government. During the current fiscal year, the Executive Directors have
approved Development and Special Africaa Facility Credits of US$20 million
and US$40 million respectively in support of the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program and a US$27.8 million equivalent Development Credit in
support of a Health Project. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
Group Operations in Niger as of March 31, 1986.
21.       While the Government's macroeconomic performance in recent years
has been quite satisfactory, experience with project preparation and imple-
mentation has been mixed. The Second Maradi and Dosso Rural Development
Projects (Credit Nos. 1026-NIR and 967-NIR) have encountered major diffi-
culties due to inadequate institutional arrangements, managerial problems,
a lack of proven technical packages for rainfed farming, high investment
and operating costs of irrigation, and poor credit recovery. These proj-
ects, as well as the First Livestock Project (Credit No. 885-NIR), have
also been affected by cumbersome administrative procedures and the recent
severe drought. To assist the Government in alleviating the effects of the
drought, the Association amended several ongoing agricultural projects to
finance seeds and destocking of herds. Highway and feeder road construc-
tion projects have been and are being implemented on schedule.  Social
infrastructure projects, on the other hand, have suffered some delays,
largely because of the inexperience of implementing institutions. In the
early 1980s, project implementation was also adversely affected by the
shortage of counterpart funds which resulted from the Government's finan-
cial difficulties. Under the Special Action Program, the financing plan of
several projects was revised to reduce required government contributions,
which had originally been set during the uranium boom period, in line with
the more limited resources available in the mid-1980s. Also, revolving
funds were introduced to help accelerate disbursements. Reflecting the
difficulties faced in the early 1980s, the disbursement ratio dropped from
59Z in FY80 to 16% in FY83. The ratio increased to 26Z In FY84 following
the introduction of the Special Action Program. The disbursement ratio of
23Z in FY85 is slightly below the ratio for Senegal (26%) and Mali (28%),
but significantly higher than that for Burkina (13%), all Sahelian coun-
tries at a similar level of development.
22.       IDA's lending program in recent fiscal years has consisted of an
average of two projects per year amounting to about US$20 million. The
program has been small largely because of difficulties in project prepara-
tion. The strong policy dialogue that has developed over the last -ears
between IDA and the Government, in combination with Niger's eligibility



- 8 -
under the Special African Facility, have led to a substantial increase in
lending. This increased lending level is expected to be maintained in the
coming years, provided that the Government remains successful in formulat-
ing and implementing a program of comprehensive policy reform.
23.       Future IDA operations will continue to support the Government's
adjustment process. They will also assist the Government in addressing
longer term development constraints, particularly those related to agri-
culture and human resource development. Lending instruments have been di-
versified to include structural adjustment and sectoral operations. De-
pending on the success of the Government's efforts to implement the first
phase of the structural adjustment program, additional structural adjust-
ment credits will be proposed in the future to extend the reforms to other
areas of the economy. In addition, sector-based lending operations would
assist the Government in implementing its sectoral strategies, in particu-
lar through: (i) revised sectoral investment programs which emphasize re-
habilitation and cost-effectiveness; (ii) restructured recurrent expendi-
ture budgets which focus on efficient operations and maintenance; and
(iii) additional cost recovery measures. Project lending operations will
aim to assist the Government both in increasing the efficiency of resource
use and in expanding the country's productive base.
24.       Recent and future IDA operations reflect this approach.  The Ir-
rigation Rehabilitation Project, approved in FY85, focuses on the rehab-
ilitation of existing infrastructure and on increased cost recovery in ir-
rigated areas. A similar sectoral approach is being taken in the recently
approved health project and in the proposed transport project. It will
also be proposed in an upcoming energy project. An education project,
which is expected to be submitted for consideration by the Executive Direc-
tors in the next fiscal year, will focus on improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of the primary education system. A planned public enterprise
rehabilitation project will provide technical assistance and training for
the implementation of the ongoing parastatal reforms and will finance the
rehabilitation of key public enterprises.  Priority will continue to be
given to agriculture, the key sector for future growth of the country. Due
to the absence of appropriate technologies for rainfed cultivation, it is
difficult to determine at the present time how agricultural production
could be strengthened in the long term. The Government is, therefore, for-
mulating a new agricultural research strategy in connection with its struc-
tural adjustment program. As a first step, IDA will assist in the imple-
mentation of this strategy through an agricultural research project. Sec-
ond, a number of new production approaches will be tried through a small
rural operations project that will test various agricultural input packages
under different climatic and soil conditions.



- 9 -
PART III - THE SECTOR
General
25.       Adequate transportation is critical to Niger's current economy as
well as to its future development. Niger is a landlocked country whose
closest access to the sea is 600 km from its southern border. There are
vast stretches of nearly empty land between major population centers, par-
ticularly in the north. High transportation costs, among other things,
constrain the competitiveness of Niger's products on the world market and
limit its capacity to develop its resources. They also add to the costs of
delivering goods and services to far-flung urban centers and to a sparse
and scattered rural population.
26.       Niger's transport infrastructure consists of about 18,500 km of
roads and tracks, five domestic airports, and the Niger River which is used
only for small amounts of local traffic. Roads are the most important mode
of transport and have absorbed a significant share of public investment
since the country's independence. Roads account for 99Z of planned govern-
ment expenditur' s in the transport sector during the next three years.
Government's planned investments in air transport are limited to improving
navigation and safety. The country has no railway or ports. Plans to de-
velop river transport have been indefinitely postponed.
27.       Through an extensive program of transport sector investments
which has been supported by the Bank through a series of credits, the Gov-
erment has substantially fulfilled its initial objectives of creating a
road network that links the country's main centers of production and con-
sumption, and setting up a road management and maintenance system. As part
of its financial stabilization program in recent years (see para. 9), the
Government revised its sectoral objectives to:  (i) complete ongoing op-
erations; (ii) conserve existing infrastructure; and (iii) integrate
isolated areas into the economy. Under the Government's structural adjust-
ment program, these objectives remain substantially the same, but with an
even greater emphasis on the preservation of the existing network.
28.       Basic policies are formulated and decisions on transport invest-
ment are made in principle by the Ministry of Planning, which also coordi-
nates external financing. These policies and decisions are subject to the
approval of the National Council for Development. Until recently, all
planning for transport development took place within the Ministry of Public
Works, Transport and Urban Development, which controlled the Department of
Public Works, the Department of Land Transport, and the Department of Civil
Aviation. In 1983, however, the Department of Land Transport (DTT) was
transferred to the Ministry of Commerce, which became the Ministry of Com-
merce and Transport. Although legally responsible for transport sector
planning, DTT has been chronically short of staff and resources and has
barely been able to fulfill its routine responsibilities. Under the Fourth
Highway Project, IDA has supported the development of capacity for the
planning, management and maintenance of the road network within the
Department of Public Works (DTP) of the Ministry of Public Works and
Housing (TPHI).



- 10 -
Road Network
29.       Niger's classified road network, defined in 1968/69, consists of
6,758 km of national roads. There are, in addition, some 12,000 km of un-
classified roads and tracks.  Since 1969, the main road network has been
continuously expanded and-upgraded. In 1984, the road network for which
DTP is responsible stood at 9,637 km. Operation and maintenance of the
697 km Tahoua-Arlit road have been contracted out to a subsidiary of the
uranium mining consortium. Presently, DTP directly maintains a "priority
network" of about 7,000 km, including 2,609 km of paved roads, 3,760 km of
gravel roads, and approximately 600 km of improved rural roads.
30.       The network is concentrated in the south where the majority of
the population and most of the economic activity are found. The nearly
uninhabited areas of the north are only sparsely served (Map IBRD 19198).
Niger's terrain is mostly flat or undulating and apart from the River
Niger, normally presents no major physical barrier to land transport.
Rainfall, though scarce, can be intensive, and rapid runoff leads to occa-
sional flash flooding which may cause serious damage to structures. The
generally sandy soils provide a good foundation for road construction, but
in some areas base course material is scarce or must be moved over long
distances in order to build or resurface roads. Loose, blowing sand has
recently become a problem in the north, adding considerably to the costs of
routine road maintenance.
Traffic
31.       Traffic counts have been carried out on the road network in three
campaigns since independence. Between 1964/65 and 1976/77, traffic growth
averaged about 8% per year. Based on recent traffic counts, it appears
that traffic has grown more rapidly in recent years. Preliminary results
indicate an average growth rate of 22% per year on paved roads and 20Z on
unpaved roads from 1976/77 to 1984/85. Even so, traffic levels are still
modest; the most heavily trafficked roads have less than 1,000 vehicles per
day. Light vehicle traffic has, in general, grown faster than heavy vehi-
cle traffic.
32.       From 1970 to 1976, the vehicle fleet exhibited a steady growth
rate of about 10% per year. This rate rose to around 14% in 1977-1980 but
has since declined to less than its 1976 level. Fuel consumption statis-
tics also show a distinct declining trend since 1980, corresponding to the
general decline in economic activity during this period. A further expla-
nation of this trend lies in the ready availability of cheaper fuel from
northern Nigeria, the consumption of which is not included in official sta-
tistics.
Transport Industry
33.       Niger has an active and diversified trucking industry which has
benefited slubstantially from past improvements in the road network. Of the
roughly 1,000 trucks engaged in public freight transport, about half are



- 11 -
owned and operated by the Nigerien National Transport Company (SNTN), a
commercially viable organization with mixed public/private ownership. The
rest are owned by some 350 small private truckers, most of whom own only
one or two vehicles. Smaller truckers are grouped in the National Union of
Transporters (SNT). Public passenger transport within and between urban
areas is largely provided by private operators of taxis, vans and mini-
buses.  Rural areas are served, where roads exist, by "bush taxi" and
trucks. Pedestrian and animal transport are also significant.
34.       SNTN handles much of the long-distance freight traffic, including
all of the uranium-related imports and exports.  It also operates urban
and intercity bus lines. SNTN's performance was reviewed in 1984 by IDA
consultants and it was found to be well managed, efficient and financially
sound. SNTN is fully autonomous and obtains most of its work through con-
tracts in competition with the active private sector. As part of the Gov-
ernment effort to reduce its direct involvement in economic activity, under
the structural adjustment program, the Government is committed to reduce
its equity share in SNTN.
35.       The Government does not enforce tariffs for road transport, ex-
cept for the transport of petroleum products.  However, it does provide
official rates which serve as a ceiling on actual charges. Some types of
long-distance freight originating at the railhead in Parakou (Benin) are
subject to tariffs imposed by the bi-national organization that operates
the Cotonou-Parakou railway. For domestic freight, tariffs are usually ne-
gotiated on a case by case basis. The prevailing competition among truck-
ers means that most of the savings in vehicle operating costs due to road
maintenance will be passed on to consumers. This is also true for passen-
ger transport.
Public Expenditures and Subsector Financing
36.       Public investment in the roads subsector peaked in 1979-80. cor-
responding to the major paving program undertaken when uranium revenues
swelled the National Investment Fund. Periodic maintenance of paved and
gravel roads is included in the investment budget rather than in the re-
current expenditure budget, and is largely financed from external assist-
ance. In recent years, due to declining revenues, the Government has not
allocated sufficient operating funds for routine maintenance and regravel-
ling carried out by force account brigades. Meanwhile, financial require-
ments for road maintenance have grown in response to expansion of the net-
work under maintenance and increasing equipment and operating costs.
37.       The expenditure program agreed under the structural adjustment
program, in addition to the road investment program, includes government
expenditures on routine road maintenance amounting to CFAF 5.5 billion over
the 1985/86-1987/88 period. This amount is less than the needs foreseen
under the ongoing Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1394-NIR) and will not be
sufficient to maintain the present network in good condition. However, the
agreed road maintenance budget represents a major increase (192 in each
year) over the funds allocated in 1984/85 to road maintenance, and is an



- 12 -
appropriate allocation of resources given current financial constraints.
This project would provide budgetary support to allow the full routine
maintenance program to be carried out. Maintenance budget allocation re-
quirements under Credit 1394-NIR will be modified to conform to those
agreed under the structural adjustment program.
Organization and Planning
38.       The Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MTPH) is responsible
for managing Niger's road network.  It carries out this responsibility
through several well-functioning departments, including Public Works (DTP),
Equipment (rMTP) and the National Laboratory. Planning, economic evalu-
ation, design, costing, Frocurement, construction supervision and mainte-
nance are the responsibility of DTP. For major improvement projects, DTP
employs consultants for planning, economic evaluation and design studies,
and for construction supervision. The monitoring and control of the con-
sultants by DTP is satisfactory. Minor improvement projects are prepared
by the DTP studies section, and supervised by the district engineer con-
cerned.
39.       Responsibility for data collection and analysis leading to the
formulation of annual plans and work programs for periodic road maintenance
rests with the Road Management Unit (BGR) in the Department of Public
Works. Planning for rural road improvements is done within the Feeder
Roads Division, which operates three construction brigades established
under the IDA-financed Feeder Roads Project (Credit 886-NIR). Secondary
roads improved under the United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Organization (UNSO)
project in the past have been selected by Government according to social
and political priorities. Under the proposed project, however, economic
criteria will be introduced in the process of selection of secondary roads
for rehabilitation.
40.       Periodic maintenrace of paved roads is executed by expatriate and
local contractors, with consultant supervision. Periodic and routine main-
tenance of gravel roads is executed by four force account crews which cover
the whole country. Recurrent maintenance is planned and executed by the
public works districts and subdivisions. Quality of works is good but the
quantity accomplished annually is less than adequate, primArily because of
decreased budget allocations to these items in recent years.
41.       DMTP is a semi-autonomous agency, within the Public Works Minis-
try, responsible for the establishment, management and repair of the equip-
ment fleet of the Ministry. Road maintenance activities have first priori-
ty in the use of DMTP's equipment, but available equipment can also be
rented to other agencies, local authorities, or even private contractors.
In recent years, the Government has not increased the rental rates as
needed to cover the rising costs of equipment, and this deficiency has not
been made up by the subsidy component of the department's budget. The
fleet and workshops have therefore deteriorated and some of the equipment
is now in need of rehabilitation and replacement. Equipment rental rates
will be increased in connection with the proposed project.



- 13 -
User Charges and Cost Recovery
42.       Road user charges in Niger presently cover more than the esti-
mated annual cost of routine maintenance needs, but only a portion of peri-
odic maintenance needs, which are expected to increase considerably in the
next few years. Annual revenues f-om road user charges are currently esti-
mated at about CFAF 4.3 billion, 75 of which is generated by fuel taxes.
In contrast, annual maintenance expenditure requirements are expected to be
about CFAF 7.6 billion in 1985 prices for the present network. An Action
Plan will be prepared to increase revenues from road users to a level com-
mensurate with annual maintenance needs (para. 52).
IDA Involvement in the Sector
43.       IDA has financed seven projects in the transportation sector in
Niger: four highway projects, one road maintenance project, one feeder road
project, and one project for airport improvement. Five of these projects
were satisfactorily completed and the two ongoing projects are on schedule.
Project Performance Audit Reports have been completed for the Highway Main-
tenance Project and Second Highway Project (OED Report No. 1796 of Novem-
ber 22, 1977) and for the airport project (OED Report No. 2689 of
June 29, 1979). A Project Completion Report is available for the Third
Highway Project (Report No. 5166 of June 28, 1984).  In addition, IDA's
successful experience with institution building for the transport sector in
Niger was prominently featured in Institutional Development in Africa: A
Review of World Bank Experience (OED Report No. 5085, dated May 17, 1984).
PART IV - ROAD PROGRAM AND PROJECT
Rationale for IDA/SAF Involvement
44.       The structural adjustment program described above (para. 12) in-
cludes sectoral strategies and targets for restructuring the Government's
expenditure program and improving resource mobilization. The strategy and
expenditure targets for the transport sector reflect substantially revised
sectoral priorities.  First, recurrent expenditures for road maintenance
are being increased significantly to preserve the utility of existing in-
vestments. Second, the share of the transport sector in the total invest-
ment program has been reduced relative to previous years. No new con-
struction is inc1.uded after ongoing projects are completed, except for eco-
nomically viable, low-standard rural roads associated with agricultural
projects and paving of the Niamey-Say road. The agreed targets for the
structural adjustment expenditure program cover the implementation period
of 1985/86-1987/88. The program covered by the proposed project extends
this period by one year, through 1988/89. Project disbursements will cover
the 1986/87 through 1988/89 annual programs. A program to expand cost re-
covery in the transport sector is also included under the proposed project.



- 14 -
45.       Project preparation began in January  1985 and appraisal took
place in May 1985. However, the investment program for the transport sec-
tor could not be finally determined until appraisal and subsequent nego-
tiation of the Structural Adjustment Credit in September and December 1985
had established overall investment levels for the public sector and subsec-
tors. The transport sector expenditure program envisaged under this proj-
ect is in line with agreements under the Structural Adjustment Credit
(para. 62). Negotiations for this project were held in Washington in March
1986. The Nigerien delegation was led by H.E. Mr. Moumouni Yacouba, Minis-
ter of Public Works and Housing. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5980-NIR)
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A supplement-
ary Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III.
Objectives
46.       The structural adjustment framework for sector investment plan-
ning, combined with DTP's good record in Implementing previous IDA proj-
ects, provides a sound basis for the proposed Transport Sector Project.
The objective of this project is to assist the Government in implementing
its sector strategy, which aims at:
(a)  redire_ting public expenditures for roads to highest prior-
ity needs, mainly in routine and periodic road maintenance;
(b)  increasing road user cost recovery to a level commensurate
with increased road maintenance needs; and
(c) consolidating the institution building initiated under pre-
vious IDA projects.
Policy Component
47.       The policy component of the project deepens and extends the bud-
getary policy measures agreed between the Government and IDA in the context
of the structural adjustment program. Under this project, the transport
sector expenditure program is set out in detail for the first two years
(1985/86 and 1986/87) and in an indicative fashion for the following two
years  (1987/88 and 1988/89).  Subproject selection for the later years
would be made according to criteria agreed under the project. Implementa-
tion experience, annual work programs, and forward planning on a three-year
rolling basis would be monitored through annual reviews with IDA.  The
structural adjustment program also includea a Government commitment to in-
crease its contribution to recurrent road maintenance expenditures by 19Z
per year over the period 1985/86 to 1987/88, considerably faster than any
other item in the recurrent budget. While t .ls step is appropriate in
light of Niger's financial constraints, it alone will not provide suffi-
cient funds to meet routine maintenance needs for the whole network. This
project extends the Government's commitment regarding increasing recurrent
funds for road maintenance to 1988/89. and provides funds to fill the gap
between government allocations and network needs on a declining share basis
over the project period.  Furthermore, under the structural adjustment



- 15 -
program, the Government has made a commitment to improve its performance in
cost recovery.   Under this project,  the Government would implement an
Action Plan with the general objective of meeting all estimated maintenance
expenditures through user charges by 1990, as discussed in para. 52 below.
The Government would also make annual revisions of its equipment rental
rates to recover full costs from users and to eliminate the present budget
subsidy.
48.       The Government has adopted a sectoral strategy statement under
the structural adjustment program which spells out the priority to be ac-
corded to maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing road network, fol-
lowed by construction of economically justified secondary and rural roads.
Under the structural adjustment program, the broad outlines of a public ex-
penditure program were also agreed for the three budget years 1985/86 to
1987/88. In connection with this project, the Government has confirmed the
composition of the transport sector expenditure program for the years
1985/86 to 1988/89, the detailed program for 1986/87, and the criteria to
be used in selecting subprojects for each annual program during the project
implementation period.
49.       About six months before the beginning of each budget year during
the project implementation period, the Government would review with IDA its
implementation experience for the preceding year, progress on the cost re-
covery action plan, policy changes implemented during the past year and
policy choices to be made during the coming year, and would agree with IDA
on the detailed expenditure and work program and cost recoverv targets for
the following year, as well as on a three-year forward plan for investments
and recurrent expenditures. The Government would submit to IDA by March 31
of each year the expenditure program, physical work program, and proposed
cost recovery target for the following fiscal year, and the three-year for-
ward plan. However, as the results of the Transport Study, which will pro-
vide the required background information, will not be available until early
1987, the Government would not submit a cost recovery target for 1987/88
untl- June 30, 1987. Prior agreement with the Association on each annual
work and expenditure program and on the cost recovery target for that year,
and on the three-year forward plan, would be a condition for continuing
disbursement for civil works for road construction and maintenance under
the IDA and SAF credits.
50.       A ceiling of CFAF 12 billion over four years would be set within
the sector investment program for secondary and rural road improvements,
including Phase III of the UNSO program. Selected subprojects would have a
rate of return of not less than 10%.
51.       The Government has allocated CFAF 1.53 billion for the recurrent
costs of routine road maintenance in 1985/86 and has agreed, as noted, to
increase this amount by 19% per year during the structural adjustment peri-
od (para. 47). Thus, Government allocations will be CFAF 1.80 billion in
1986/6? and CFAF 2.16 billion in 1987/88. Under the proposed project, the
Government would continue increasing this allocation at this rate through
1988/89, to CFAF 2.57 billion.  In order to put the DMTP on a sound



- 16 -
financial footing, the Government would also adopt a revised schedule of
equipment rental rates for fiscal year 1986/87 as a condition of credit
effectiveness and would adjust equipment rental rates annually thereafter.
The rates would cover operating costs, maintenance and repair costs, and
depreciation on the basis of replacement value.
52.       During the project period, the Government will carry out a Trans-
port Study financed under the Economic and Financial Management Improvement
Project (Credit 1493-NIR). This study will be executed by consultants in
close collaboration with an interministerial team of Nigerien economists,
representing the Ministries of Comerce and Transport, Public Works and
Housing, Plan, and Finance. The study will examine longer-term policies
and perspectives for growth in the transport sector, with particular empha-
sis on road transport, within the framework of structural adjustment and
the agreed sector strategy. In particular, it will examine the relative
merits of alternative proposals put forward by the Government as means to
meeting its cost recovery targets. The Government would review with the
Association the recommendations arising from the Transport Study and con-
sult with the Association on follow-up actions required to implement them.
The Government would also agree with the Association by June 30, 1987, on
an Action Plan to increase budgetary revenues from road user charges to
cover 100% of routine and annualized periodic road maintenance needs by
1990. This target means that revenues should be raised from an estimated
CPAP 4.3 billion per year in 1984/85 to CFAF 11 billion per year in
1989/90, an increase of about 160% in nominal terms over the five-year
period. The Government has already adopted fiscal measures that should
result in a 35% to 40Z increase in road user revenues for 1985/86, and has
agreed to further measures which should generate an additional 25% increase
in 1986/87. Achievement of the cost recovery target depends partly upon
changes in relative fuel prices between Niger and neighboring countries.
Annual targets will be reviewed and, if necessary, revised in the context
of the annual sector policy liscussions.
53.       The Road Management Unit (BGR) is responsible for collection of
data on road roughness and traffic, calibration and installation of the
Highway Desigc and Maintenance Model, preparation of annual work programs
for periodic maintenance using this model, collection of data on vehicle
operating costs, road user charges and the road transport industry, and
execution of a study of axle load characteristics. Under this project, the
Government would consult with IDA on policy measures to control axle loads,
based on the results of the BGR study.
Physical Program
54.       The program of works to be executed during the project period
includes the routine and periodic maintenance of paved and gravel roads,
bridge repair and replacement, rehabilitation and improvement of secondary
and feeder roads, and ongoing construction projects. Within the planned
expenditure program, approximately 36% would go to road maintenance, 8% to
bridge works, 15% to rural roads, and 30% to ongoing projects. The remain-
ing 11Z would be spent for equipment renewal, workshop rehabilitation, and



- 17 -
institutional strengthening, as well as possible improvement of the
Niamey-Say road.
55.       Routine maintenance would be carried out for the whole of the
6,969 km priority network. The project would finance incremental expendi-
tures required to bring government allocations up to needed levels. Proj-
ect funds would be used to pay for imported fuel and spare parts. Re-
gravelling would be carried out by four established force account crews.
Additional regravelling would be carried out by contract, depending on the
relative economic justification for this activity on specilfic road sections
compared with other possible uses for sector funds. The regravelling pres-
ently provided for in the program does not allow for the whole gravel road
network to be covered at the desirable frequeT-:y of once every five years,
but the planned investment would assure an adequate level of service con-
sistent with overall funding constraints. Ls list of paved sections total-
ling 923 km requiring strengthening and resurfacing has been evaluated by
the BGR. The detailed priority of each section has been established, based
on an analysis using a simplified version of the Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance (HDM) Model. Detailed design and the preparation of contract
documents would be done by consultants.
56.       The Gaya Bridge over the Niger river into Benin is in poor struc-
tural condition and needs to be replaced. This bridge is a vital link In
the acces3 route to the sea which carries the bulk of Niger's trade. In
addition, some of the bridges on the Niamey-Tillaberi road have been un-
dermined by floods during the recent rainy season and need major reha-
bilitation.  This will be undertaken during 1985/86 and 1986/87 using funds
remaining in the credit for the Fourth Highway Project. Provision has been
made under the project to support additional bridge rehabilitation as the
need may arise.
57.       Programs of secondary and rural road improvements are currently
underway in Nige:. The rural road program is financed by IDA. Under this
project, the Government would construct up to 883 km of rural roads and
301 km of secondary roads, selected according to the rural roads evaluation
methodology. The Goverment has also decided to undertake a program of
technical and financial support to communities for labor-intensive rural
road construction to construct short access roads connecting to roads being
improved by Public Works brigades. A pilot program is being set up in
Maradi Department. Support for this pilot program is being provided by
UNDP.
58.       Projects involving new road construction have been severely lim-
ited, as in general rhe economic returns are less than for maintenance.
Eowever, if the Government proposes a subproject with higher economic re-
turns tban some of the maintenance items, it could be included in the pro-
gram. One such example, paving of the Niamey-Say road, has been provision-
ally included in the program. The economic rate of return of this subproj-
ect would be updated and compared with other investment possibilities in
the program before a firm decision is taken to go ahead. Ongoing projects
include the construction of the Zinder-Agadez road with reduced design



- 18 -
standards from Tanout to Agadez, the widening of Takieta-Zinder, and thp
rehabilitation of Djadjiri-Diffa. External financing from grants and con-
cessional loans has already been committed for these projects,
59.       Equipment and Workshops.  The condition of the whole equipment
fleet and the workshops has been examined under the Fourth Highway Project.
The component included in the project would finance fleet renewal and work-
shop rehabilitation.
Institutional Strengthening
60.       Through a series of IDA-financed projects, the Ministry of Public
Works and Housing and in particular the Department of Public Works have
developed a high degree of technical capacity to plan and carry out road
programs. DTP's central and regional services and the rural roads division
now function reasonably well without expatriate assistance.   Under the
Fourth Highway Project, a Road Management Unit (BGR) was set up to plan and
program road maintenance and to carry out special studies. A Public Works
Staff Training Center was constructed, local staff and management have been
selected, and a comprehensive curriculum has been prepared in consultation
with Public Works field staff. Recently, the Equipment Division became a
separate Department and started an ambitious decentralization program.
Institutional capacity in the Department of Public Works has developed to
the point where there is no longer a need for long-term expatriate assis-
tance. However, it is to be expected that DTP will continue to use consul-
tants for specialized tasks. Other branches of MTPH, such as the Adminis-
trative and Financial Department (DAF) or thae Equipment Department (DMTP),
due to recent organizational changes, require long-term technical assis-
tance to promote more effective operations.
61.       To support further institutional development, the project makes
provision for specialized consultant services to be drawn on by the Govern-
ment to meet remaining specific needs. Specific areas where such assist-
ance is required include: (i) construction supervision for periodic main-
tenance works executed by contract; (ii) detailed design and bid documents
for more complicated periodic maintenance works, including strengthening.
where needed, of paved roads; (iii) training in accounting and personnel
management for staff of the Administrative and Financial Department of
MTPH; (iv) specialized assistance to the BGR, including calibration and
inscallation of the HDM Model on appropriate equipment; (v) development of
MTPH data processing capabilities, including possible equipment purchase
and staff training; (vi) management support to the Equipment Department to
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of its services; (vii) special-
ized technical services and training of trainers for the Public Works Staff
Training Center; and (viii) assistance to the Land Transport Department in
the Ministry of Commerce and Transport to improve the efficiency of road
relared revenue collection. These services would be provided under terms
of reference to be agreed with IDA.



- 19 -
Program Costs and Financing
62.       Total expenditures for each year of the program have been deter-
mined taking into account both macroeconomic considerations and sectoral
priority needs. The total resources available for public investment and
decisions on sectoral allocation limit the road sector investment program
in the structural adjustment years to CFAF 8.9, 13.9, and 19.6 billion for
1985/86,  1986/87,  and  1987/88,  respectively.   The  agreed  expenditure
program for 1985/86 includes an additional CFAF 3 billion in expenditures
for work already completed, which will be charged to the 1984/85 budget
year.   The  transport  investment  program  for  1988/89  is estimated  at
CFAF 22.2  billion.    Total  expenditures,   including  both  investment
(CFAF 67.5 billion) and recurrent costs (CFAF 9.2 billion), will amount to
CFAF 76.7 billion over the four-year period (US$212.9 million equivalent).
63.       The amounts needed for recurrent expenditures associated with the
routine maintenance of paved and gravel roads have been determined to be
about CFAF 2.24 billion in 1985/86, CPAF 2.37 billion in 1986/87, CFAF 2.55
billion in 1987/88, and CFAF 2.73 billion in 1988/89.  In support of the
Government's efforts, IDA/SAF would finance the difference between the re-
current maintenance needs and the amount which the Government is able to
allocate (pars. 51), starting in the second program year.  IDA/SAF would
finance a decliniug share of the recurrent road maintenance budget, from
25Z in 1986/87 to 6% in 1988/89.  In the following year, the Government
should once again be able to assume full responsibility for the recurrent
costs of road maintenance.
64.       The financing plan for the project is given in the Credit and
Project Slummary at the beginning of this report. The proposed IDA credit of
US$15 million equivalent, together with the proposed credit of US$15
million equivalent from the Special African Facility, would finance 14Z of
total program costs. Niger is eligible for the Special African Facility,
which already contributed US$40 million equivalent to the Structural Ad-
justment Program. SAP financing is also recommended for the proposed proj-
ect, which entails major sectoral policy reforms and includes components
which are quick-disbursing. The SAP-financed components which are quick
disbursing include the periodic maintenance of paved and gravel roads by
contract, force account regravelling, construction of rural roads, equip-
ment purchase, workshop rehabilitation and equipment, and associated
studies, supervision and technical assistance. The Government of Japan has
indicated that it intends to contribute US$20 million equivalent to the
project under the Special Joint Financing (SJF) arrangement. It is expect-
ed that the terms of the cofinancing from Japan would be equivalent to
those of IDA and that it would consist of a US$4 million equivalent grant
and a US$16 million equivalent loan from the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund.
65.       Niger can finance only a very small part of the net-of-tax cost
of the program, except for routine maintenance where Niger would finance
88% of the cost.  In all, Niger would finance US$27.6 million or about 13%



- 20 -
of total program costs, compared with a local cost component estimated to
be 25Z.
66.       Part of the first and second year expenditure programs will be
financed under ongoing IDA projects: the 1985/86 rural road program
(US$1.7 million) under the Feeder Roads project, and the bridge rehabilita-
tion component (US$3 million) under the Fourth Highway Project. Other do-
nors presently contributing to the road sector are: (i) CIDA for Djajiri-
Diffa; (il) EDP for Takieta-Zinder and Zinder-Agadez; (iii) AfDF, Islamic
Development Fund, Saudi Fund, ABEDA and OPEC Fund for Zinder-Agadez; and
(iv) Italy, Norway and United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Office (UNSO) for
secondary road construction. All of these donors are elpected to continue
their programmed contributions into the project period.
67.       EDF has recently allocated 20Z of its sixth program grant for
Niger (estimated at about US$23.7 million) to road maintenance. In addi-
tion, EDF regional funds may be made available to finance the periodic
maintenance and widening of the Takieta-Nigeria road. AfDF is expected to
contribute about US$10 million to periodic maintenance. CCCE will finance
the Gaya Bridge. UNDP is financing the pilot phase of the labor-based ru-
ral track improvement program.
68.       Taking  into  account  the  available  financing  described  in
paras. 64-67 above, there remains a financing gap of about US$11 million
equivalent in the last year of the program. The Government proposes to
convene a donor meeting later this year to discuss sector policies and pro-
grams, and will raise the issue of the additional financing required for
the project, if it is still outstanding. Given the importance of the sec-
tor and the priority of the investments included in the program. there
should be no difficulty in obtaining supplementary donor financing.
Procurement and Disbursement
69.       For items procured under the IDA and SAF credits, the procurement
methods are summarized in the table on the following page. Amounts in
parentheses indicate IDA/SAP participation.
70.       Procurement of IDA-financed components would be in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. Procurement of SAF-financed components would be in accordance
with the SAF procurement guidelines. No difficulties have been experIenced
with procurement by 1TPH under the ongoing Feeler Road and Fourth Highway
Projects. A review of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures in Niger
was completed in October 1985. The local competitive bidding procedures as
applied by MITPH are generally acceptable.
71.      All civil works financed by IDA/SAP would be executed by con-
tract, except for force account operations for routine maintenance and re-
gravelling. These force account operations, which were established with
IDA assistance, have worked reasonably well. For ICB, contractors would be
prequalified. For LCB, the prequalification would be based upon NMPH' s



- 21 -
permanent register of contractors, with a provision for post qualification.
Procurement decisions involving contract amounts of maore than US$300,000
equivalent would be subject to prior review by IDA, covering 87% of project
expenditures. IDA/SAP financing of part of the routine maintenance costs
on a decreasing scale would be limited to the procurement of supplies, in-
cluding fuel, lubricants and parts for equipment and vehicles.
Procurement under IDA/SAP Credits
(US $ million)
Items Financed by IDA/SAF Credits          ICB       LCB       Other     Total
Periodic maintenance of                   11.4         _       31.5      42.9
paved roads                             (6.1)       -        (0.0)      (6.1)
Periodic maintenance of                    -         4.1        4.7       8.8
gravel roads                             -        (2.3)      (2.3)      (4.6)
Bridge rehabilitation                      -         7.8        -         7.8
-        (2.7)       -        (2.7)
Rural road construction                    -         --        12.1      12.1
-         -         (5.9)     (5.9)
Equipment and workshops                    9.6       -          -         9.6
(5.5)      -         -         (5.5)
Consulting services                                  -          6.4       6.4
-         -         (3.3)     (3.3)
Routine maintenance                                   -        25.5      25.5
__         -          (1.9)   (1.9)
Total                                21.0       11.9       80.2      113.1
(11.6)      D&       I3-4        (30401
72.       The IDA/SAP funds would be disbursed as follows: 95% of eligible
expenditures for road construction and maintenance (US$14 million); 95% of
workshop rehabilitation and equipment renewal expenditures (US$5.4 mil-
lion); 100% of institutional strengthening expenditures (US$2.6 million);
and 100% of expenditures for fuel, lubricants, and supplies for routine
maintenance, up to a limit of US$1.6 million in 1986/87. US$1.0 million In
1987188, and US$0.5 million in 1988/89. An additional US$4.9 million re-
mains unallocated. SAF funds would be disbursed first, SJF next, and IDA
last. Goods and services required in the early project years would be pro-
cured under SAF procurement guidelines to ensure fast disbursement of the
SAP credit. Consequently, the IDA disbursement would be slower than usual.
The combination of the SAP, SJF and IDA credits make up the standard dis-
bursement profile.



- 22 -
73.       Two revolving funds are proposed for this project: one for the
IDA credit and one for the SAF credit.  Each would be of US$1,000,000
equivalent. The funtds would be reimbursed from the respective credits upon
submission of withdrawal applications by the Government.  In addition, a
local account for the Government's contribution to expenditures for items
under the investment budget would be established as a condition of credit
effectiveness. The amount of the initial deposit in this account would be
CFAF 40 million, or about 5% of the IDA/SAF contribution, and it would be
replenished by the Government at the same time as the IDA/SAF revolving
fund replenishments.
Accounts and Audit
74.       The Local Advance account, revolving funds, and project accounts
within MTPH would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA and such audits would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the end
of each fiscal year. The Government is taking action to complete the firqt
annual audit of the Fourth Highway Project, due in April 1986. The report
is expected by September 1986.
Project Benefits and Risks
75.       Policy changes to be implemented under the project would improve
revenue performance and resource allocation and bring allocations for road
maintenance into line with future needs. The institution building compo-
nent would enhance the capacity of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing
in road management, equipment management, and staff development. The proj-
ect's economic benefits are principally derived from a reduction in vehicle
operating costs on the existing road network. Ongoing road construction
and rehabilitation projects under the program have rates of return ranging
from 5% to 18%. No new construction or rehabilitation projects would be
accepted into the program unless they can be shown to have rates of return
exceeding those calculated for periodic maintenance, which range from 14%
to 130%.  Secondary and rural road construction would be limited to roads
with rates of return not less than 10%.
76.       Additional, non-quantified benefits would be derived from the
project's contribution to road safety and reduction in travel times. Time-
ly replacement of the Gaya Bridge over the Niger river will assure the
country's continued access to its principal external supply route to the
sea. Secondary and rural road improvements would encourage additional ag-
ricultural activity by providing transport links between food producing and
consuming areas. The pilot program in labor-based construction would also
contribute to the growth of community self-help capacity.
77.       The main risk is that the Government may not be able to provide
sufficient funds when needed for routine road maintenance or for counter-
part funding for the planned investments. Specific measures to minimize
this risk have been included in the project as well as in the structural
adjustment program. Other risks include inadequate revenues from equipment
rental, failure to implement the propcsed action plan to raise user charge



- 23 -
revenues, and failure to secure complementary investments for rural roads.
Particular attention would be paid to these aspect:s during project supervi-
sion.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed African Facility Credit would
comply with the provisions of Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed African Facili-
ty Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 7, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-24 -                                               ANNE=X I- 
24-                                 ~~~~~~Page 1 of 6
1  A _-L C     b       D
33y 1!bLW                                       W C1s AtChI
196O&      197.        T . 1mt or SAM"                    AFRICA S. OF SMAIA
AA(TNain e.  ) 
nWMN.                             1267.0      1267.0     1267.0
AMILIILTUEAL                       122.0       130.0      133.2
Mr "a e@ IK (US)                        ..         ..        240.0              233.8                   1063.3
mm! qmmwtm   mK carrm
(KILOGRIA  OF OIL    N   )VALN)     3.0        16.0        32.0              6L3                      531.5
USUA?I3  A   TAL imu
POPOATU0,IUD-13AR (7103SA1)   3234.0         4146.0      6042.0
OM POPMATIIUIC (0F TDTAL)           5.3         3.4        13.3              20.1                      32.0
FOIULAIOUSUTIOUUaWcro
IIOUOL&1II I T1UR 2000 oaLL)                             10.5
31103? UDOLATION (MILL)                                  40.0
IOFU3ATIOU UmIEMIW1 2.0
POPULATIO NWIT
PR SQ. in.                         2.6        3.3         4.3               33.2                     65.1
M  SQ.  . A01 LAMO              25.3        31.9        44.1              1112.                    124.6
POFUATIOE ACU 11TOMU CtZ )
0-14 US                          4.7        46.2        45.9               6.0                      45.6
13-f  us                         52.6        51.1        51.4              50.8                      51.5
65 SAD ANOV                        2.5        2.5         2.5               2.9                       2.7
IOPULTIOU Cau5 3*2 CZ)
TOTL                               1.2        2,5         2.9                2.8                      2.9
O3All                              3.0         6.2        6.9               6.4                       5.1
c@ma am  3m  CPU  mO)              47.3        49.6        52.0              47.2                      47.0
"'ON  L1      N 1 CM  UIU)         26.0        24.2        19.7               17.3                     15.0
M3S5  I3OEICTIOE RAT3               3.3         3.3         3.4               3.3                       3.2
FMILY PIANNUS
. _m        AMAL CT ))             ..
es n  (I oF m = MM=)               ..         ..          1.0                3.3                      6.4
21035 OF MOOD M30. PU CArrA
C19W71-100)                        112.0       96.0        8.0               83.3                      82.9
__ Cum  surIr  Or
04L3.01C (o OF  q0133fS)         100.0       U.0        100.0              87.7                      98.5
MCO  (E111CGA4   M  0T)          65.0        56.0        71.0              51.9                      55.4
OF 33X10 3*IIL An p0j1           18.0        13.0       26.0               18.7                     16.5
cs:-a (A3 1-4) DII  MU             51.0        41.0        28.0              23.1                      16.6
Lm   mW3. AT BX32  (1MA)           40.6        41.4        44.9              47.6                      52.0
.  AN MM.   (M   C   10)          191.0       171.0       139.0             119.5                     108.8
01155 TO 31133W13  C390)
TOTAL                                        20.0        33.0 24 27.1                                42.6
03B3*                             ..         37.0        41.0 7j           63.5                      67.5
RURAI                             ..         19.0        32.0              19.3                      35.6
LOCUS To EXCRA DISYOSII
(I or OOPMATO)
TOTAL                              *          1.0         7.0 fd           26.5                      23.9
IIUU                               ..        10.0        36.0              65.4                      57.7
3.UAL                              ..         ..          3.0 d            20.3                      20.7
POArP 011 PU Pr8  nCIA          92400.0    60090.0    38790.0 L           27901.7                   11791.7
10P. M  315C  1300               940.0 f   7260.0        4450.0            3303.4                    2459.8
POP. Paz  A3143L   =
TOtAL                           2480.0     2300.0      1640.0 1          1273.6                     931.1
ga31s ".                                    370.0       *20.0             426.2                     361.8
RAL                               ,,        380.0      2020.0            3292.5                    4371.9
AIZUSSZ   PIM NOMTAL 33D            10.4 lb    34.7 f       ..                ..                       27.2
ASLOK S312  OF II1SOLD
TOTAL                             ..          ..
mm                                ..          ..          .                  ..
331.                              ..          ..          .                  ..
AWID   D. OF PSS30
TOTAL                              ..         ..          .                  ..
am                                ..          ..          .                  ..
32*1                               ..         ..          .                  ..
IZSOUL                              ..         ..LIO       ..D               ..S ..
TOTAL..                              ..          .                   ..
onax



25 -                                                ANNEX I
T A -  L -  U                                  Page  2  of 6
"t  .    .      TAIL  24 *IW            T
NIcE                   - SOIAL INDICATOSS DATA SUNT?
NICe                                 UPwiS IcS mar (wncIGn   AVon") jg
"oST                     (MUT SCSI? dUWTATM) b
t,sofk.  ~    KCE:            u im  Nc  AntC            NEOLI INCOME
tsw9b  1y9&  Z STI TA/b              mom  CW  AAIA         Ai'RicA S. IW bANAkA
AUIUJT1D OINNOLIJIT RATIO$ 
PUDIAMs  TOTAL                     5.0        14.0        23.0 1            07.8                      95.7
NM                      7.0        15.0        im .7m             77.e                     IOO.0
101Llt                   3.0        9.0         io To-            54.9                      33.2
SWUDARf TOTAL                      0.3         1.0         4.0 to            134-                      17.3
HLC                      1.0        2.0         5.o T             17.9                      25.0
VOCALZ                  0.1         1.0         2.o 7;-            9.1                      14.x
VOCATIONL CS OF SONDART)             4.3         2.7         1.3               13.2                       5.9
PENIL-TZh=R RATIO
PIDWI?                           4*3.0        39.0        43.0               64.9                      51.1
SECONDA                           11.0        20.0        2|. /              27.4                      25.5
PASSER CASITNUOJD POP                0.3         1.4         2.:4               3.8                     2b.8
1A*1   SZVI3SJTUOSANDI POP           3.0        35.0        *5-9               55.8                     107.l
N    .mzc mfIOTauD POP               ..          ..          1.2                2.b                      20.8
=5105ZR ("DaILy RSUsL
llW r)  -CUlLON
PER  TNOCSAIID IOULATION            0.3         0.5         0.9                5.0                      15.4
C0UB  ANIL ADTJC/CAP                 ..          0.2         ..                 0.5                       0.4
asa
TOTL LABO1 PCi (1 MOUS)           1054.0      1320.0      1900.0
ENAUL (PCe?T)                      9.0         9.7        10.2               34.2                      3b.2
SOLIDUE (PsawT)                   91.0        93.0        91.0 /d            77.5                      54.5
INDOTIW ClUCKS)                    1.0         2.0         3.0 7i-            9.7                      15.3
mARClnPTION   UTZ (tlRuCu)
TOTAL                             32.         31.8        31.3               39.3                      35.6
MAI                               60.2        35.1        57.3               50.9                      47.1
10W.!Z                             5.9         6.1         6.3               28.1                      27.2
icsomc BIDENCc  RATIO                1.4         1.5         1.5                1.3                       1.3
uns-n-
PUCE! or PRIVA   INCOS
NRIVD U
s r E        aT r s OP  .s.oS                            ..                ..
81CIILST 2O OP uoouos              ..          ..
LOiWST 20 OF  USOLD                ..          ...
-ilS  46S OP tmWSU0I*              ..          ..          .                   ..
Iw cuss a seum f3"
zEM  (US$P   CLTA
gumA                               ..          ..        133.0 Ic           165.5                    550.7
Su                                 ..          ..          ..               95.0                     275.3
znmuIT  fLATlY! P070    DIO
Iz.VZL Cu PE CAPITA)
A                                  ..          ..          ..               113.1                    545.5
rEim]                              ..          ..         53.0 Ic           67.5                     201.1
ISTINUT  POP. SELOW AS*oum
POVEIf INCoS IIm. (S)
URAN                               ..          ..          ..               36.6
uA                                 ..          ..          ..                 1..6
Or AVAXILABZ
Mr APPLICARIX
NO T I S
Is  The gaop averages for edac  bdleatotr are pqpuiatLna-tbted witbestic mas. Coverag  of ceentrls
sna  the Indleators depends - awaliadilty of data and in not uaLfox.
lb   ln. acharetse noted. "Dat for 1960  efer to any year betwee  1959 and 19I1; "Dta for 1970" bltwee
1969 and 1971; ad data for '%aet Recent Eatteae" betwe   1951 and 1983.
Ic  1977;  Id 1980;  Ia 1976; If 1952;  LL 1976; lb 195;  11 1955.
JUS 195



- 26-                                            ANNEK I
Page 3 of 6
D1I1Nl1ONS OF SOCAL VIDICATOD
No.Aihoiw tdwaadrn ft. scws. ussailt4Judpd the ten as       dva sd raae, is shol Wm ke noe diat dhY May no be tatarnadonaly
napaabla beam e drtlc kle o meta_dazdbad ditm ad mucps medl by dl t mwntriss In coilsetk da. Th data an, nonethlss, uelid to
duemibe ordnl  f _mpltwdm Indicate raft sad charedas c rmain major d _rauc  betcar. countre.
Tb. I amam poups m (I) te sum aDmay pop of the askbje iontry and (2) a eounmy poup with some4at hih avemse Income tha t1e couny
poofrtsebjm ceuty (acaptf ru High lmsOlH Epmnsu" gpop we 'Midd Incmue Nth Afri and Middle ate is choe baum o  rowr
Isoao.aaltw  _altb)i In de rIa  pmp dam *A avaao am popuon wAitd dthtic ueamoa or  Indo and hdo only when maoiy
f1   usmi. in a raw hasdaaror dtl bike Sim Om oovea ocuntuu amrg d Idlatoe depends n hek availability rdain an is not mnfon.
cution s.  beet mdedli misg avsage atene indicator to another. Tmue aerap are only umfial incompaing the valine a*n tIicator at ails anionS
the oomar7 and r c I ompa
ARlEA (thoauazldsq.km.)                                        Cra* AlthARar (persthomad)-N umberoflive births in the year
Tbe.--Total surfac    compriung land am and inland wates       per thousand of mid-year poptlation; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Crhe Death Rare (per thmad)-Number of deaths in the year
iodcairEstimatc of agricubual area used temporarily or        per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 19e3 data.
pcrmanently for crops, pamst , arnket and kitcn ardens or to  Gross Rervdou Rat-Average number ofdaughters a woman
liHe fow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in ber norml reproductive period if she expeiencs
present asecific ferttihty rates: usually five-year averas ending
GNP PER CAPrFA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at curftnt       in 1960.1970, and 1983.
market priccs, cakulated by sme converko  method as fOrid      Family Pana-Aptcs, A_md l(thmsaadr)-Annual nun-
Bank* A tes (198143 basis) 1933 data.                        hber of acceptors ofbirth-control devic  under auspice of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual appant                    family planning progm
conumption of commercial pimary enrgy (coal and lignite,    FiuamifPlimimrg-User cent f mrtjled nremmarse prcen-
petrolum, natural gas nd hydro-. nuekar and geothermal elec-   tage of married women  bfchild-bearing age wbo are practicing or
tricity) in kigam  of oil equivalut per capia; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands arc practicing any form of contraception. Women
1932 data.                                                    orchild-iaring age am gencrally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other agc
POPULATION AND VfiAL STATIlSTCS                               group.
Totalr Potifa, MidJ Yew (tdrinh)-As of Juy 1; 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTTItON
and 1983 data.
Urban hpmlaeieu (perent of  ~   Of  ~   ~      Indx of Fotd Predutti.. Per CAqpba (1969-71 - 18111-index of per
Urhm Popmktim (percew of road)-Raw of urban to total          capta annuael production of all food commodities Production
populato  ddfernt defintion of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes anima feed and swed for agrcuturc. Food commodities
aility of data among countrie  1960. 1970. and 1983 data       include prinmary commodities (eg. sugrcane insted of supr)
P,puftie. Ph*edomu                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popuation t  yer 2000-The projction of population for 2000.   excluded) they comprise ceral% root crops. pulses, oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits, nut sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock. and
total population by age and sx, fertility rats, mortality rtes, and  livestock products. A.Wegate production of each country is based
internaonal mnigation in the base year 1980, these parameters  on national avwe producer price weights; 1961-5. 1970. and
were projected at frv-year intervals on the bais of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the popublaion becam statioay.               Pr Gld  Sp* ef aJork  (peCent ef _ats           omput.
Statinary poplazua-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while agespcific  per capita per day. Avaiable supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports =ss exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate -1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animia feed, seeds for use in agriculturc, quantities usd in
confant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requiments wem
constant, and the growth rate is zero. Tbe stationary population  esfimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was cstimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmetal temperature, body weights,
the populaion in the year 2000. and the rate of declne of fertility  age and sex distribution orpopulation. and allowing 10 prent for
rate to replacement levde                                      waste at household lvel; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Ppulatin Mon,enn-Is the tendency for population growth to     Pr Cwi Sqpy of oPbtn (gram per day -Protcin content of
cratinue beyond the time that replacement-leved fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction mae has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 gams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultinate staionary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replkce-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
meat level from year t onward, 1985 daut                       75 gams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popsa ien Desity                                               average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total at:a; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.               Pr Capa Protoia Spply hem Anmal an Pulse-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agricautural laud-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pulses in grams perday: 196165.
land only, 1960, 1970. and 1982 data                           1970 and 1977 data.
Pipdahin Age S     hruaw (percar)-Children (0-14 years) work-  Chid (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per theassad)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
RpJatm Grwt Rate (percmre-4eta--Annuml growth rates of         from life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-yea population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-83.    HEALTH
pfieo Grwt          e (p     )        Annua gmovth rates       Life Erpec. y at Birth (years-Number of years a newbom
or urban population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-9S data.    infant would live ir prevading patterns of mortality for all people



-27-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at de  i of of its bih wee to say the ane throughout its lifc  AWNtewhw ratb - prhiwp. ad aec.ndury-Toial sunu en-
lff4 1970 ad 19S3 data.                                       roed In prinary and ssooudmiy levels dvided by  umbers of
Nw5m   J        ae (pm       -Nwmnei   of  ants wbo die    tewckm  km thie corapoeding levels.
befoI e t  Ueacn Om    ora  per        live births in a  iven
year 1960,1970 and 193 data.                                  CONSUMPFION
A     *S  r  W (uwf (         Fw-U         d.f  1    arise, M'  Iswq    Can (Par U ~ ppalm)-ftner  coan-
l. -Number of people (tot urban, mmd) wth mumable             prim motor oas matng le  tha apg  peao    eld    ambul
Samoa o are wat  supply (nhcde treated .ufm  watu  or         anus,  aseai and mililtay eiles.
untm    bu hut               S water such a tt frm  prtcted   Raf  Reivr (pm LWind              )-Ag ye of recivs
b      ul    g and saary wes) m pe ts of theirtempec-         for radio broadcast to geald public per thouad orpopulation;
dwe populations. In an urban *  a public fonain or rJnpod  exwki,   u-licmd reieivr in countries ad in yes  when
eed not more tha 200 m        fron a houe my be mos           registration of radio st wa in erect; data for  et years may
- being within reasonable am  or thlat ho. n rwu  ae   w        t be comparable dam  most coutrie abolishd HoIng.
sea sorhonn  would imply that the houewire or members of he    TVDWI (per           pepam )-TVreu v'w     forbroadcas
hous_od do no have to sped a d*prpoeiet part oitk d           ty  rvtouan p                          cu   unue V
Mume de &         s Wai  _W                                   tS   ! lpubLicpertho_d   ip_;iox desks  TwV
c terov  in counties and in yasn   restration ofTV st was
Access MP Ezem. mkwm  (paww  ofJuWalatie             iet n,   iii effect.
n dWn -Nunber of people (total urban, and rual) srved by
tlet dipol as pe tens  of their respecive populations.   C_                  bi  (s _                    S       the a
Excrta dipoal may include the cection and dispoL with or      ap dirculation of 'daily gnal intemest newmpea. ddond as a
withou  tmnrment. of human earta and wast-water by  ater-    pica pubication devoted pimay to reording   el newa.
bone qs m or the use or pit pnivie and simiu inUsaltiops.     I is consideed to be "daily if it apper at lat four tim  a week.
Phr,uI M   pr nP,sutia-Population dided by number of p.       Citmax Amed Autlaw  pff Cqd per Yaw-4ased on the
tisn physcian qualfe frm a medical sbool at univty level      number of ckets old during the year, including admisio  to
Pep_miejr p. Niag IhsP':mu-lopuIation divided by number of    drive-in cinma and mobile units.
prctiig male and female grduate nDUt asitant nures,
practicial nurse  nd nursing auxiliaries.                     LAOR FORCE
_%y Id   pg Hq*J 5Nd-4s    w_so, m  tliad.' Flron              r      w        (&Ooima )-Economically active persons in.
(totl, urba  and rual) divided by their rpecv  number of      duding armed fors nd unemployed but excluding houswives.
ho pit l beds mv4ibble in pubic oW pfivate. pocral m. sped-lo   d tudents, etc., coveig population of all a. Definits in
hospitals  an bailblution publi   Hoart, g e esmala shinents  various countries are not comparabl; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently stald by at keat one phyician Establislments prov-    J i_ (p    -Inak labor fomr  a perontlae or total labor
idig prncipacy custodi   e are not included. Rur  hospials.   forcc.
bowever. include heath and modicl cns  not permaently arffed  Aicahir (perear)-Labor fome in faming, forestry, hunting
by a physican  ut by a medical assisn  nuse, midwi, etc.)    and fiing as pe tsge of total labor forme; 196  1970 and 1980
which odr in-patient aoconmodation nd provide a limited ange  data.
Of medkal facibt .Adunry (pnwi)-Labor force minin. onstrucbon, manu-
A.     ;r per 0lsiu fre-Total number of admissons to or       fauring and lectricity. water and as as perentage of toutl lbor
dischg  from hospitals divided by the number of beds.         force; 1960,1970 and 1980 dant.
P*d'        Ratr (peveark-e.id,al. mi_i -Piti on
HOUING                                                        or actity rates ae computed as total, mae, and emak lbor forc
,*Pqe  mre of   NA    (p-wsur p'                   i ,         s pecenauges of totl male and female pqo tion of al aes
2ardI-A houshold consist of a group    diuals wbo shr         respectivdy; 1960, 1970, and 1983 dat. Thes am baed on WO's
livg quulas and their maSin meals. A boarder or lodger may or  partcipation rates rellectingage-sc: suctureoftb e popution. and
may Ot b; incuded in the household for statisticl purpos.     lomg ie trend. A few esntites are fron natona sour
Aveg Ndenr of Persons pw Reo-ral, she, nd aral-               Ecaxrac DepeAday R_i-Ralio of population under IS, and
Averae number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 nd over, to the working a*  population (thos agd 15-64).
o d conventional dwellings, respeiy. Dwllin  exclude
non n-pernant suctures and unocpied pUats.                    INCOME DlSTRUllON
hvCep of Di,W& .os NM  kip -Md. shea oltsUi-                  Mrcaate oJ Toed   ges k Aom  (huh i c_k ad Aia)-
Cnventional dwellings with eectricity in living quartrs aspen-  Acdung to percen   groups of houseols ranked by total hous-
tre of totaL urban. and mral dwdlings rptively.               hold income.
EDUCAllON                                                     POVERTY TARGEI GROUPS
A#cnW Emognew Radw                                    The folowing estimates are very approwmiate measues of poverty
I}fy Mool - emaia  and f            G s wtO1 malea            les and should be intepreted with consideable cautin.
fale enrolnent of all ags at the prmary level as peroclages of  EtnieredAhdtwe Pe'   hme Lad (U5per eqif)-mr6a
respective primary school-age populations While many countries  ad nwI-Absolutc povet incmemevel is that inome level
conider prmumy shool age to be -IlI yeas others do nor The    below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essntial
diffaerens in country practices in the agS and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
ar reflected in the ratios givenL For some countries with universal  Es cired Relatve hvanj ime Lawd (UM per ceita)-.sta
eduaion gross enollment may exced 100 perceo t sinrr so5m     and  eaIL-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standad primy-school  aveage per capita personal income of the country. Urban  Icvel is
We.                                                           derived from the rural klvl with adjustment for higher cost of
SecxL4- sdwool - seal mal aidfemak-Computed as above;    living in urban areas
sondary education requires at la  four years of approved pni-  Ek*uarrd Pobp imlsa Ilaw Ahs    #Wery Jcme Lel (per-
mwry instruction; provides geral, vocationaL or teacber tuanng  aw)-wlr aind mrel- Ptrcent of population (urba and rural
inuctons for pupas usually of 12 to 17 yars of a; cospond-    who are -absolute poor.'
mm coure   arc genermy exduded.
V cad  Finrani (peuw of s-aVdwy)-Vocational instu-                     Compartive Analysis and Data Division
include tehical industrial or other proams wbich opert              Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independenty or as departments of secondary institutions                              June 1985



- 28-                                                       ANNEX I
Pqe 5 of 6
111N    : E    ECOUUNII C  IlICIIl                                  Page
Anel Irneth ltm  (121 at Cusltnt Fri cm
bent                        Actdl               Est.                   Projectid
(Illilous of
Indicator                           13 U11          199      1IM2     1913     14       1M      1916     197      199      1999     19O
MTIONL ACCWIUTS
Gross komstic Product                  1770        1.01   -0.11    -2.62   -16.02      7.11    4.01     1.31    I.2       1.91     1.91
gricultur                            117        0.41     1..3    -3.58   -20.1    16.41    4.3Z      2.22    2.35      2.42    2.52
Industry                              305      -20.25    -7.n      0.9r  -21.12    7.31      1.2S     13       1.52     1.62     1.52
of eihich   lining                  146      -29.02   -12.1Z     3.42  -11.2S      O.1      0.02    *.02    0.0o     0.02     0.01
hrvicts                               574        7.91   -0.31   -0.91   -16.92      9.31    5.42      0.12    0.42      o.12     O.1
Import Tan  nd Dlti.                   74       -54U      2.52   -17.02  -21.12    1.01    O.U4   -0.9n        4.52     4.32     4.5
Coumption                              1678       19.12   -3.72      4.22   -7.62   -2.2Z   -1.t1       O.01     1.22     1.62     L.
Brno Fintd Capital Formatim            239      -16.92  -33.32   -16.01   -17.72    -9.32      1.02    3.2      6.6      2.52     L.n
Exports of Goods                        371        2.72  -111.3n     1.2   -10.92    -9.O    -4.22      9.02     1.n      1.5      1.62
Imports of toeds                        422       -1.'   -11.32   -14.91   -7.22    11.52   -17.11    6.02       O.5      0 o0.    o0.3
PRICES                                              1991    I192      1993    1994   I195       1        1        1996    1M        1990
SOP kflator (193100)                              94.5    92.9       100   108.7   116.9   125.0   134.0   143.0   153.0   164.0
Etchwn   Rate ICFIIUSSil        (aveagel         271.7   329.6   391.1   437.0   472.4
Export Price Indeux 11983100                     100.4    99.1   100.0   106.7   108.7   111.4   116.6   123.6   131.0   136.4
Iqprt Price Index 119831001                     101.6   102.9   100.0    99.7   101.5   103.0   111.3   120.1    1s?.7   139.7
Taus of Trade bda (1983.100)                      98.9    96.3   100.0   107.0   107.1   100.2   104.9   102.9   101.0    97.6
Shae of 6P at Nuret Prics (2)                    brage Anual Incres  ISI
lIt current pricnl)                            lt tonstant pricns
Catoery                                    1970    1975      1990    1985      1             1970-75  I975-0  1990-5  1985-
Gross Doitic Product                           100.02   100.02   100.02   100.02   100.42             0.32     7.11   -2.62      2.12
Agriculturc                                  42.0    46.4      42.61    44.52    4.2               2.32     5.32    -0.52     2.72
Industry                                     10.12    27.52    22.71    17.22    15.72            22.42    3.12    -8.92      1.42
of ich:  lining                             0.11    5.JI    12.62    9.21    7.42              130.72   24.92   -10.51      0.02
Snvicn                                       29.22    21.72    29.72    35.02   30.42             -5.52    14.12   -0.72      1.51
Import Taxns/Dutin                           l.7       4.52     5.02    3.42    5.52             -24.92    11.62   -8.52      2.62
Share in 6W
Consstion                                    96.72    96.92    77.42    97.12   99.12              0.32     4.72     1.62     o.7
Gross Fixd Cpital Forutio                    16.92    21.92    291.3    12.92    11.51             5.51    12.9Z   -19.02     3.12
Exports of 6Gods                             12.32    19.51    22.52    20.22    19.51             9.92   12.12   -5.92       1.n
1mot of Goads                                23.92    25.91   31.32   24.42   22.22                9.02   10.6    -5.12    -2.22
PMILIC FINANCE                                               1975    1990    1985    1990
(Billins of Carrat CFAFI
Currnt Ren                                            20.2    64.1    68.0       9.3
Currnt Expvi4litures                                  17.3    50.8    70.4    73.1
Current Suwplu  (  or Wficit (-)                       2.9    13.3    -2.4    26.2
Capital Exsnditure                                     1.3    70.2    55L       96.0
Frdign Finncil  (lncluding                               -    40.4    52.5    67.8
rnescbling



-29 -                                                  ANNEX I
BALANCE   IF   PAYNENTS   and  EXTERNAL   CAPITAL   and   DEBT
ktual                Est.             ProJectd
CATEOriDY                              11  --
1931   - 1912    1993    1914    1985    198         1917      931    I19B      1990
RSH     F IALANEPAYNOTS                                              mN. illuons of Currunt US f1
Exports of Sci                             497.6    369.1   370.9    308.3   264.3   295.2   317.2   342.0   368.0    399.3
of uhich:  Orauie                          373.5    279.2   290.7   230.3   215.3   249.2   261.7   274.5    28.7   302.9
Agriculture and                  124.1     90.1    *1.4    :4.0    33.0    34.9    40.7    51.7    62.4    43.4
LiMrstock
lprts of 6oods                           -662.1   -533.7  -422.5  -340.9  -357.7  -330.9  -37.0   -411.0  -447.0  -495.3
of uhichi   Food                            29.4      27.7    32.3    25.2    74.9    37.5    33.9         0.5    42.1    43.7
Other CusumUr Goods               94.9     91.3   124.9    93.4    96.4    9A.    104.5   109.8   115.2   121.0
Petrolmu  and Its Product.       135.4    119.2    34.6    27.0    33.7    40.7    41.6    42.8    43.7           44.9
Intar.iate I tapital soots       125.7    295.5   131.9   152.2   115.2    13.0   145.0   164.2   197.1    211.5
Servicn (noetl                            -115.2   -119.7    -3.5   -92.6   -92.0   -92.7    -3.7   -99.1   -6.9   -9.
Transfers                                  109.6    108.0    90.1    73.3   109.1    94.,    99.9    97.6    113.3   132.1
Private                                  -46.4    -36.5   -39.4   -32.1   -31.3   -32.9   -37.5   -40.3   -43.5    -47.0
Pubicic                                  154.9    144.5   119.5   105.4   139.4   117.7   127.3   137.9   156.9    179.1
Current kctuat Balance                     -171.1   -175.3   -65.0   -51.9   -77.2   -53.5   -60. 7    -60.5   -54.2   -50.5
Current kcount Balance                    -326.9   -319.9  -184.5  -157.1  -216.6  -17:.2  -199.0  -199.4  -211.1  -229.6
exciuding Public Transfers
Financing Ite,, Total                      201.4      45.4    76.4    43.9       4.7      3.1    27.2    43. 9      62.3     76.4
NT loans (net)                             236.6      25.B    3B.4    44.5    ;4.3        7.5    27.2    43.9    62.3        764
Official-source Ioans (net)              254.1      46.0    46.5    56.4    32. 4      15.9    27.7    39.9    57.9        70.3
Private-snurce luns (not)                -19.2    -Z2.2   -28.1    -9.9    -9.2    -8.3          0.0      4.9      5.4      7.4
Other Capital lnet)                        -23.2      19.4    39.1    -2.7       0.4    -4.4       0.0      0.0      0.0     ;).0
Overall halance                         36.6   -129.9    11.4    -7.9   -52.3   -50.4   -:3.5   -16.6            9.1    :9
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursemnts                        279.3    204.0   116.3   117.9   107.6
Public                                 :84.1    114.4    97.7   L13.5    93.3
External Det
Outstanding and Disbursed                962.5    920.9   983.4   915.4   976.3
Debt Service on NILT
Total (before Rescheduling)              153.8    193.9   139.0   151.0   134.7
of dich:  Interest                      83.1       i..    63.7    62.0    57.3
Principal                     70.7    112.1    74.3    99.0    77.4
Rncheduliag                                                  9.0     4.0    ;.5
Total tafter Reotdiul:nql                153.8    193.9   1:1.0   10.0    96.2
Peycents as I of Exports  a via Resc.      o0.9%    52.51   34.41    45.2?   44.73
of 6oods and Ihn Factor: uith Peso.                        32 .?    ;0.51   ;3.35
Services
-- - -- - - -- - - - ----    - - - - -- - - - - -- -- - - - -  --- --- - -  -    - - - - - -



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1986)
Borrower: Republic of Niger
US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                               Amount (less cancellation) c/
Number     Year      Purpose                   IDA a/ b/         Undisbursed
Fourteen credits fully disbursed               78.8                   -
885      1979      Livestock                  12.0                  3.87
886      1979      Feeder Roads               10.0                  0.92
967      1980      Dosso Agr. Dvt.            20.0                 16.80
1026      1980      Second Maradi Rural Dvt. 16.7                    9.01
1151      1981      Education                  21.5                  7.65
1225      1982      Industrial Development   16.0                    9.32
1226      1982      Second Forestry            10.1                  7.10
1309      1983      Water Supply                6.5                  4.88
1394      1983      Fourth Highway             23.6                  8.31
1493      1984      Economic & Financial       11.7                  9.42
Management Improvement
L511      1985      Power Eng. and T.A.         7.5                  6.45
1618      1985      Irrigation Rehabilitation 9.3                    9.30
1660 d/   1986      Structural Adjustment    20.0                   20.00
A012 d/   1986       Structural Adjustment    40.0                  40.00
1668 d/   1986      Health                     27.8                 27.80
Total                         331.50               180.83
of which has been repaid   (3.75)
Total now outstanding
and held by IDA            327.75
Total undisbursed                                  180.83
a/   Prior to exchauge adjustments.
b/   Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
c/   Computed at the March 31, 1986, rate of US$1.13827=1 SDR.
d/   Not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF MARCH 31, 1986
Loan                                            Amount
Numxber    Year    Borrower         Purpose      of Loan a/    Equity a/   Total
(US$Million equivalent)
619-NIR   1982   Les Moulins        Flourmill      2.22          0.33        2.55
du Sahel S.A.
(MDS)
Total now held by IFC              2.16          0.24         2.40
Total undisbursed                  0.43            --         0.43
a/   Amount at time of approval.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I - Timetable of Key Events
1.        Identification:   The need for redirecting road investment in
Niger to limit new construction and assure adequate maintenance was identi-
fied in the course of an IDA mission in January 1985.
2.        Preparation:   The Gover.nment prepared project proposals which
were reviewed by a preparation mission in March 1985.
3.        Appraisal:  May 1985.  The project was reoriented to a sector
approach within the SAL framework.
4.        SAL Appraisal:   September 1985.  Agreement was reached on the
content and scope of the sector investment program, except for the
Zinder-Agadez Road.
5.        SAL Negotiations:  December 1985.  The main outstanding issue was
resolved.
6.        Pre-Negotiations:   February  1986.   The  detailed  expenditure
program was specified within the framework of the structural adjustment
program.
7.        Negotiations:  March 1986.
8.        Target Effectiveness:  December 1986.
SECTION II - Special Project Implementation Action
None.
SECTION III - Special Conditions
1.        Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)   The Government shall establish a Local Advance Account for
the Government share of investment costs for IDA/SAF-
financed components,  and  shall  deposit  CFAF 40 million
therein (para. 72); and



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)   The Government shall have adopted a revised schedule of
DMTP equipment rental rates applicable to fiscal year
1986/87 (para. 51).
2.        Condition of Disbursement:
Disbursement for expenditures for civil works for road
construction and maintenance under each annual program
would be conditioned on prior agreement on the detailed
expenditure and work program and the cost recovery target
for that year, and on the three-year forward plan for
investments and recurrent expenditures (para. 49).
3.        Other Conditions
(a)   The Government will select subprojects for the 1987/88 and
1987/89 transport sector expenditure program according to
agreed criteria (para. 48), will furnish to the Association
for review not later than March 31 of each year the expend-
iture program, physical work program, and cost recovery
target for the following fiscal year, and a three-year
forward plan for investments and recurrent expenditures
and will consult with the Association on sector policy,
cost recovery, planned expenditures and physical targets
and achievements (para. 49);
Cb)   For secondary and rural roads, the maximum investment will
be CFAF 12 billion over 4 years, and selected sub-projects
shall have a rate of return of not less than 10%
(para. 50);
(c)  Amounts allocated in the recurrent budget (excluding IDA/
SAF contributions) to cover the operating costs of routine
road maintenance shall be CFAF 1.53 billion in 1985/86,
CFAF 1.80 billion in 1986/87, CFAF 2.16 billion in 1987/88,
and CFAF 2.57 billion in 1988/89 (para. 51);
(d)  The scale of DMTP equipment rental rates shall be updated
annually to cover operating costs, maintenance and repair
costs, and depreciation on the basis of replacement value
(para. 51);
(e)  The Government will review with the Association the recom-
mendations arising from the Transport Study, and will con-
sult with the Association on follow-up actions required to
implement them (para. 52); and
(f)   The Government will implement an Action Plan to be agreed
by June 30, 1987, for cost recovery from road users, whose
target shall be 100% of annual maintenance needs by 1990;
annual cost recovery targets will be agreed each year
(para. 52).



ro "-,- I    fr
NIGER                                         ....
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC  198419085                  I
Vehicles per Day:                                                       J
Fo.      IW lal    w   D.I
Paved Roods (1 or 2 lanes)                   |
Enginrered Grovel Roads
Feeder Roads
- lmpr  Trcks                              |
~ RivwTs    k                                                                    In G.ADt
Airports
*    Department Capitols                                                         Na      ..ocr
\   -a-  International Boundaries                                Tchw obaocde Abro
<  M        A           L    I                                                     ,
A      A                                   tTAHrf                                                                       So--a
~~~~~~~i192jVCfQtJ                     ouls~~~~~~~ogon Kiy.                                               - oza-moyah. 
Balc yI , ---o#e,.                                                                  ,..a                    ZNE
~~~Ni M O/lo o<ff
-/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.K
l; F o n e W a   5 s l ! l k s b e s l   X  , { .t >Ba n a   I I ,                            C             (I;
< f ~~~~~/ M
-D U R K I N A                 Xy                w    \                 N    I   G    E    R    I    A
FASO                            'Ep
B E N 1r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      TI0



IBRD 19198
8                             D-~~~~~~a                                12                                     1A 
tde.t.z. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~2                                                                I'4 
AC,H I1
XlZorl,,<ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Beo,
Tokoya                                                                    L o    e
-_ 25ar.w1                                                         Godo-,Im
Z1.JI   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~  ~~AL',E RIA                                                                         I*
A--        LB Ya
MALI
#r          TenI"                                                                                                         MALI                 NIGER
re Ic-,w                                                                                                                                                        CHA
rOTKKo                                                     KKItOMETERS                                               N*_e-                                CHAD
0        50       100       150      20'      250                           we                         +
tv                           ~       ~      ~~       ~      ~~~~0 50  100   ISO              12-.    -                                 . 
AMIL E S         k w0                      1 2. f                N tG E R IA
p          aD   -*fttVs_ R,.                                                 Z e.,, - oT  WM   5W D I
~ Coud  *S _suu.  o3 111d _W do.    o. 0.WN.u _d S                           I iia  
Th. dVlo  &Ml 11-6 -W VW &D<W-  ~   M M- -W M 'A                                                       CENTRA
50      1     _ M  VW Vof  aR"",                                                 - a" w   F.    Covw    .v m      (  AFRICAI
M0*     s2MO *                                                              GV/f of '60&Ofinee AOKEROON                REP.
DECEMBER 19B5






