Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13773
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 1706-NIR/A-18-0-NIR)
DECEMBER 9, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahel Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currencv Unit: CFA Franc CFAF}
U.SSIO (1986)   3463()
USSI 0 (1987 = 300.54
USS1.0) 1988)   297.85
USSLO ( 1989)   3 319 01
U'SS10 ( 1990) = 272_26
USSI (0 1991,   282.11
USS1 ( 1992) = 264.69
FISCAL YEAR
October I - September 30 (until 1989)
January I - December 31 (from 1990 on)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFDB          Af'rican Development Bank
ABEDA         Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BOAD          WN'est African Bank for Development
BGR           Bureau de gesrion routiere
(Road Maintenance Unit)
BDRN          Banque de (eveloppenientl de ia Republique diu Niger
(Niger National Bank)
BSP           Bureau de suivi du projet
(Project Implementationi Unit)
CCCE          Caisse centrale de cooperation economnique
lnoon Caissefran(aise de cooperation -
French Economic Cooperation Agency)
C(FA          Cotnmunauwe financiere africainie
(African Financial Community)
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
CFTP          Centre de perfectionneient des travaitx publics
(Public Works Training Center)
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DMTP          Direction dcu materiel des travattr publics
(Department of Equipment)
DTP           Direction des tra va ux puiblics
(Departmnent of Public Works)
DTT           Direction des transports rerrestres
(Department of Land Transportation)
DRR           Division des routes rurales
(Rural Roads Division)
EDF           European Development Fund
FAD           Fonds afric ain de vk eloppement
(African Development Futid)
FSD           Fonids saoudien de developpemient
(Saudi Development Fund)
HDM           Highway Design Mlodel
IDB           Islantic Development Bank
IRR           Interntal Rate of Return
NIT           Ministry of Transport
NITPH         Ministere des Travaivt Publi 5 er de l Illabitt
(NIinistrN of Public Works and Housing)
OECF          Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
OPEC          Organi7ation of Petroleum I xporting Counitries
RM[J          Road Management Uinit
RRCP          Rural Roads Constructioti Prograim
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF           Special At'rican Facility
SAL           Structural Adjustment L-oan
SAP           Structural Adjustment Program
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SJF           Special Joint Financing
UNSO          UJnited Nations Sudatio-Salieliani Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                           December 9, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Niger
Transport Sector Project (Credit 1706-NIRIA-18-0-NIR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Niger - Transport Sector Project (Credit
1706-NIR/A-18-0-NIR) prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the
Borrower. The Borrower's views do not fully coincide with that of the Region. The SDR26 million
Credit was approved in May 1986, SDRO.2 million were cancelled, and the Credit was closed on June
30, 1993.
The Credit was to provide financial and technical assistance to the transport sector according to
priorities laid out in the Government's Structural Adjustment Program. The Transport Sector Project
(together with a Feeder Roads Project and the Fourth Highway Project, both assisted by the Bank
Group) was an element of a multi-donor cofinancing arrangement for a sectoral investment program
amounting to about US$212 million for the 1986-1989 period.
The Project aimed to finance civil works, to assist with institution-building and to pursue policy
objectives such as the introduction of cost recovery. Civil works were, by and large, satisfactorily
done but few of the institution-building, and none of the policy objectives were met. Appraisal used
unrealistic cost estimates and the Project Implementation Unit had no financial management capacity.
Starting in 1989, political problems gradually paralyzed the government, the Structural Adjustment
Program collapsed, and after 1990/91 Government lost all control on the budget. There was poor
coordination between Country Operations and Infrastructure Divisions at IDA Headquarters.
Coordination among donors was equally poor. In 1990, the main donors suspended disbursements
because of non-payment of earlier obligations by the Government. The project outcome is rated as
unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely, and its institutional impact as negligible.
The PCR is of acceptable quality. Lack of data precludes any attempt to estimate the project's
economic merit. The Project may be audited along with the Fourth Highway Project.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGER
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT 1706-NIR/A-18-0-NIR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ............. i
Evaluation Summary .............. ............................ ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE ........                     ..........  I
A.     Project Identity  .    ....................................  1
B.     Background ........................................  1
C.     Project Objectives and Description  .........................  2
D.    Project Design and Organization ...........................  3
E.     Project Implementation ..........         .......................  5
F. Project Results.                                                              6
G.  Project Sustainability.                                                      8
H. IDA Performance.                                                              9
I.  Borrower Performance .10
J.  Borrower/IDA Relationship .1
K. Consulting Services .11
L.  Project Documentation and Data .11
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE.13
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .............................. 20
Tables
1.     Related IDA Loans and Credits  ...........................  20
2.     Project Timetable ...........              ................. 21
3.     Credit Data ............................ 22
4.   Project Implementation ............................ 24
5.     Project Cost and Financing  ............................  25
6.     Status of Covenants ............             ................ 27
7.   Use of IDA Resources ............................. 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
NIGER
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT 1706-NIR/A-18-0-NIR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Transport Sector Project for which
Credit 1706/A018 NIR in the amount of SDR 26 million (US$30 million) was approved on May
27, 1986. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1993 as scheduled, with SDR 25.8 million
disbursed. The last disbursement of SDR 7130.28 was made on July 20, 1993. The amount of
SDR 60,955.79 was cancelled from Credit 1706-NIR and the amount of SDR 59,498.90 was
cancelled from Credit A-18-0-NIR, both on May 6, 1994.
2.     This Credit represented the seventh IDA operation in the transport sector in Niger and
the first sectoral one which is linked with an adjustment lending operation financed by IDA.
3.     The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Sahelian
Department, Africa Region, with the assistance of the Resident Mission in Niger, during a
completion mission which took place in December, 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and
the Borrower, statistical data and other data from IDA files and discussions with IDA staff and
the Borrower staff involved in the project implementation. Part II was received from the
Borrower on June 27, 1994.






ii
NIGER
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT 1706-NIWA-184W-NIR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.    Objectives
I.    The project objectives were to assist the Government in implementing its transport sector
strategy which was developed as part of its Structural Adjustment Program (SAP). This strategy
aims at the following objectives: (i) redirecting public expenditures to highest priority activities;
(ii) increasing cost recovery on road users; and (iii) consolidating the institutional building
initiated under seven previous IDA projects aimed at the sector.
B.    Implementation Experience
2.     The importance and role of the dialogue between IDA and the Borrower appeared clearly
in the implementation of the project. Changes that occurred in the political, social and economic
context in Niger made it very difficult to reach the sectoral and macro policy targets. Until
1988/89, the Government was committed to the adjustment program of reforms and the dialogue
was frank and focused, but the frequent personnel changes which occurred at both the ministerial
and managerial levels resulted in a progressive decrease in the pace of implementation. After
1989, political unrest and the deterioration of the managerial capacity at the Ministry of Public
Works and Housing (MTPH) slowed the execution of the sectoral strategy developed in the
framework of the SAP. The Ministry of Transport (MT) was also negatively affected by the
crisis. Finally, IDA's and some other donors' suspension of disbursements had a negative impact
on implementation.
3.     Project implementation was also affected by the insufficient institutional capacity of the
Project Implementation Unit (BSP) which functioned throughout project execution without an
adequate accounting system despite several IDA reminders. As a result, audit reports were not
only very late, but also strongly qualified. Another major flaw which affected implementation
was the poor capacity and practice for procurement of works and services.
C.    Results
4.     The results of the project were mixed. While most of the program of works was carried
out satisfactorily, only part of the institution building objectives were met, and for a limited
period; the policy objectives were not met. The project was finally closed on June 30, 1993 as
initially scheduled, although some important covenants, in particular policy covenants, were not
fully complied with. The amount of SDR 60,955.79 was cancelled from Credit 1706-NIR and
the amount of SDR 59,498.90 was cancelled from Credit A-18-0-NIR, both on May 6, 1994.
(a)    Program of works. The physical program of the project was achieved quite
satisfactorily for periodic and routine maintenance. However, the project
objectives and the targets related to the rural roads construction program were



iii
not achieved, and the implementation strategy set up for the rural roads
construction also failed. Only 55 % of the physical targets were achieved and the
cost per km was about twice as expensive as planned. Overall, since road
transportation remains the main mode of travel through the country, financing the
maintenance of the road network had a positive impact on the road users' vehicle
operating costs.
(b)    Institutional Building. The project sensitized Government to the need for stricter
prioritization of road projects based on their economic justification; it also made
a useful contribution to the modernization of the public administration in the
Ministry of Equipment and the Ministry of Transport, enhancing programming
and budgeting capabilities and management of the vehicle fleet; and
(c)    Policy Objectives. Road policy objectives could not be achieved because of the
spectacular deterioration of the macroeconomic framework. Since 1990, budget
programming and implementation has been loose in Niger because of social and
political troubles. Most of the positive results achieved through the project
remained very difficult to consolidate because of the increasing financial and
economic crisis in Niger.
5.     The overall investment program was only partly achieved because of: (i) the BSP's weak
accounting capacity; (ii) a lack of coordination and understanding of OECF disbursement
procedures; and (iii) the suspension of disbursements of several donors involved in the financing
transport sector project.
6.     Weakness was also identified in IDA's own coordination, between the Country Operations
and Infrastructure Divisions for the monitoring of the macro policy and the sectoral strategy set
up in the framework of the Sector Adjustment Project (SAP).
7.     The non availability of recent updated data and economic evaluation on the sector was
one of the main consequences of the recurrent budget constraints. This lack of data did not allow
for reevaluating the internal rate of return (IRR) of the road rehabilitation and maintenance works
carried out under the project.
8.     After 1990, actual traffic on the roads has likely been lower than anticipated due to the
collapse of the economy, but a covery seems to be under way. Also, some of the costs related
to civil works and supervision were much higher than forecast (see project costs in table 5),
despite the fact that some important programs (rural roads, Zinder Agadez, and the program
funded by Arab donors and AFDB) were not included in these costs. These overruns may be
explained by: a) unrealistic estimates at the time of appraisal; b) important implementation
delays; and c) poor coordination among donors. Consequently, the IRRs, initially in the range
of 25-40%, may have been lower than expected but still well above the 12% threshold.
D.    Sustainability
9.    Implementation of a road network management policy based on sound economics was
only partial, and some of the progress achieved during the early years of the project was lost after
1989, due to the political crisis.  The status of the road network, which has been poorly
maintained over the past four years, is worse now than it was in 1987. The capacity of the two
ministries MTPH and MT has also been severely weakened by the political crisis.



iv
E.     Findings and Lessons
10.    The main lessons and findings can be summarized in the following points:
(a)    a thorough dialogue between the Borrower, IDA and other main road donors
should build a strong consensus on objectives for any new project in the sector;
(b)    a coordinated sectoral approach could be adopted in future road projects,
provided sufficient technical assistance is given to strengthen road management
capabilities in the early years of project implementation, given the need to rebuild
the institutions weakened by several years of national economic disarray; more
than ever before, project objectives should be strictly limited to road maintenance
and rehabilitation;
(c)    a road network maintenance policy based on economic criteria should be pursued
and road management tools should be reactivated;
(d)    rural road works should be contracted out to private firms, and the force account
brigade should be dismantled;
(e)    good internal coordination as well as among donors would condition the project's
success, and the participation of other donors in a project launch workshop would
be highly beneficial;
(f)    in future projects, resident mission staff should be involved to a larger extent
than in the past (follow up of institutional aspects, disbursements and
procurement); and
(g)    no technical assistance program should start unless capable counterpart staff are
in place.






NIGER
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT 1706-NIR/A-18-0-NIR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Name                 Transport Sector Project
Credit Number         1706-NIR/A-18-0-NIR
RVP Unit             AFRICA Region
Country              Niger
Sector               Transportation
B.    Background
1.    Niger is a large and landlocked country (1.27 million km2) in sub-Saharan Africa, with
a fast growing population (3.4% per year). The population is estimated at about six million.
Nearly 90% of the population lives in the southern part of the country where rainfall is normally
sufficient to support agriculture. Its closest access to the sea is 600 km from the southern border.
Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world with a capita GNP estimated at US$190 in
1984. Niger's social indicators are among the lowest in the world. The primary school enrollment
rate was about 25% in 1984 and the adult literacy rate was only 14% (8% for women).
2.    The economy of Niger has traditionally been dominated by subsistence agriculture taking
up 80 % of the cultivated areas. Livestock also provides an important source of income and export
revenues. The discovery of large uranium deposits in the late 1960s and their development
propelled the mining sector into an important position in Niger's economy and this sector was
the country's principal foreign exchange earner and an important source of Government revenues.
As a result, Niger went through a period of rapid growth and modernization, and the public
sector took a dominant position in the modern economy. The uranium boom ended in the early
1980s, when prices dropped and Niger's production decreased. Consequently, the share of the
modern sector including the mining sector in the economy declined significantly.
3.    When the uranium boom came to an end, a number of serious deficiencies in the structure
of the economy became evident. First, during the period of the uranium boom, the Government
used public expenditure programs as the primary instrument for allocating financial resources in
the economy and for generating economic growth. Public investment focused on infrastructure
and building projects, recurrent expenditures favored personnel and transferred payments instead
of operation and maintenance to the detriment of existing infrastructure and basic public services.
Second, although uranium revenues started to decline in 1981, the Government continued to
implement an ambitious development plan by relying increasingly on external borrowing,
accumulating a heavy foreign debt which rose to US$915 million at the end of 1984. A
substantial share of this amount was committed based on commercial lending terms. Third, during



2
the late 1970s, public enterprises proliferated into uneconomic activities and acquired privileges
that discouraged private sector development. Many of them incurred substantial operating losses
and became a drain on the Government's budget and the financial sector. Finally, the rural
development strategy which the Government pursued over the last ten years to achieve food self-
sufficiency was implemented through expensive large scale projects.
4.     The Government began addressing some of these problems in the 1982/83 budget year,
by taking austerity measures. A stabilization program was initiated and supported by three IMF
standby arrangements. The Government complemented its stabilization program with an
adjustment program aimed at overcoming the structural problems in the economy. The adjustment
program focussed on increasing the efficiency of existing investments, improving policies for
more efficient future investments, and reorienting policies for strengthening the country's human
and physical resources. In this context, investments in the transport sector were expected to
represent a smaller share of the total public investment program in the future. IDA supported this
program by launching a structural adjustment credit in February 1986.
5.     Adequate transportation is a critical factor for Niger's economic and social development.
Niger's transport infrastructure consists of about 18,500 km of roads and tracks, five domestic
airports and the Niger river. Road is the most important mode of transport; it has absorbed a
significant share of public investment and accounts for 99% of planned Government expenditures
in the transport sector during the 1986/88 period.
6.     Through an extensive program of transport investment which had been supported by IDA
through a series of credits, the Government had substantially fulfilled its initial sectoral
objectives. It created a road network that linked the country's main centers of production and
consumption, and set up a road management and maintenance system. As part of its financial
stabilization program and under the SAP, the Government revised its sectoral objectives: (i) to
complete ongoing operations; (ii) to give priority to the preservation of the existing network over
new construction; and (iii) to integrate isolated areas into the economy. The public expenditures
program in the transport sector was therefore giving priority to: i) routine and periodic
maintenance of the existing road network; ii) repair or rehabilitation of critical sections and
structures on primary and secondary roads serving populated areas; and iii) construction of
feeder roads in connection with well defined agricultural projects. This program included
recurrent expenditures on road maintenance amounting to CFAF 5.5 billion over the 1985/86 -
1987/1988 period.
7.    IDA had previously financed seven projects in the transportation sector in Niger: four
highway projects, one road maintenance project, one feeder road project, and one project for
airport improvement (see Part III, table 1). IDA's successful experience with institutional building
for the transport sector in Niger had been prominently featured in Institutional Development in
Africa: A Review of World IDA experience (OED Report N° 5085, May 17, 1985).
C.    Project Objectives and Description
8.     Project Objectives. The structural adjustment framework for sector investment planning,
combined with DTP's good record in implementing previous IDA projects, provided a sound
basis and framework for this transport sector project. The objective of this project was to assist
the Government in implementing a sector strategy aiming at: (a) redirecting public expenditures
for roads to the highest priority activities, mainly road routine and periodic maintenance
operations; (b) increasing user cost recovery to a level commensurate with increased road



3
maintenance needs; and (c) consolidating the institution building initiated under previous IDA
projects.
9.     Project Description. To achieve these objectives, the project was designed to finance:
(a)    policy initiatives including:
(i)      adoption of a detailed four-year expenditure program  for the
sector, including both investment and recurrent costs;
(ii)      adoption of economic selection criteria for new sub-projects to
be implemented through this program;
(iii)     preparation, discussion, implementation, and evaluation of works
programs on a yearly basis;
(iv)      annual updating of equipment rental rates; and
(v)       an action plan to improve cost recovery;
(b)    priority road works programs consisting of:
(vi)      annual resurfacing and strengthening of paved roads;
(vii)      annual regravelling of unpaved roads;
(viii)     rural and secondary road construction;
(ix)      construction of high priority roads and bridges;
(x)       routine maintenance activities on the whole network; and
(xi)      consultant services for the preparation of pre-investment studies,
detailed engineering, and supervision of items (i), (iii), and (iv)
above;
(c)    purchase of road maintenance and workshop equipment; workshop rehabilitation;
and
(d)    institutional development, including technical assistance, support for operating
costs, and studies.
D.    Project Design and Organization
10.    Dialogue and Project Design. This transport sector project was the first sectoral project
IDA financed in Niger. Its content and scope was conceived and prepared both by Governmnent
and IDA. The Government and IDA had also concurred that the project would be a sectoral
project in line with the framework of the SAP. The Government included a first outline of the
project through its financial stabilization program in late 1984. The Government's proposal was



4
essentially an investment project for the road sector. The need to redirect road investment to
limit new construction and assure adequate maintenance was pointed out during an IDA mission
in January 1985. In that context, the Government's project proposals were reviewed by an IDA
preparation mission in March 1985. During project appraisal in May 1985, the project was
reoriented to a sectoral approach within the SAL framework. Agreement was reached on the
content and the scope of the sector investment program, except for the Zinder - Agadez road
during the SAL appraisal mission in December 1985. The Zinder - Agadez issue was resolved
during the SAL negotiations. The detailed expenditure program for the transport sector was
drawn up during the pre-negotiations of the transport sector credit in February 1986. The
negotiations of the credit took place in April 1986 and the credit agreement became effective in
October 1986.
11.   Project Cofinancing and Donors Coordination. The transport sector project together with
the ongoing feeder roads and fourth highway projects was part of a seven-donor cofinancing
arrangement for the sectoral investment program which amounted to about US$212 million for
the period 1986/1988.  IDA and the Government defined the sectoral policy and strategy
framework and the content of the investment program for the road sector and cofinancing. The
four year road investment program and the project costs are in Table 5. The donors involved
in the investment program financing include: FAD, FSD, ABEDA, OPEP, IDB (26%); EDF
(25%); OECF (12%); CIDA (9%); UNSO/ITALY/NORWAY (5.6%); AFDB (5%); CCCE
(4%).
12.   Except for the Special African Facility (SAF) (Japanese grant), there was no clear
definition of donor coordination in the project documents. First, the coordination process among
donors was not specified and the only documentation available in the project files relates to the
Transport Round Table held in Niamey in 1988.
13.   Also, coordination within IDA itself was loose, in particular for the monitoring of
sectoral policy and strategy and the annual review of the Government's expenditures program,
between Country Operations (responsible for macro economic dialogue) and the Infrastructure
Division directly involved in the project.
14.   Project Implementation. More attention should have been paid to project implementation
and management set-up during project appraisal. The organization of the BSP was weak and
inefficient:
(a)    only two persons (the Director of DTP and a support staff appointed for
disbursement matters) were responsible for the overall project management; no
equipment (computers) was purchased for the implementation unit.
(b)   the BSP did not have an accounting system at the start of the project; and
(c)    since the project was a sectoral one, the BSP was responsible for the coordination
of the overall transport sector financing, but had a limited relationship with MT.
15.   This situation was never corrected and the accounting and financial management of the
project was not reinforced during project execution, although IDA asked the Borrower several
times to do it through the aide-memoires left by supervision missions in November 1986, October
1987 and December 1988.



5
16.   Project Mid Term Review. No mid-term review was included in the project design. This
is unfortunate because such a review might have been helpful effectively in addressing the
insufficiencies that occurred in a timely manner:  reluctant and delayed compliance with
covenants related to the sectoral policies, poorly organized financial and administrative
management, excessive costs of road works carried out by force account by the Rural Roads
Division (DRR).
E.    Project Implementation
17.    Credit effectiveness and project start-up. Twenty-two months were spent between the
first IDA identification mission in January 1985 and credit effectiveness in October 1986. This
quite good performance in Niger was essentially due to speedy preparation which took place at
a time when the Government was adopting a program of economic reforms.
18.    However, this performance was short lived. The political, economic, and social crisis
which arose in 1987, and the mounting political unrest which followed had a negative impact on
the overall performance of the public administration in general, and on the managerial capability
of the MTPH in particular, and slowed down the execution of the project.
19.   Disbursements. Disbursement rates were unsatisfactory. Disbursements were constantly
slow due to delays in establishing and transmitting applications to IDA. The right to use SOEs
(implying disbursement for contracts of less than US$300,000) was suspended from September
1990 to February 1991 due to Niger's non-compliance with audit covenants. Since SOE's were
the main instrument of disbursement for force account works, the physical progress of such
components as construction of rural roads and periodic maintenance of earth roads was on hold
for nearly six months. Despite a request from the Government, and due to this lack of activity
of the project during last two years and to the running out of funding due to the non
reimbursement by OECF of expenses prefinanced by IDA, the Association did not agree to
postpone the closing date. Consequently, the transport sector project was closed on June 30,
1993 as scheduled.
20.   As of the closing date of the credit, CFAF 97.2 million still remained blocked in the
project special account in the former BDRN (Niger Development IDA liquidated in 1990) and
US$1.5 million remained unpaid by OECF to IDA. This amount, which was also eligible for
IDA financing was finally financed by IDA. The amount of SDR 60,955.79 was cancelled from
Credit 1706-NIR and the amount of SDR 59,498.90 was cancelled from Credit A-18-0-NIR, both
on May 6, 1994.
21.   The disbursement schedule got off track because of some specific project implementation
problems:
(a)   the weak financial management capacity within the BSP (despite several
reminders by IDA supervision missions to the Government to recruit accounting
staff at the BSP and the lack of coordination and organization between the
Government agencies involved in the project resulted in the non payment of
several suppliers and contractors bills (about CFAF 178 million) by the project
after the closing date of the credit (the funds being unduly kept by the BDRN).
DTP never related the bills to IDA; and



6
(b)    the lack of coordination and understanding of OECF loan disbursement
procedures between IDA, the Government and OECF. As a result, since 1990,
the IDA credit began running out of funds, the consequence of IDA's
prefinancing in 1987 of project expenses (about US$ 5.0 million) agreed to be
financed under OECF funds after the OECF loan became effective in 1988. Since
then, despite several reminders and agreements reached between IDA and OECF,
only two thirds of the refinancing have been repaid by OECF. Consequently, the
project activities that were planned to be financed under IDA financing were
substantially reduced.
22.    Suspension of disbursements by Donors. In 1990, the main donors (AFDB, ABEDA,
OPEC Funds, BOAD, Saudi Funds, IDB, Kuwaiti Development Fund) suspended their
disbursements because of non-payment of several credit terms by the Government. From 1990
to a recent date, the Government has not been in a position to pay its arrears. However, recent
negotiations have allowed rescheduling or cancelling of part of these arrears. The DTP is
currently updating the work program to be financed by the Donors. This situation had partly
compromised the execution of the roads investment program, in particular the completion of the
Zinder - Agadez road and the construction of the following roads program: Dosso - Sabongari,
Maradi - Nigeria, and Gotheye - Mehana.
23.   Audits. As mentioned above, one of the major insufficiencies in project implementation
was the absence of an accounting system throughout project execution. The role of the BSP was
essentially focused on the treatment of disbursement applications. Audit delivery was very late
(nine months average after the deadline) and most of the audit reports were strongly qualified'.
As a result, the Borrower's right to use the SOE through IDA credit was suspended in September
1989 for about six months.
F.    Project Results
24.    Achievement of Project Objectives. Achievement of the project's three main objectives
was uneven:
(a)    the road investment programn was achieved to a large extent;
(b)    the institutional building objective was reached to a certain extent and
temporarily; and
(c)    the third objective, an enhanced cost recovery of road users could not be met.
However, the project had a positive impact on the development of the country.
25.   Investment programming. The roads investment program was achieved in compliance
with the economic criteria for roads selection set up for investment in transport sector. Control
and budgetary disciplinary measures were also set up in the public expenditures program. The
National Plan for Transport Study carried out under the SAP was a very helpful instrument in
that context.
non compliance with international accounting practices, confusion between the project's
account and other projects' accounts, lack of supporting documents for part of expenses made
under the project's special account.



7
26.    Road Works. The program of works was achieved to a large extent. Paved road periodic
and routine maintenance programs were carried out quite satisfactorily. These works were
contracted out to large and medium-sized foreign and domestic contractors, and the related
consulting services (design and work supervision) were also contracted out to experienced firms.
However, the results are not as good with regards to works carried out by force account. The
objectives of the Rural Roads Construction Program (RRCP) were only partly achieved. Less
than 55% of the physical targets (917 km) was achieved because of: (i) the late start-up of the
program and long delays in the procurement of equipment; (ii) the very weak management of
both the labor-intensive and the mechanized brigades by the rural road division. Furthermore,
there was no transparency in the financial management of the labor-intensive activities. As a
result, the actual costs for rural roads construction (CFAF 5.9 million/km for mechanized
brigades and CFAF 8.1 million/km for labor-based brigade) were also much higher than planned
in the project (about CFAF 4.6 million/km), compromising the economic rationale of the rural
roads program.
27.   Institutional Capacity Building. There was a limited improvement in the managerial
capacity of the relevant parties involved in the road sector management.  For instance, the
development of staff skills in the main departments in the ministries concerned (the BGR, the
DTP, the DMTP, the Training Center of Public Works (CFTP) and the Land Transportation
Department (DTT), improved substantially their technical capacity to use computer equipment
and software, such as the Highway Design Management (HDM) software. Driver's licenses and
transport licenses are delivered within days instead of months. Unfortunately, no similar effort
was made to enhance the project financial and administrative management. Also, high staff
turnover, and persistent government failure to pay civil servant wages had a negative impact.
28.    Due to the financial situation mentioned above, the BGR which was expected to play a
central role in the road sector policy is operating at a slow pace because of important recurrent
budget constraints. Instead of a permanent updating of the road data base, a limited survey (etude
des troncons routiers) was carried out in 1990 under UNDP funds and another study was carried
out in 1992.
29.    Cost Recoverv. The budget allocations for the transport sector which were agreed upon
under the SAP for the transport sector were not fully complied with at the beginning, and are
now off track. Since 1989/90, there has not been any budgetary policy, due to the overall
political, social, financial, and economic crisis. The situation of the budgetary allocations is
clearly explained in the following quotation expressed in the OED performance Audit Report of
July 30, 1993 related to the SAL I and the PESAP in Niger:
"approved budgets" fully complied with the objectives and requirements of the program, but actual
outcomes bore no resemblance to intentions."
Covenants calling for improved road cost recovery were not adhered to in early years of project
implementation, as the Government was reluctant to increase fuel and other road user charges
given the competitive advantage enjoyed by transporters based in neighboring countries, such as
Benin and, most especially Nigeria. The Government also found that the conclusions of the
National Transport Study on road user charges, covering the late 1980s, did not point to drastic
imbalances in road costs recovery then, nor did it call for urgent action. IDA did not press the
matter except during the second half of project execution when it became apparent that serious
distortions had developed. The commission appointed by Government made recommendations
for minor changes which were incorporated in the 1990 budget. In hindsight, it appears that the



8
efforts developed by IDA to straighten out road user charges were futile given the intense
smuggling of oil from Nigeria and the widespread tax evasion prevalent in Niger, all
macroeconomic issues that sector management could not address in any effective way. The
project objectives regarding road user charges were totally unrealistic.
30.    Project impact.  This project had positive impacts on both investment management
practices and on transport costs. Transport by road is the only link between the regions of this
vast country. A limited assessment of paved road traffic by the DTP shows that the traffic has
increased in some sections concerned by the project and that the IRRs of the operations may have
been close to or even better than anticipated on these sections. Road maintenance works financed
under the project have reduced vehicle maintenance costs. This positive impact was not used,
during the project implementation period, by the Government to justify a higher cost recovery
on road users. The spending of large amounts in the road construction sector also had a broad
economic impact on the road construction industry and on the economy at large.
31.    The execution of the project had also the following positive impacts:
(a)    enhanced investment programming in the road sector;
(b)    road network maintenance during a critical period;
(c)    training of technical staff in the two concerned ministries; and
(d)    development of domestic firms (consultants and contractors) involved in road
construction activities (design, drainage and bridges, regravelling and pavement
resealing).
G.    Project Sustainabiity
32.    The sectoral design of this project as well as its links with an SAP made it very different
from previous IDA investment projects in the sector and from the Government's initial proposal.
It introduced macro-economic management of the resources allocated to the sector. But the weak
performance and poor results of the implementation of the reforms proposed under the SAP had
a debilitating impact on the road investment program. It might have been more effective to
design and include all the reforms proposed for the sector in the framework of this project instead
of inserting them in the more general and less effective SAP, or at least to better coordinate the
implementation of the project with that of the SAP.
33.    For instance the weak design of the following two majors reforms contributed to their
failure:
(a)    increase of the tax on combustibles. This measure was intended to enhance cost
recovery on road users. But the project design did not take into account that
most of the oil supply was actually provided by an unofficial network importing
illegally from Nigeria. The Government did not have the time, resources, or the
urge to close this network and build an effective legal supply network. Increased
taxes only gave more incentives for fraud.



9
(b)    increase in equipment rental rates. On the one hand, other potential suppliers of
rented equipment (in Niger and in neighboring countries) were using more
competitive rates than the rates under which the MTPH's machinery was rented
to contractors, and on the other hand, the Treasury kept the depreciation part of
the renting fees which prevented DMTP from replacing old equipment.
34.    However, the implementation, even partial and temporary, of rational investment
programming in the sector had both an immediate positive impact on the allocation of resources
and therefore a good demonstration for future operations. It developed tools and skills which
may be used again in the future.
H.    IDA's Performance
35.   Through the transport sector project, IDA made a very positive contribution to improving
public resources allocation policies in the Government's recurrent budget and investment
programming. IDA's support of this project provided a framework to attract other donors to
finance the four-year road investment program of about US$212 million.
36.    Strong project preparation and appraisal both by IDA staff and the Borrower facilitated
the negotiations of the seventh credit for road sector support. Most of the risks appraised by IDA
staff unfortunately materialized during the project execution. Eight IDA supervision missions
visited Niger from November 1986 to July 1990 at regular intervals of six months. The main
issues related to the project were correctly appraised and raised by these IDA supervision
missions when, up to 1989, the dialogue between IDA missions and Government was quite good.
But a big change and deterioration appeared as of 1990 when the overall political, financial and
economic crisis in Niger made it difficult to pursue any dialogue on macro economic and sectoral
policies. As a consequence, this situation affected the preparation of a proposed second transport
sector project which was expected to pursue the objectives set up in the ongoing sectoral project
and no mission was fielded after the suspension was lifted because it appeared that the road
administration, like other administrations in Niger, was too involved in the lengthy preparation
of political debates to allow for any mission to do useful work. The last supervision mission was
carried out in July 1990 after the suspension of the right to use SOEs in February 1991.
37.    A major weakness of IDA appeared in the coordination for the monitoring of the macro
and sectoral policies. The Infrastructure Division was not sufficiently involved in the monitoring:
for instance, the 1989 budgetary allocation for road maintenance was reduced, with IDA's
agreement, without being discussed with the Infrastructure Division. The technical support
pledged from outside the managing division did not always materialize in time and to the extent
needed, which had a negative impact on the quality of supervision.
38.    Another weakness was the weak coordination with other donors, in particular with
regards to the exchange of information and data. The cumbersome and ineffective relationship
with OECF has already been signalled in para 21(b).
39.    The major lessons learned by IDA could be summarized as follows:
(a)    a coordinated sectoral approach should be considered again for future IDA
financing in the transport sector;



10
(b)    transport sector credit disbursements should be conditioned to achieve adjustment
reforms and covenants related to the sector; an accurate assessment of local
realities may result from involving the resident mission in the project design;
(c)    coordination should be set up between the Borrower, IDA, and the donor
community, and be based on a clear understanding of each donor's objectives and
financing procedures; and
(d)    the institutional aspects relating to project implementation should be taken care
of by involving the resident mission in project design and supervision.
1.     Borrower Performance
40.    The performance of Nigerien staff involved in the project was uneven. On the one hand
road technicians involved in project preparation were competent and well aware of the critical
road sector priorities.  The studies, the technical assistance and consultants program  were
achieved as planned in a quite satisfactory manner. On the other hand, procurement was poorly
implemented (very cumbersome procedures, documents out of compliance with the Bank's
Sample Bidding Documents), and the project financial management drew severe criticism from
the auditors. Finally, the costs of works carried out by force account were excessive.
41.    The frequent Government reshuffles since 1989, plus the frequent changes in the technical
staff appointments and/or reassignments affected the quality of the dialogue between IDA and the
Government and project implementation. As a result, compliance with most of the covenants,
in particular the financial and budgetary covenants, was not satisfactory starting 1990. The
Government actually lost all budgetary control after 1990/91.
42.    An enhancement of administrative and financial skills as well as close coordination
between departments involved in the project would have helped project implementation. Short
term technical assistance should have been used for that purpose. In general, there was great
reluctance locally to use consultants which came partly from their belief that the road
administration had developed to a point where it did not need any more technical assistance, and
partly from a deep rooted and usual perception that IDA was always pushing to hire consultants
beyond actual needs.
43.    The main lessons that can be learned by the Borrower from  this project may be
summarized as follows:
(a)    the results achieved through the project should be consolidated and the macro
policies and strategies should be pursued;
(b)    an efficient approach should be set up for designing and managing rural roads;
(c)    programming tools such as the Road Management Unit should be developed and
expended;
(d)    adequate administrative management tools and procedures should be established,
and coordination among beneficiary services should be enhanced; and



11
(e)     no technical assistance program should start unless capable counterpart staff are
in place.
J.      Borrower/IDA Relationship
44.    The relationship between IDA and the Borrower was good during project preparation and
appraisal.  During negotiations, discussions were difficult on the investments program, in
particular regarding the construction of the Zinder-Agadez road. Since 1990, the relationship
deteriorated because of the social, political and financial crisis.
45.    Niger had failed to comply with audit covenants for the fiscal year 1989. As a result,
the right of SOEs use was suspended from September 1990 to February 1991.
46.    Working relations between OECF and IDA were not very effective in trying to correct
the mismanagement of IDA special account in paying of contracts intended to be financed by
OECF. The joint mission was successful in defining proper remedies, but follow-up action by
Governrment came late and was ineffective, which, together with the temporary suspension of the
OECF loan, did not permit the agreed remedies to come to full fruition.
K.     Consulting Services
47.    The consultants recruited for civil works bidding documents, control and supervision as
well as the consultants recruited for studies, training and capacity building improvement generally
performed well, despite some cumbersome Nigerien Administration procurement problems. The
consultants component was implemented in acceptable conditions due to the satisfactory
performance of the consultants as well as the good relation that they generally maintained during
project implementation2. Most of these consultants were foreign firms3.
L.     Project Documentation and Data
48      The Staff Appraisal Report, the Memorandum  of the President and the Development
Credit Agreement served as basic documents for project implementation by the project
implementation unit and by IDA supervision missions. Most of the data and documentation
needed for the preparation of the PCR were readily available, excepted for the documentation
related to the macro policy and the budget aspects of the project. The severe economic and
political crisis at the end of the project did not allow the collection of appropriate
documentation/information, and did not permit an adequate economic evaluation of the project
impact.
49.    For a future project in the transport sector project, it would be appropriate to set up an
effective filing system within the ministries concerned, in particular the MTPH. This would
2   Two minor and temporary problems occurred. There was a minor problem with the computerization of the
Ministry of Trade and Transport. The Government questioned the software and requested an additional staff
training. The issue was solved quickly. Another problem related to the selection/classification of consultants
for the DMTP department. The Government's and IDA's procurement analysts had initially different analyses
of the proposals received. After some discussion, the Government agreed with IDA's analysis.
Transfer of knowledge/technology was only partly achieved due to the failure of the Borrower to appoint
timely counterparts.



12
allow for better management of the documentation and data related to contracts and studies. It
would also be necessary to reactivate the management tools of the road network.



13
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU
PROJET SECTORIEL DE TRANSPORT
CREDITS 1706/A018 NIR
PARTIE II REDIGEE PAR LA PARTEE NIGERIENNE
INTRODUCTION
Pour la redaction de cette deuxieme partie le Ministre de l'Equipement de
l'Habitat et de l'Am6nagement du Territoire a fait appel A la contribution des autres ministeres
ayant une responsabilit6 imnportante dans l'execution du projet secteur des transports. It s'agit
principalement du Ministre du Commerce, des Transports et du Tourisme et le Ministre des
Finances et du Plan.
Le plan de cette deuxieme partie a suivi le canevas recommande par la Banque
Mondiale. Ainsi dans ce qui suivra on a:
I      Conception et organisation du projet
II     Execution du projet
III    Resultats du projet
IV     Viabilite du projet
V      Performance de I'Administration
VI    Performance de la Banque
VII    Rapport Emprunteur/Banque
VIII   R6le des cofinanciers



14
I    CONCEPTION ET ORGANISATION DU PROJET
A ce niveau, il faut noter qu'il s'agit d'un projet sectoriel qui comporte trois
composantes: les infrastructures, 1'exploitation et le materiel. Toutes les actions prevues par le
projet s'inscrivent dans le cadre des activites courantes des differentes structures chargees de les
mettre en oeuvre. La DTP est chargee de la composante routes et ponts tant du point de vue
construction que du point de vue entretien; la DTT est chargee de 1'exploitation; la DMTP gere
le materiel des T.P. et la DFI/D (MF/P) est responsable de la liquidation des depenses sur le
Fonds OECF et de la transmission des demandes de paiement a la Banque Mondiale.
Chacun de ces acteurs ci-dessus cites se trouve dans ses attributions dans le
projet. Cependant l'organisation du projet n'a pas ete formalisee d'une maniere administrative.
Certes le B.S.P. a ete mis en place, mais on s'est rendu compte tres vite de la limite de ses
attributions.
Par ailleurs la coordination du projet aurait ete plus efficiente s'il avait ete defini
un cadre de concertation entre tous les concernes et si le coordinateur est implique dans toutes
les rencontres lors des missions de supervision.
ii   EXECUTION DU PROJET
L'execution du projet s'est faite dans le respect des attributions des directions
techniques. L'avantage est que chaque composante dispose d'un responsable techniquement
competent.
Le bilan de 1'execution du projet devra se faire du point de vue des realisations
physiques et suivant I'aspect financier.
A -    REALISATIONS PHYSIQUES
1)     Volet infrastructures
Les realisations dans ce domaine ont atteint un niveau satisfaisant. Elles ont ete
neanmnoins ralenties par les suspensions des decaissements au niveau des bailleurs de Fonds. C'est
pour cette raison que les projets ci-apres n'ont pas pu etre executes:
-      Route Zinder-Agadez, Lot 2C finance par la BID, le FSD, la BADEA et le
Fonds de l'OPEP;
-      Route Zinder-Agadez Lot 3B finance par la BAD
-      Route Gotheye-Mehana financee par la BOAD;
-      Route Maradi-Frontiere Nigeria financee par la BAD
-      Route Dosso-Sabongari financec par la BAD;
-      Route Tchadaoua-Takieta financec par le FKDEA.



15
Au total environ 500 km sont concernes par les sanctions qui ont frappe les
differents prets representant un investissement de plus de 15 milliards de F/CFA estimes avant
la devaluation.
Les objectifs du programme de construction de routes rurales n'ont pas et
atteints. Les realisations n'ont et que de 55 % ; mais les raisons sont diverses:
Demarrage tardif du programme avec du materiel plus ou moins amortis. Le
nouveau materiel n'a et acquis qu'en 1990.
Sur ordre de la Banque Mondiale, les travaux en regie ont et arretes depuis
1991 devant la rarete des ressources car les fonds avances A l'OECF n'ont pu
etre recuperes.
A c6te de ces raisons, le systeme de gestion des routes rurales n'a pas 6te efficace
A certains moments. Les couts du kilometre ont connu des niveaux assez eleves ; il se trouve que,
lors de 1'evaluation du programme, les couts previsionnels ont ete calcules sur la base de cout
moyen au kilometre sans tenir compte des specificites de chaque region.
Un comite de reflexion a travaille sur I'amelioration de la gestion du Projet
Routes Rurales et les recommandations sont disponibles.
Le rechargement des routes en terre s'est bien deroule dans l'ensemble. Les
r6alisations aussi bien A 1'entreprise qu'en regie ont donne de bons resultats. Les travaux ont et
suspendus par la Banque pour les raisons dejA citees liees a une insuffisance de credits.
Depuis 1989, les problemes financiers ont commence A se faire sentir, ces
problemes se sont accentues jusqu'en 1993. L'entretien courant des routes finance A 100% par
le budget national en a ete serieusement affecte. Malgre la volonte affirmee des autorites
exprimee A travers d'importants credits votes chaque annee, les credits sont mis en place tres
tardivement entre le 5Sme et le 7eme mois de gestion et les ressources ne sont mobilisees que
pour une part depassant a peine les 50 %. Les consequences au niveau des routes ont et malgre
tout limit6es par le fait d'avoir du materiel et du personnel permanent.
2)     Volet Materiel
Toutes les acquisitions ont ete realisees a 100 %.
L'assistance technique A la DMTP s'etait bien passee.
La DMTP a subi durement les consequences de la rarete des ressources de l'Etat.
Les fonds de reserves et de renouvellement sont restes bloques au tresor national ce qui n'a pas
permis de renouveler certains vehicules.
Dans ces circonstances, un comite de reflexion a ete mis en place pour faire un
examen critique de la situation et proposer un systeme de gestion de maniere A eviter les erreurs
relevees.
Les autorites devront se prononcer sur les conclusions du comite.



16
3)     Volet Exploitation
II s'agit essentiellement de l'assistance technique et un appui technique apporte
a la D.T.T.
B -    ASPECT FINANCIER
Du point de vue financier, on a vu que la periode d'execution du projet a et
caracterisee par de nombreuses suspensions de decaissement. Le financement des travaux en regie
a ete arrete depuis 1991.
L'avance IDA non remboursee par l'OECF dans sa totalite a eu des consequences
negatives sur les realisations.
Par ailleurs, la liquidation de la BDRN avec des ressources du projet a freine la
realisation des travaux, les credits devant permettre le paiement des fournitures y sont toujours
bloques.
II faut noter qu'il y a plusieurs centres de gestion financiere du projet, a savoir
MEH/AT, MF/P et BM. De ce fait, une certaine lourdeur a et constatee et des imprecisions dans
les informations ont et notees.
II y a eu aussi un prelevement sur les ressources du projet pour des operations
qui ne lui sont pas liees.
L'audit de l'exercice 1989 a accuse un retard considerable a cause des raisons
suivantes
-      La designation de l'auditeur par la Banque et I'Emprunteur a pris du temps.
-      Le choix a porte sur un audit qui s'est reserve le droit de ne commencer ses
prestations qu'apr6s deux mois de vacances.
-      L'audit est precede a chaque fois d'un arrete des comptes qui a dure environ
deux mois.
-      Le rapport a ete depose par l'auditeur avec un retard de plus de deux mois.
L'enseignement tire de ce precedent a amene I'Emprunteur a entamer la
procedure de l'audit suffisamment a I'avance l'annee suivante. Cette procedure a quand meme
pris huit (8) mois entre la proposition de la short list des cabinets a la Banque et la fourniture du
rapport.
Il serait souhaitable que, desormais, l'IDA commande directement l'audit pour
eviter toute interpretation.



17
III   RESULTATS DU PROJET
Compte tenu des circonstances politiques et economiques dans lesquelles le projet
s'est deroule, les resultats obtenus dans les differents domaines sont plut6t appreciables:
a)     Le programme d'investissement routier a et  entierement realise pour les
financements disponibles;
b)     L'objectif de renforcement institutionnel a ete atteint au niveau de toutes les
directions;
c)     Toutes les mesures preconisees par l'etude sur la fiscalite routiere n'ont pas 6te
appliquees dans leur ensemble. Mais les efforts engag6s doivent etre poursuivis
jusqu'au point ou les recettes soient a mesure de supporter entierement les
investissements et le budget d'entretien.
Les programmes d'entretien routier courant et periodique ont ete executes de
maniere satisfaite. II faut noter que ces travaux ont ete realises en regie par des unites d'entretien
et deux brigades de rechargement et par des entreprises pour l'entretien periodique. Les
operations de promotions des PME ont et couronnees de succes. Seuls les resultats au niveau
de la construction des routes rurales, ont ete limites compte tenu des difficultes signalees plus
haut.
La capacite gestionnelle s'est amrlioree avec l'appui institutionnel apporte aux
structures associees a la gestion du secteur routier.
Meme s'il y a eu des periodes d'inactivite relative, le Service Central de Gestion
et de Suivi du Reseau est fonctionnel malgre les nombreuses difficultes rencontr6es dans
l'exploitation du materiel. Actuellement, les equipes sont a pied d'oeuvre pour la constitution des
donn6es relatives au premier semestre 1994. Plusieurs cadres ont ete formes pour l'utilisation de
HDM III ou tout au moins sensibilises.
L'execution du projet a effectivement enregistre des resultats significatifs
suivants:
a)     Une meilleure programmation des investissements dans le secteur routier,
b)     L'entretien du reseau routier pendant une periode decisive,
c)     La formation des cadres,
d)     La promotion dans le secteur routier de PME.
IV   VIABILITE DU PROJET
L'execution du premier projet sectoriel des transports a laisse au secteur des
transports des acquis certains qu'il faudra consolider dans la conception et la mise en oeuvre des
programmes futurs.



18
Des changements doivent etre apportes probablement au niveau de certains volets.
La garantie de la reussite d'une action passe par une adhesion de tous et pour ce faire une
sensibilisation est necessaire, raison pour laquelle il faut imprimer une demarche progressive.
Au dela des aspects institutionnels et des differentes mesures A prendre, des
realisations ont ete mises A la disposition des usagers et ces derniers sont tenus de les utiliser A
bon escient et de financer l'amortissement des investissements et l'entretien necessaire A leur
conservation.
V    PERFORMANCE DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
La performance du Niger a et inegale dans les differentes phases du projet ; mais
il y a une explication evidente: 1'environnement politique, economique et social n'est pas le
meme pendant les differentes phases du projet. Toute comparaison dans ces conditions entre deux
periodes ne peut etre qu'erronnee.
Des insuffisances ont et notees ponctuellement et leur impact n'a pas entrave le
bon deroulement du projet. C'est plut6t au niveau du resultat que cela s'est traduit par une
diminution des quantites A realiser.
Au niveau de la mise en oeuvre de certaines mesures institutionnelles,
1'environnement politique et economique a joue defavorablement A la cr6ation des conditions
proprices a la reussite pendant la periode du projet.
Cependant, des dispositions prises A l'issue des etudes ont abouti, par exemple,
A la reforme de la fiscalite routiere avec l'institution d'un peage routier, a la creation d'une
inspection generale au sein du Ministere charge de l'entretien routier etc...
VI  PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE
Dans l'ensemble, la Banque a et comprehensive. Ses prestations ont ete
conformes A ses obligations telles que stipulees dans I'accord de credit.
Le Niger A toujours ete traite en client respecte et toutes les facilites autorisees
lui ont ete accordees pour autant que la necessite se fait sentir.
Neanmoins quelques difficultes ont et constatees
Les informations ne passent pas quelques fois entre deux services de la
Banque.
La gestion du Projet par la Banque etait faite avec des imprecisions dans le plan
de financement, notamment la ventilation des differentes depenses entre les
cofinancements. De telle sorte que toute programmation de depenses par le
Bailleur de Fonds s'etait averee impossible, et on ne savait pas qui doit depenser
quoi. Les differents rapports d'audit l'ont d'ailleurs souligne a plusieurs reprises.
Les cofinanciers n'ont pas pris une part active dans l'execution de ce Projet car
ils ont delegue la gestion A la Banque. De ce fait, toutes les missions de



19
supervision ont e  effectuees seulement par la Banque et il est regrettable que
la derniere date de Mars 1991 pour un projet clos le 30 Juin 1993.
II y a eu par la suite I'absence d'un charge du Projet fixe ce qui complique
d'avantage les rapports entre la Banque et I'Emprunteur..
Refus categorique de la Banque de proroger la date limite de mobilisation des
fonds.
VII  RAPPORT EMPRUNTEUR/BANOUE
Les rapports entre la Banque et l'Emprunteur ont ete bons jusqu'en 1991, date
a partir de laquelle les contacts habituels ont e  suspendus. Aucune raison n'a e  avancee par
la Banque A cette attitude. Plusieurs fois des missions de supervisions ont e  annoncees puis
reportees pour etre annulees par la suite.
Certes des remous sociaux et politiques ont rendu l'atmosphere tendue mais il
s'agissait d'agitations ponctuelles n'ayant pas d'incidence directe sur le deroulement du projet.
La Banque aurait dui maintenir ces activites comme par le passe. En tout etat de cause les
problemes, s'ils existent, ne peuvent etre resolus que quand ils sont poses et examines entre les
deux parties. A la limite, la Banque aurait du demander a la partie Nig6rienne de se deplacer
pour la rencontrer a son siege oa toutes les conditions sont reunies.
Ainsi A partir de 1991, I'Emprunteur s'etait senti livre A lui meme pour la
realisation d'un projet qui devra etre une oeuvre commune. Cette situation a non seulement
bloqu6 le projet en cours mais elle a egalement ralenti la preparation du second projet.
Dans I'avenir, il est souhaitable que les contacts soient permanents et etroits et
ce quelle que soit la situation. C'est la que l'idee d'impliquer la mission residente est salutaire
dans le sens d'etablir cette liaison permanente et de suivre le projet dans l'environnement
cconomique et politique du pays.
VIII ROLE DES COFINANCIERS
Les cofinanciers ont joue un r6le tres important dans la realisation du projet. Tous
les engagements ont e  tenus et mieux certains sont alles au-dela des contributions annoncees
initialement. Ainsi des realisations dans le cadre de l'entretien periodique ont e  faites.
II est dommage que la situation financiere du Niger n'ait pas permis A ce dernier
d'honorer ses engagements; sinon la disponibilite des bailleurs de fonds du secteur des transports
presageait une activite plus importante dans le secteur.
La Banque devra continuer A appuyer le Niger dans ses relations avec les autres
bailleurs de fonds car plus que jamais 1'economie du pays necessite une relance, relance que le
Gouvernement croit obtenir a travers le secteur prive et surtout la reprise des activites dans les
travaux publics. Pour un pays enclave comme le Niger 1'essentiel des activites economiques
repose sur le transport.



20
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related IDA Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit Title                Purpose                                       Year of Approval    Status
I. Credit 55-NIR                 Engineering and construction of about 60 km of    1965             Completed
Highway Project               laterite roads serving groundnut production areas
US$1.5 million                in Zinder - Agadez region.                                                       l
2. Credit 128-NIR                Prepared under a IDA grant made in 1965 for a    1968              Completed
Highway Maintenance Project    road maintenance study. Project provided for a
US$6.5 million                 phased reorganization of the maintenance and
equipment services, and the backlog of deferred
maintenance, training and studies
3. Credit 231-NIR                Construction of 140 km prepared under the     1971                 Completed
Second Highway Project         above project and preinvestment studies for 170
US$6 million                   km
4. Credit 473-NIR                Financing for the modernization and extension of  1974             Completed
Niainey Airport                Niamey airport to assure its continued use by
US$5 million                   international transit traffic.
5. Credit 612-NIR                Continuation of the maintenance program       1976                 Completed
Third Highway project          initiated under Credit 128-NIR, and road works.
US$6 million
6. Credit 886-NIR                Three-year program of improvement,            1979                 Completed in
First Feeder Road Project      construction and maintenance of 1000 km of                         June 1986
US$10 million                  feeder roads; creation of a feeder road technical
section in the DPW; training of equipment
operators, mechanics and technical assistance to
DPW.
7. Credit 1394-NIR               Strengthening and surface dressing of 374 km of   1983             Completed in
Fourth Highway Project         paved roads, technical assistance and equipment                    June 1991
US$23.6 million                to establish and operate a Road Management
Unit, construction, equipment and technical
assistance to establish and operate a training
center.



21
Table 2. Project Timetable
Date Planned 4/      Date Revised 1'       Date Actual 6/; 2/
Pre-Identification
Identification                                                    01/85
Preparation                                                       01/85
Pre-Appraisal
Appraisal Mission      10/85                                      05-06/85
Post-Appraisal         10/85                                       11/85
Missions
Credit Negotiations   02/86                 04/86                 03/86
Board Approval        04/86                                       05/27/86
Credit Signature                                                  06/30/86
Credit                06/86                                        10/02/86
Effectiveness
Credit Closing        06/93                                       06/30/93
Project Completion    12/92                                        12/92
4/ Source: Project Brief dated May 3, 1985; SAR
5/Project Brief dated May 10, 1985
6/Source: Correspondence files, Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
7/Source: Development Credit Agreement of June 30, 1986



22
Table 3. Credit Data
(i) Credit Disbursement F
IDA Fiscal Year and Half Year   Combined Financing Disbursement (in US$ million)
Estimated        Actual cumulative  Actual % of
cumulative (a)   (b)                estimated
1986
12/31/86                   7.0               1.2              120
06/30/87                  13.0               1.7               170
1987
12/31/87                  15.0               1.7               24
06/30/88                                     6.2               48
1988
12/31/88                                    10.8               72
06/31/89                  15.5              18.4               122
1989
12/31/89                  20.0              23.5               156
06/30/90                  23.5              28.8               113
1990
01/31/90                  26.5              33.7               168
06/30/91                  28.5              32.5               138
12/31/91                  30.0              33.5               126
06/30/92                                    33.6               117
1992
12/31/92                                    34.2              114
06/30/93
1993
12/31/93                                                ________
8/    IDA and Special African Facility Financing
(a) Source S.A.R. page 76
(b) Statements of Development Credits



23
Table 3. Credit Data
(ii) Allocation of Credit Process - IDA/SAF
(SDRs)
CATEGORY               ALLOCATION    ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
91                10,
1. Civil works for Road            12,910,000              17,236,696
construction and maintenance
2. Workshop rehabilitation          1,040,000               730,665
3. a) Fuel, lubricants and         2.080,000               3,081,340
supplies L''
b) Operations costs 2             580,000                 1,750,843
4. Consultants' services, Audits   4,710,000                3,065,068
and Training
5. Unallocated                     4,680,000
TOTAL                              26,000,000              25,864,612
9/ Source: Development Credit Agreement of June 30, 1986
10/ Statements of Development Credits
11/ Set up under amendment to the DCA on August 31, 1989.
12/ Set up under amendment to the DCA on August 31, 1989.



24
Table 4. Project Implementation
Indicators 13                            Appraisal estimate 24   Actual 15L
1. Cost Recovery Action Plan             FY 1987                 FY 1990
2. Budget allocation for routine maintenance   FY 1989: CFAF 2.60  FY 1989: CFAF 2.16
billion                 billion
3. National Transport Plan Study         FY 1987                 FY 1988
4. Rural Roads Program                   917 km                  498 km
5. Niamey Say Road construction          FY 1987/1988            FY 1991/1992
cost CFA 3,100,000,000   cost CFA 3785,000,000
6. Technical Assistance for DMTP and DTT   FY 1987/1988           FY 1989/1990
Comments
- Indicators 1,2,3 were related to the policy components of the project.
- Indicators 4 and 5 were related to the physical program; Niamey Say Road construction was achieved three years
behind schedule under EDF funds instead of Italian Cooperation.
- Technical assistance contracts were delayed because of administration procedure and procurement difficulties.
13/ Source: SAR dated May 7, 1986
14/ Source: SAR dated May 7, 1986
15/ Source: Supervision reports, correspondence file; progress reports



25
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A - Project Costs
(US$ million)
Investment                  Estimate (appraisal)            Final cost l , 
Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
cost    cost    cost    cost         cost      cost
1. Road Works              5.3      166.2  171.5       6.2      188.2    194.4
(construction and
maintenance)
2. Equipment Purchase      0.4        9.1    9.5        0.4       9.9      10.3
3. Technical Assistance    0.3        6.4    6.7        0.6      19.2      19.8
and Training                                               I
Sub-total                   6.0     181.7  187.7        7.2     217.3    224.5
Operating Costs                                            3l6 l
4. Rent, Supplies, Labor    22.4      3.1   25.5    * 57.1        3.4      60.5
Sub-total                 22.4        3.1   25.5
Projet Total Cost         28.6      184.8  212.4    * 64.3      220.7      285
16/   This final cost includes roads works carried out before 1991; the appraisal estimate is base on the road investment
program for 1986/1989.
* Local cost estimate are based on the operating yearly budgets. Data on actual costs are not available.



26
B. Project Financing
(US$ thousand)
Credit Agreement              Actual
1. IDA/SAF/SJF/ 17
- Road Works                                     21,883                         22,800
(construction and maintenance)
- Road and Workshop Equipment                     4,300                          9,100
- Technical Assistance                            4,710                          4,000
- Operating Costs                                 2,660                          4,832
Sub-total                                                                     40,732
2. COFINANCING
EDF/CCCE/AFDB/ABEDA/CIDA/                                                    220 700
OPEC/OECF/UNSO/
3. Local Financing                                                              23 568
17/   These IDA-financed projects are the Fourth Highway Project, the Feeder Roads Project, and the Transport Sector
Project.



27
Table 6. Status of Covenants
Section                     DESCRIPTION                       STATUS   COMMENTS
2.02. (b)   Open and maintain in CFAF a special account in a    Met
commercial IDA
3.03.      Open, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the    Met
(a),(b),(c)  Association and thereafter maintain, for purposes of
Parts B, C and D of the Project Account in BDRN
for payment of expenditures under the investment
budget ; make into such Project Account an initial
deposit of forty million CFAF. Quarterly replenish
the Project Account.
3.04. (a),  Furnish for review not later than March 31 of each   Met for  Political and
(b)        Year until the Project has been completed = (1) an   (2),(3)   Social unrest;
analysis of the Borrower's cost recovery          (4),(5)     since 1990,
achievement in the transport sector; (2) an analysis   and (6) up  no budget
of the Borrower's work program achievement; (3)   to 1989     policy
a draft expenditure program for the transport
sector; the action plan proposal for cost recovery;
(4) the detailed draft work program and budget; (5)
the draft three year rolling plan for investment and
recurrent expenditures; (6) a proposal for sub-
projects selected under part B. of the project.
Annually consult with Association on matters
related to transport sector policy.
3.05.(a),(   Review with the Association the recommendations     Met
b)         of the Transport Study; consult with the
Association on the timetable of follow-up actions
required to implement them.
3.06.      Consult with the Association on the                   Met
recommendations of the BGR study on the
measures to control axle loads and the program to
implement them.
4.01.      Maintain or cause to be maintained records and     Not met    Accounting
(a),(b),(c)  accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with              system not in
sound accounting practices the operation, resources           place. Audit
and expenditures in respect of the Project. Have the         late and
accounts referred above, including the Special                unqualified
Account for each Fiscal audited. Furnish to the
Association not later than 6 months after the end of
each year a certified copy of the report of such
audit.



28
4.02.      Allocate to cover the cost of routine maintenance  Met up to  See 3.04
an amount equivalent to not less than =        1989
(i) CFAF 1.530.000.000 for FY 1985-86
CFAF 1.800.000.000 for FY 1986-87
CFAF 2.160.000.000 for FY 1987-88
CFAF 2.570.000.000 for FY 1988-89
4.03.      Annual review of the scale of DMTP equipment    Not met   See 3.04
rental rates, in order to allow DMTP to cover full
operational costs, repair cost and equipment
amortization based on replacement costs.
4.04       Cause workshops, road maintenance equipment and   Met
related facilities to be operated and adequately
maintained and all necessary repairs replacement to
be made.
4.05       Cause its road network to be reasonably maintained   Met up to  See 3.04
and promptly repaired, and provided or cause to be   1990
provided the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the foregoing.
4.06       Take reasonable measures to enforce its traffic laws  Not met    See 3.04
including axle load control and vehicle inspection
requirements and inform the Association on the
actions taken or proposed to be taken in this
connection.



29
Table 7. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff (man x week)
Project Phase                  forecast       actual
before Appraisal                               17.3
from Appraisal to Board                        34.8
Approval
from Board Approval to                          4.4
Credit Effectiveness
Supervision                                    63.4
TOTAL                                         119.8
B. Missions
Project Phase      month/  number of  mission      specialties    performance   type of
year      staff      days      involved         rating     problem
Identification     01/85       2          10         ET/IR
Appraisal          05/85       4          18         ET/IR
Post-appraisal     10/85       2           5         ET/IR
Supervision 1      11/86       4          23        ET/IR/C           1
Supervision 2      10/87       2           4          ET              1
Supervision 3      12/87       2          10         ET/IR            1
Supervision 4      05/88       2          10         ET/IR            1
Supervision 5      12/88       2          10         ET/IR            I
Supervision 6      04/89       2          12         ET/IR            1        0
Supervision 7      12/89        1          4          ET              2        G.O.
Supervision 8      07/90       3          15         ET/IR            2        P.G.O.
Supervision 9      03/91        1          4          ET              2        P.G.O.
Completion         11/93        1          3          AF
Report                                 _ _ _ _ __                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
TE = Transport Economist; RE = Road Enginner; C = Consultant; FA = Financial Analyst
1 = no problem; 2 = moderate problem; 3 = major problem
P = Political; G = Management; 0 = Operational



