AFRICAN-FAC1LITY CREDIT NUMBER A-18 NIR
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Transport Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY for SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                              , 1986


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-18 NIR
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             <c              , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER (th4Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION  as   ADMINISTRATOR  of   the  SPECIAL  FACILITY  for
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested assistance from the resources of
the African Facility in the financing of the Project, and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA (the
Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
thirteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,000,000) (the IDA
Credit);
(D) the Administrator has received a letter dated Decem-
ber 30, 1985 from the Borrower describing a program of objec-
tives, policies and actions designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy, declaring, inter alia, the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the transport sector
adjustment program described in Annex 3 thereto;
(E) Pursuant to Section F of the Resolution, the Government
of Japan (Japan) has agreed to provide Japanese funds in the form
of grants (the SJF Grants) in support of programs of structural
change, policy reform and institutional improvement in countries
which are eligible for financing from the African Facility's
resources;


﻿-2-
(F) by the notes exchanged between Japan and IDA on
November 20, 1985, (the Notes) concerning the SJF grants, Japan
and IDA agreed that IDA will act as Administrator of the Japanese
funds in accordance with the provisions of the Notes;
(G) the Borrower has requested Japanese funds from the
Administrator for the financing of part of the Project, in an
amount equivalent to four million US dollars (US$4,000,000), and
the Administrator has determined that provision of such funds
(the Japanese Grant) would be in accordance with the provisions
of the Resolution and the Arrangement;
(H) under the Notes concerning the provision of Japanese
funds in the form of loans as a part of Japan's cooperation with
the African Facility the Borrower intends to obtain from the
Japan Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (hereinafter called
OECF) a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount equivalent to sixteen
million US dollars (US$16,000,000) to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(I) the Borrower intends to contract from the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (hereinafter called CCCE) a
Loan in an amount of three billion CFAF (CFAF 3,000,000,000) (the
CCCE Loan) to assist in the financing of the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the CCCE Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(J) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (AfDF) a loan (the AfDF Loan) in an amount of
ten million AfDF currency units (AfDF-CU 10,000,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the AfDF Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and AfDF;
(K)  the Borrower int,-s to contract from the European
Development Fund (EDF) a grant (the EDF Grant) in an amount of
ECU 20,000,000 equivalent to US$20,000,000 to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the EDF Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and EDF; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the African Facility Credit to
the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General
Conditions, means    the  International  Development   Association
acting as Administrator of the African Facility, except in the
phrase "member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b)
and 6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African
Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", respec-
tively;
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 and the second
sentence of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and condiL ons of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those
Articles;
(b)   "RTPH" means the Ministere des Travaux Publics et de
l'Habitat of the Borrower;


﻿-4-
(c)  "DMTP" means the Direction du Mat6riel des Travaux
Publics of the Borrower;
(d) "DTP" means the Direction des Travaux Publics of the
Borrower;
(e)  "BGR" means the Bureau de Gestion Routiare of the
Borrower;
(f) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the Project,
as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(g) "Special Account" meqns the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(h)  "CFAF" means the common currency of the Borrower and
the other members of the West African Monetary Union;
(i)  "Fiscal  Year"   means   the  Borrower's   fiscal  year
beginning October 1 and ending September 30;
(j) "Transport Study" means the study to be undertaken
under IDA Credit No. 1493 NIR;
(k)  "BDRN" means Banque de Developpement de la Republique
du Niger; and
(1)  "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirteen million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 13,000,000).


﻿-5-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; and (ii) any
country designated by the Administrator as meeting the provisions
set forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall, to the extent possible, withdraw
the proceeds of the African Facility Credit before the proceeds
of the Japanese Grant and the OECF Loan, and withdraw the
proceeds of the Japanese Grant and the OECF Loan before the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
-um on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
,ithdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)


﻿- 6 -
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1996
and ending May 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Public Works and Housing with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement subject to the eligibility
restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall:
(a) open, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Administrator and thereafter maintain for purposes of Parts B, C
and D of the Project, a Project Account in BDRN for payment of
expenditures under the investment budget;
(b) make into such Project Account an initial deposit of
forty million CFAF (CFAF 40,000,000); and
(c) in addition to the initial deposit referred to in
paragraph (b) hereof, quarterly replenish the Project Account so
that the funds available in such Project Account shall at all
times be sufficient to permit timely and efficient execution of
Parts B, C and D of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) Unless the Borrower and the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Administrator for review not later than March 31 of each year
until the Project has been completed:
(i) the following documents for the past Fiscal Year:
(A) an analysis of the Borrower's cost recovery
achievements in the transport sector, and (B) an
analysis of the Borrower's work program achieve-
ments;
(ii)  the following documents for the upcoming Fiscal
Year: (A) the draft expenditure program for the
transport sector, (B) the action plan proposal for
cost recovery, provided that, for Fiscal Year
1987/88, this action plan will be furnished not
later than June 30, 1987, (C) the detailed draft
work program and budget, (D) the draft three-year
rolling plan for investments and recurrent expen-
ditures in the transport sector, and (E) a propo-
sal for sub-projects selected under Part B of the
Project in accordance with criteria satisfactory
to the Administrator.
(b) The Borrower shall consult with the Administrator on
matters related to the transport sector policy the draft docu-
ments referred to under paragraph (a) (ii) above.


﻿-8-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) review with the Admin-
istrator the recommendations of the Transport Study; and (b)
promptly consult with the Administrator on the timetable of
follow-up actions required to implement them.
Section 3.06. Upon completion of the BGR study on the mea-
sures to control axle loads, the Borrower shall consult with the
Administrator on the recommendations of such study and on the
program to implement them.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account for
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning the said accounts and the audit
thereof and said records as the Administrator
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-9-
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Admin-
istrator has received the audit report for the
Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the
African Facility Credit Account was made, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Administrator's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. Unless the Borrower and the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall allocate in its budgets
to cover the cost of routine recurrent maintenance of its roads,
an amount equivalent to not less than:
(i) CFAF 1,530,000,000 for Fiscal Year 1985/86;
(ii) CFAF 1,800,000,000 for Fiscal Year 1986/87;
(iii) CFAF 2,160,000,000 for Fiscal Year 1987/88; and
(iv) CFAF 2,570,000,000 for Fiscal Year 1988/89;
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall undertake an annual review
of the scale of DMTP equipment rental rates and whenever such
review reveals that the annual revenues of DMTP shall not be
sufficient to allow DMTP to cover its full operational cost,
repair cost and equipment amortization costs based on replacement
costs, the Borrower shall revise such scale in order to allow
DMTP to cover said full costs.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause workshops, road
maintenance equipment and related facilities to be operated and
adequately maintained and all necessary repairs and replacements
thereof to be made in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause its road network to
be reasonably maintained and promptly repaired in accordance with
sound engineering practices, and shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take reasonable measures to
enforce its traffic laws, including axle load control and vehicle
inspection requirements, and shall inform the Administrator from
time to time on the actions taken and proposed to be taken in
this connection.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan or credit (including the IDA Credit)
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(ii) any such loan or credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) paragraph    (a)  of  this   Section  shall   not  apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Administrator that: (i) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on


﻿- 11 -
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Admin-
istrator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution
and such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in
such notice.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 12 -
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
B.P. 862
Niamey
Niger
Cable address:                          Telex:
MINIPLAN                               5463NI
Niamey
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By5
By Aut orized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY for
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By /5
Regirdnal Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the African Facility Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the African Facility Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
African Facility
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                7,360,000            95%
for road con-
struction and
maintenance
(2) Workshop rehab-              520,000            95%
ilitation
(3) Fuel, lubricants           1,130,000            100%
and supplies for
Fiscal Year
1986 - 1987
(4) Consultants'               2,170,000           100%
services
(5) Unallocated                1,820,000
TOTAL               13,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures under Category 1 after September 30 of
each year the Project is executed starting September 30, 1987,
unless the Administrator shall be satisfied for the upcoming


﻿- 15 -
with the documents referred to under Section 3.04 (a) (ii) of
this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
improving the performance of its transport sector through, inter
alia, the implementation of an agreed sectoral strategy and
investment program, an adequate allocation of resources for
routine and periodic road maintenance, the provision of urgent
road and bridge rehabilitation works, the construction of
economically justified rural roads, institutional strengthening,
and improved cost recovery.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:   Routine Maintenance
Routine maintenance works on the priority road network
including patching bitumen surfaced roads; regrading
shoulders, gravel and earth roads; spot regravelling,
culvert cleaning, and sand removal.
Part B:   Construction, Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance
1.   Regravelling, resurfacing and strengthening of selected
road sections.
2.   Rehabilitation of drainage structure, and replacement
of the Gaya bridge.
3.   Improvement and construction of secondary and rural
roads and tracks.
4.   Construction of the Zinder-Agadez road, widening of the
Takieta-Zinder road, rehabilitation of the Djadjiri-
Diffa road.
5.   Implementation  of  other  agreed  road   construction,
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance sub-projects to
be identified.
Part C:   Equipment and Workshops
1.   Acquisition of equipment and vehicles for DMTP.


﻿- 17 -
2.   Rehabilitation and equipping of workshops.
Part D:   Studies, Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Design, preparation of contract documentation, and con-
struction supervision.
2.   Assistance for institutional strengthening in planning,
equipment management, personnel and financial manage-
ment, and training, and for the implementation of cost
recovery policies.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A. International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines). For purposes
of the African Facility Credit Agreement, all references in the
Guidelines to the Bank and to loans shall be deemed to be
references to the Administrator and to the African Facility
Credit, respectively.
2.   The eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement shall be stated in the tender or prequalifica-
tion documents for the procurement of such goods and works.
Bidders for the works included in Part B of the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods and works for rehabilitation of drainage structures,
regravelling, and workshop rehabilitation may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Administrator.
2.   Routine maintenance, regravelling of unpaved roads, and
construction of rural roads may be procured under force account
by DTP.


﻿- 19 -
Part D: Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (i) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Administrator pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Administrator prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information re-
quired to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Administrator as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Admin-
istrator has authorized withdrawals from the African Facility
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)
(ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall


﻿- 20 -
be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For
the purposes of the African Facility Credit Agreement, references
in these Guidelines to the Bank and to loans shall be deemed to
be to the Administrator and to the African Facility Credit,
respectively.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1.
through 4 set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable crst of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to CFAF 400,000,000 to be withdrawn from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The   Borrower  shall  furnish   to  the  Administrator
requests for replenishment of the Special Account at such inter-
vals as the Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the


﻿- 22 -
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African Facility
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the   total  unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  African
Facility Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories, minus the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Admin-
istrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satis-
fied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 23 -
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  3        day of
198FER                             A
FOR SECRETARY


