Report No. PIC1137
Project Name   Romania-Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Non-sectoral
Project ID                ROPA8773
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance
Date PID Prepared         August 8, 1994
Appraisal Date            October 10, 1994
Projected Board Date      February 28, 1995
Country and Sector Background
1.   Romania is a lower-middle income country with a population of
about 23 million and a per capita GDP estimated at US$1,233 in 1993.
Following the demise of the previous regime in late 1989, Romania
faced a daunting agenda of systemic and structural reforms in the
transition to a market economy. A large volume of legislation has
been passed establishing new institutions and the fundamental
statutory framework required to govern public and private economies in
a market setting. Despite a poor initial performance in the early
years of the transition, macro-economic adjustment has been achieved
in early 1994, with the support of the IMF and the World Bank.     The
budget was balanced in 1993 and, during the first quarter of 1994,
inflation has abated to a double-digit level from about 300 percent a
year in 1993. Substantial progress was also made in 1993 in
implementing systemic and structural reform. Trade liberalization has
proceeded swiftly; prices has been largely liberalized or set at
international level; most consumer subsidies have been removed; the
rate of exchange of the Leu is now freely set by the market. The
social safety net is being revamped.
2.   However, the reform of the financial and enterprise sectors has
been lagging. Since 1989, the industrial output has declined by more
than 50 percent. About 1 million workers -- percent of the work
force -- have left industrial employment in the last 3 years. Still,
the industrial decline seems to have bottomed out in 1993 and a modest
recovery in industrial production is being observed. Meanwhile, the
private sector is emerging rapidly. It presently accounts for more
than 30 percent of GDP. The public enterprise sector has been
lagging. Less than 5 percent of the capital stock had been
privatized. More than 6,500 enterprises remain publicly owned and
still dominate most of the industrial sector.    While aggregate losses
of the sector are estimated at a manageable 1.8 percent of GDP in
1993, the build up of enter-enterprise arrears -- estimated at 17
percent of GDP, -- is threatening to upset the recently achieved
macro-stabilization.
3.   The systemic transformation of the financial sector still faces
major challenges. Following the creation of a two tier banking system
early in 1990, the banking sector has developed rapidly, under the



supervision of the National Bank of Romania.    There are presently
four major state-owned banks which have shown progress toward becoming
market-oriented. In addition, several new private and semi-private
banks have been established and a total of banks are presently
operating in Romania.     The banking sector faces three major
challenges : i) a continued need for institution building, both by
way of system infrastructure and skills enhancement; ii) restoration
to financial health, and iii) privatization. Banks are still weak and
cannot fully play their role in credit allocation. Their health has
been adversely affected by the mediocre financial performance of
public enterprises and by an excessive stock of non-performing loans.
Capital markets are not operating yet, although the needed legal
framework has been approved in mid-94. The structural reform of the
financial and public enterprise sectors has become a matter of utmost
urgency. Both reforms must be conducted simultaneously, as the health
of the first depends on the strength of the other.
The Country's Adjustment Program
4.   The Government has taken a number of steps to maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework. Its program focusses on : i) maintenance
strict fiscal discipline and of a balance budget; ii) monetary
policies and exchange rate policies designed to support the program's
inflation objective, build sufficient international reserves and
stabilize the currency, and, iii) improvement of the external
account. This new stabilization program is supported by a recently
approved Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF, complemented by a
Structural Transformation Facility.
5.   However, continued stabilization efforts have to be accompanied
by an acceleration of structural reforms in the financial and the
enterprise sectors, as both are intimately interconnected. The
Government program, to be supported by proposed FESAL, would address
the main structural issues of the financial and enterprise sector
through a 2-prongued and integrated approach that would include
In the enterprise sector:
(1) a sharp acceleration of state-owned enterprises'
privatization, including a mass privatization program. This
is the cornerstone of the program;
(2) the enforcement of hard budget constraints on remaining
state-owned enterprises. A selected group of major loss-
makers and of enterprises carrying large payment arrears
will be placed in a special surveillance program, where
their management will be required to negociate agreements
with their creditors, including banks, on the basis of
credible financial recovery plans, and;
(3) implementation of a strategy and action-plan to eliminate
constraints to private sector development.
In the financial sector
-2-



(4) bank restructuring and privatization of at least two of the
largest state-owned banks;
(5) improvement of banks credit and risk analysis capabilities
and establishment of work-out departments to negociate loan
restructuring or partial forgiveness with the enterprises
which present credible financial recovery plans;
(6) strenghtening of the supervisory and surveillance capacity
of the National Bank of Romania;
(7) Introduction of a limited deposit insurance scheme for
individual deposits;
The Proposed Loan
Objectives
6.   The principal objective of this Loan is to support the
implementation of an integrated program of policy, institutional and
structural reforms in the financial and enterprise sectors. This
program will build on the progress achieved in stabilizing the
economy, improving macroeconomic management and in establishing a
market-oriented legal and institutional framework. By providing
quick-disbursing funds, the Loan will also help mitigate pressures on
the country's balance of payment, currency and budget.
Description
7.   The proposed Loan, in the amount of US$0 million equivalent, will
be granted to the Romania for a period of twenty years, including a
five-year grace period, at the World Bank's standard variable interest
rate. Given the need to support a strong program of economic reform,
the proposed Loan would be entirely quick-disbursing in two equal
tranches of US$1 million each.
Financing
8.   The Loan may finance 100 percent of the CIF costs of general
imports, excluding luxury goods, military equipment, nuclear reactors
and parts, uranium, tobacco and tobacco processing machinery, and
environmentally hazardous products defined under the Standard
International Trade Classification.
Environmental aspects
9.   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on
Environment Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has
been placed in category "U" and does not require an environmental
assessment.
Implementation arrangements
10. All contracts for the procurement of general imports would be
awarded following standard procedures in accordance with the Bank's
-3 -



Guidelines for Procurement. Contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$5 million and above would be subject to simplified
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. The Bidding
Documents which have been previously designed by the Government of
Romania and approved by the World Bank for the previous adjustment
loan, would be used for all ICB procurement actions under the proposed
Loan.
11. For procurement of commonly traded commodities special procedures
as applicable to the respective organized international commodity
markets may be followed. These procedures would be subject to the
Bank's prior approval. All contracts below the equivalent of US$5
million would be awarded following International Shopping procedures
by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
from at least two eligible countries. All contracts, the relevant
Bidding Documents and bid evaluation reports would be sent to the Bank
for ex-post review before the submission of the first application for
withdrawal of funds with respect to such contracts.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



