Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19340
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan 3975-0, 1, 2-RO
May 24, 1999
Private and Financial Sector Development Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
as of May 24, 1999
Currency Unit: Leu/Lei
ILeu = 6.59065E-05 US$;
US$I = 15,496 Lei
YEAR-END EXCHANGE RATES (Lei to US$1)
1993         1994          1995         1996          1997         1998
1,276        1,767        2,578         4,035        8,023         10,951
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Andrew Vorkink Director, ECCO5
Sector Director: Lajos Bokros, ECSPF
Sector Leaders: Gerhard Pohl, Hennie Van Greuning, Yasuo Izumi, ECSPF
Program Team Leaders: Khaled Sherif, Hiran Herat, ECSPF
FESAL Task Managers: Martin Slough, Patrick Tardy, ECSPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AR  Agency for Restructuring
BA  Banca Agricola
BP  Banc Post
BKHF  British Know-How Fund
BSE  Bucharest Stock Exchange
CC  Commercial Company
CEC Savings Bank
CNVM   Securities Exchange Commission
EU  European Union
FESAL  Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FRF Financial Recovery Fund
FRP Financial Recovery Program
GD  Government Decision
GOR Government of Romania
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA International Development Association
IMF  International Monetary Fund
IPO Initial Public Offering
MEBO  Management/Employee Buyout
MOF Ministry of Finance
MOP Ministry of Privatization
MPP Mass Privatization Program
NAP  National Agency for Privatization
NBR National Bank of Romania
PIU Project Implementation Unit
POF  Private Ownership Fund
PSD Private Sector Development
RA  Regie Autonome
RBD Romanian Bank for Development
RCB  Romanian Commercial Bank
RDA  Romanian Development Agency
SAL Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA Stand-By Arrangement
SME Small and Medium-sized Enterprise
SOCB  State-Owned Commercial Bank
SOE State-Owned Enterprise
SOF State Ownership Fund
TA  Technical Assistance
USAID  United States Agency for International Development
ROMANIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3975-0, 1, 2-RO)
CONTENTS
PREFACE                            ...............................................          I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................                       i-viii
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ......................................1I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .......................................5
C. IMPLEMENTATION AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.. 14
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ......................................                 15
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ......................................1  5
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................................                   16
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................................                  16
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ......................................                      17
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................                    17
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ..............................................                21
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .22
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .24
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .25
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED &
ACTUAL .26
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .27
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .47
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .47
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS                 ..                 .................................... 48
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING                 ...................................... 48
TABLE 9:  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ......................................      48
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ......................................      49
TABLE I 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .53
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ......................................     53
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ......................................       53



APPENDICES:
1. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
2. INITIAL FESAL PROGRAM POLICY MATRIX
3. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
4. COFINANCIER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN)
5. SECOND PORTION RELEASE MEMORANDUM
6. GENERAL MAP



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3975-0, 1, 2-RO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL) in Romania, for which loan 3975-0, 1, 2-RO in an amount of
US$280 million equivalent was approved on January 18, 1996 and made effective on February
29, 1996.
The loan was closed on April 30, 1998, although the original closing date was to be
December 31, 1997. The first portion (US$60 million equivalent) and the floating portion
(US$40 million equivalent), released upon effectiveness, were fully disbursed by March 1, 1996.
The disbursements of the second portion totaling US$80 million equivalent under Loan 3975-0-
RO and Loan 3975-1-RO took place on June 12 and 17, 1997, respectively. The balance of
US$100 million equivalent, corresponding to the third portion of the loan, was canceled on April
30, 1998. Co-financing of the project was provided by the Export-Import Bank of Japan.
The ICR was prepared by Martin Slough, Patrick Tardy, Jimmy lorga, Arabela
Negulescu, and Nuzhat Ahmad (all ECSPF) of the Europe and Central Asia Region and finalized
by Khaled Sherif, Oleg Petrov, Ramin Shojai, and Tatiana Segal (all ECSPF). It was reviewed by
Andrew Vorkink, Director ECCO5, and Lajos Bokros, Director ECSPF. The borrower and the
co-financier provided comments that are included as appendices to the ICR.
This ICR was prepared between July and September 1998. The report, which is based on
material in the project file, was finalized during the Bank's completion mission in March 1999.
The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3975-0, 1, 2-RO)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL) of US$280 million was
to support the financial and enterprise sector reform program of the Government and of the
National Bank of Romania (NBR). The Loan was appraised in October 1995 and approved by
the Board on January 18, 1996. The loan agreement was signed on January 19, 1996, and the loan
was made effective on February 29, 1996. The first portion and the floating portion of US$60
million and US$40 million equivalent, respectively, were disbursed upon effectiveness. The
second portion of US$80 million was disbursed in two parts on June 12 and 17, 1997,
respectively. The closing date of the loan was extended from December 31, 1997 to April 30,
1998. When the FESAL was closed on April 30, 1998, the third portion of US$100 million
equivalent was canceled.
2.    The reform program supported by the FESAL was designed to build on and complement
the reforms previously undertaken in 1990 by the Government and the NBR under a World Bank
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL). Preparation of the FESAL started in 1992 at a time when the
Romanian economy was suffering from major dislocations. Between 1989 and 1993, the
economy contracted by 32 percent-industrial output declined by 54 percent-as a result of the
collapse of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), the Gulf crisis, and the
turmoil in (ex-)Yugoslavia. Romania's initial attempts at stabilizing the economy in 1991 and
1992 were not successful. Inflation remained high. Implementation problems and fiscal and
credit policies, including insufficient financial discipline in state-owned enterprises (SOEs),
played a major role in creating macro-imbalances. However, a major fiscal adjustment took
place in 1993 and 1994, and macro-stabilization was broadly achieved by the end of 1994. At the
end of 1994, fiscal deficits were limited to 2 percent of GDP, inflation fell to 25 percent, and
growth had recovered to 3.9 percent. These adjustments took place during an interim period in
which the Government recognized the need for macro-stabilization to make structural reforms
effectively take hold. The Government had demonstrated a strong and sustained commitment to
stabilizing the economy at the time. This effort was supported by the IMF through a stand-by
arrangement (SBA) approved in May 1994.
3.    Important successes were achieved in structural reform. As a result of the 1991 Land
Reform Program, 80 percent of land became privately owned. The country's housing stock was
largely privatized. A majority of SOEs were corporatized. Progress was also made in price and
trade liberalization. A Value-Added Tax (VAT) was introduced. The social safety net was
strengthened. The energy, transport, telecommunication, and social sectors made some progress,
albeit uneven, supported by loans from the World Bank.



4.     However, major structural issues remained, including: (i) enterprise and bank
privatization'; (ii) the chronic losses of SOEs in metallurgy, mining, energy, petrochemicals,
transport, mechanical, and agro-processing industries2; (iii) weak financial discipline in the SOE
sector3; (iv) the deteriorating quality of banks' portfolios as a result of the accumulation of
payment arrears and non-performing loans to industry and agriculture; (v) inadequate supervisory
and enforcement capabilities of the NBR; (vi) inadequate bank accounting and auditing
standards; and (vii) the absence of capital markets. These structural issues needed to be
addressed promptly to remove a potential threat to the still fragile macroeconomic stability that
had been achieved.
Project Objectives
5.     The first Government program, supported by the FESAL, was designed to address these
outstanding structural issues through an integrated approach:
The Enterprise Sector.
(a) Accelerating SOE privatization, including a mass privatization program (MPP)
that was the cornerstone of the program;
(b) Enforcing hard budget constraints on remaining SOEs. The major loss-makers
were placed in a special surveillance program, where management was required
to restore financial viability and negotiate debt rescheduling agreements with
their creditors or they would face liquidation;
(c) Implementing an action plan to stimulate private sector development;
The Financial Sector
(d) Gradually raising the soundness of the banking system by:
(i) Requiring banks to establish adequate loan-loss provisions for their impaired
loan portfolios;
(ii) Phasing in the collateralization of NBR refinancing;
(iii) Strengthening the supervisory and enforcement capacity of the NBR;
6,300 commercial companies (CCs) and approximately 400 non-corporatized regies autonomes
(RAs), representing approximately 60 percent of output and employment, were state-owned. The five
major commercial banks and the savings bank were state-owned.
2      It was estimated that, on a cash flow basis, the SOE sector generated an aggregate negative
operating cash flow of approximately 6 percent of GDP.
3      Aggregate payment arrears in the economy were estimated at 23 percent of GDP in 1993.
ii



(iv) Enhancing competition and the role of the private sector in the banking
system by privatizing banks;
(e) Limiting the recapitalization of banks by the state;
(f) Introducing a deposit insurance scheme for individual depositors; and
(g) Developing the capital market by opening the Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE)
and creating an over-the-counter market, the RASDAQ.
Implementation Experience and Results
6. After a promising start, the program floundered in mid-1996 as the Government's attention
shifted toward the presidential and legislative elections that took place in October 1996. In
particular, the privatization of banks and enterprises slowed down, except for the mass
privatization program (MPP), which went ahead; utility tariffs were frozen, thereby increasing
losses in the utilities sector and arrears in the enterprise sector; and financial discipline was not
enforced. Socially painful or politically sensitive measures were avoided.
7. A new government ostensibly committed to undertaking deep and fast reform came to power
in late 1996 and asked the Bank to revise the program supported by the FESAL to accelerate the
pace of reform. The revised and deepened program, agreed upon with the Bank in February
1997, was more wide-ranging and more rigorous than the original one. Several components were
added to the original set. The overall objectives of the program remained the same. Many of the
measures to implement the revised program called for wide-ranging and significant changes in
the legal framework.
8. This revised program was a success in some areas and a failure in others. The Government
did not meet its commitment regarding the maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic
framework. By the end of March 1998, the performance criteria agreed upon with the IMF were
not met and the SBA was terminated in April 1998, with two out of five tranches unreleased. In
the enterprise sector, privatization targets-the cornerstone of the program-and the conditions
for private sector development were met, though less than 20% of SOF's portfolio had been sold
by end-1997. However, the surveillance program failed: SOEs continued to accumulate
unacceptably large losses and payment arrears. In the financial sector, significant progress was
made, and loan conditions were met in areas such as the collateralization of NBR refinancing
credits; mandatory external audits of banks; creation of a deposit insurance scheme; reform of the
payments system; and the successful opening of the BSE and the RASDAQ. However, the
program failed to privatize two state-owned banks. Furthermore, the two largest banks, Bancorex
and Banca Agricola (BA), faced major difficulties during that period and were bailed out by the
state budget, in defiance of one of the conditions of the loan, due to the insufficient progress and
enforcement of loan-loss provisioning, prudential regulations, NBR supervision, and the new
chart of accounts for banks.
9.     Because real progress was made in implementing the revised program during the first
part of 1997, the Board agreed to grant five waivers of the original conditions (as a tougher
program had actually been implemented) and approved the disbursement of the US$80 million
second portion of the FESAL on June 6, 1997. The memorandum "Release of Second Portion -
Waiver of Conditions" is attached in Appendix 5 of this report. However, the reform program
iii



then floundered in the second half of 1997 and into the first quarter of 1998 due to political
difficulties within the governing coalition and a loss of commitment to reform. The FESAL
closing date was extended for four months (from December 31, 1997 to April 30, 1998) in a last
attempt to revive the program. However, little progress was made in meeting Third Portion
conditions during the extension period. The Government then agreed with the Bank to allow the
FESAL to lapse on April 30, 1998. The last portion of US$100 million was not disbursed.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Summary offindings. The project had significant development outcomes. Under the
FESAL, pricing and trade has mostly been liberalized. Against a target of 3,600 SOEs, more
than 4,000 SOEs were privatized. Utilities are being corporatized and prepared for privatization
(e.g., a minority equity share of the telecommunications company was privatized in late
1998/early 1999). Obstacles to new enterprise creation were removed, and more than 300,000
new enterprises were registered during that period. The program initiated significant downsizing
of loss-making enterprises and a reduction in their labor forces, particularly in mines4. This was
accompanied by measures to cushion the social impact of such reductions. A mass privatization
program (MPP) was designed and implemented, resulting in 15 million Romanians becoming
shareholders. The program was instrumental in supporting the creation of a capital market, in
close cooperation with other donors. The legal regulations to strengthen the prudential,
supervisory, and enforcement capabilities of the NBR were promulgated. Other important
components of banking infrastructure- payments system, deposit insurance, banks' chart of
accounts, credit risk information bureau-were created. Major pieces of legislation were passed,
including the privatization law, mining law, foreign investment law, law establishing eligibility
criteria for severance payments, bankruptcy law, revised banking law, revised NBR law, bank
privatization law, bank insolvency law, revised law governing the savings bank, and the
securities exchange law. All of these developments are expected to have salutary effects on
subsequent reform efforts, although their earlier absence complicated the abi]ity to effectively
implement reforms under the FESAL. Belatedly, privatization of state banks began in late
1998/early 1999 (BRD and Bancpost).
11.   Overall, the objectives of the enterprise restructuring program have not been achieved, in
particular with respect to utility restructuring and the closure of loss-making CCs. This was due
to the powerful resistance of labor unions and other vested interests, which could not be
overcome because the political commitment to achieve program objectives was lacking. The
legal framework and the judicial system also proved inadequate, in particular with regard to
expediting the liquidation of non-viable firms. The Bankruptcy Law proved hopelessly
cumbersome and slow to apply. Most of the CCs that were eventually liquidated were closed by
order of the SOF, their owner, under the provisions of the Trade Act. However, the program was
surprisingly successful in the mining sector, where maximum resistance was expected. This
success was facilitated by providing generous redundancy payments to workers who volunteered
to resign from these mines. Restoration of financial discipline in enterprises was not successful.
To impose a hard budget constraint on enterprises placed under surveillance, the initial program
placed a cap on the financial support available from the state, the SOF, and the banks. However,
the caps were too generous; the enterprises were able to renegotiate their debts with their
creditors without undertaking cost-cutting measures.
4     Around 100,000 miners left during thie second part of 1997.
iv



12.   In spite of the failure to implement the last part of the program, the FESAL has had a
positive impact on the structural reform of Romania. Most of the measures taken, especially in
price and trade liberalization, SOE privatization, banks, and capital market regulation are
irreversible. This is expected to assist immeasurably with future project implementation,
particularly as significant institutional capacity has been built up during the course of the FESAL,
and as the need for structural reform to reverse the economic decline becomes more obvious.
The Government has now realized that the success of reform is dependent on the progress of
three major areas: privatization (of banks, enterprises, and utilities); elimination of financial
support to non-viable loss-making firms; and development of a sound banking system. This clear
delineation was not so clear to the authorities in 1992 when the FESAL was initially designed.
However, the persistent decline in the economy is now recognized to be the consequence of
delays in structural reform. Thus, future operations are expected to have a broader base of
support in recognition of the insufficiency of past programs to achieve needed structural reforms.
Also, a much more comprehensive legal framework has been enacted, and a major effort at
institution building has been undertaken under the FESAL. This foundation will facilitate
implementation of subsequent operations.
13.   The FESAL also provided an umbrella for a vast array of technical assistance and
training programs (delivered either by the Bank or by other donors) to build up local institutional
capabilities and to train national experts. The FESAL program became the policy anchor of
bilateral support, in particular from the European Union (EU) and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID). Close and effective cooperation was achieved between the
Bank and other donors.
14.    Future Operations. The FESAL was allowed to lapse on April 30, 1998 because it had
become apparent that the remainder of the program as designed would not be implemented in a
reasonably short span of time. The program needed an overhaul, in particular to reflect the views
and agenda of the new Government elected in April 1998, and to incorporate some of the lessons
learned. The Government and the Bank have updated the structural reform program and have
agreed upon a new operation. This new operation "Private Sector Adjustment Loan, RO-PE-
64853" was negotiated with the Government on April 30th, 1999, and will be presented to the
Board on June 10, 1999. This project will be a two-tranche operation and aims to stimulate
reforms in the following areas:
*  In the Enterprise Sector: (a) accelerating state-owned enterprise (SOE) privatization across a
wide spectrum of sectors; (b) enforcing hard budget constraints on remaining SOEs through
the closure of big loss-makers (i.e. mines); and (c) implementing an action plan to stimulate
private sector development and streamline the business environment.
*  In the Financial Sector: (a) gradually raising the soundness of the Romanian banking system;
(b) ensuring that state banks are properly restructured as a pre-requisite for their
privatization; (c) ensuring that NBR put into place the regulations that will improve the
overall soundness of the banking system at large; and (d) further developing the government
securities market.
*  In the Social Sector: reforms in both enterprise and financial sectors will be addressed by.
measures designed to strengthen the social safety net through: (a) rationalizing an income
support program for displaced workers; (b) ensuring that an adequate budget is in place for
such a purpose.
v



Also, to strengthen the implementation of the reform program, a new Private Sector Institutional
Building Loan is being prepared. A mining project is being prepared to support mine closures
undertaken by the FESAL.
15.    The key lessons learned are presented in paragraphs 16 and 17 below.
16.    Project Objectives. The objectives of the FESAL program were appropriately set and
remain valid. The program properly focused on taking care of financial and economic
fundamentals, in particular price and trade liberalization; enterprise and bank privatization; the
restoration of fiscal balance by targeting loss-making SOEs; the removal of obstacles to the
emergence of new private firms; and the development of adequate regulatory, accounting, and
supervisory instruments to create a sound banking system and a capital market.
17.    Project Design. The main flaws were as follows:
(a)    The FESAL tried to include too many areas of reform in a single operation. The
initial FESAL was a massive operation to be disbursed in four portions over a
period of two years and included 27 conditions for disbursement. The revised
program was even more complex, as it sought to achieve the most difficult
enforcement of a hard budget constraint on loss-making SOEs, which had
previously evaded the restrictions. As a result, an additional 41 conditions for
disbursement were introduced. Recommendation: Future adjustment operations
should focus on one area of reform5; should be much simpler and shorter (one-
year horizon); and should be disbursed in one or two tranches at the most;
(b)    Many of the conditions were based on processes (e.g., design and
implementation of plans or mechanisms; production of reports) or on outcomes
that were subjective and difficult to measure (e.g., improved enterprise cash flow
or "substantial progress achieved..."). As a result, monitoring the
implementation required considerable allocation of resources, staff time, and
travel. Recommendation: Conditions should be based on a limited number of
significant and easily verifiable outcomes and results.
(c)    There was insufficient Government ownership, delivery capacity and control of
program implementation, especially with the revised program of 1997. Except in
1996, when the Minister of Finance personally took the lead in monitoring the
implementation of the program, the Romanian Government has not been
appropriately represented. For instance, the Bank FESAL team never worked
alongside a single Romanian counterpart team despite the Bank's efforts to
persuade the Government to create such a team. The responsibility of the design
and the implementation of the program were divided among too many
ministries6, organizations, and agencies7. To permit resumption of the IMF SBA,
5      However, the links between macroeconomic stability, enterprise sector reform, and financial
sector reform must be maintained. These links can be maintained by processing several separate operations
simultaneously, but without systematically stopping disbursement of one because of difficulties in meeting
conditions in another.
6      Prime Minister, Finance, Reformn, Industry, Transport.
vi



the revised 1997 program was quickly negotiated with a newly elected and
inexperienced Government who did not have a sufficient understanding of what
it was committing itself to. As a result, the Bank may have been too prescriptive,
the resulting program may have been too ambitious, and the FESAL team may
have micro-managed the implementation of the program.
Recommendation: Set up a high level counterpart group to design and monitor
implementation of such operations. Build up country ownership of the program.
Ensure that it can be realistically implemented.
(d)    Romanian institutional capabilities were overestimated and proved too weak for
the scope of the task. This became particularly acute in the areas of policy
design; enterprise and bank privatization; monitoring of SOE financial
performance and discipline; SOE governance; bank supervision; and bank
restructuring.
Recommendation: Ensure that institutional capabilities are adequately built up,
preferably before project preparation, or at least during project implementation.
Technical assistance (TA) and training should be provided, either under specific
Bank loans8 or by other donors. This was done very successfully when the
Romanian capital market was created.
(e)    The legal and regulatory framework and the Court system were inadequate to
sustain implementation of the program. This became particularly obvious in the
area of enterprise and bank privatization; enterprise and bank liquidation; and
utility regulation. Implementation of the program was delayed considerably by
constant changes in privatization legislation and regulations; difficulties in
liquidating bankrupt firms and banks; excessive interference by the Court of
Accounts; and problems resulting from uncertainties about land ownership and
the extent of the public domain. The Court system was ineffective in applying
the bankruptcy law and could not be relied upon to facilitate implementation of
the program.
Recommendation: A thorough assessment of the legal, regulatory, and judicial
system should be performed early during project preparation. Passage of
essential laws and regulations should be a component of the program. The
judicial infrastructure should be strengthened either through a specific Bank loan
or by other donors.
(f)    Though the 1997 Cabinet initially appeared strongly committed to a deep and
fast reform, there was no campaign to build up support for the structural reform
program with parliamentarians, civil servants, the press, and the public at large.
Without such a campaign, the FESAL may have appeared (alongside the IMF
SBA) as a painful exercise forced upon Romania by international organizations.
NBR; State-Ownership Fund (SOF); Private Ownership Funds (POFs); National Agency for
Privatization (NAP); Romanian Development Agency (RDA); Agency for Restructuring (AR); the
Securities Exchange Commission (CNVM under its Romania acronym); Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE).
8      The FESAL team and the Resident Mission did provide a huge amount of TA. However, this was
not properly budgeted for and was sometimes delivered in an untimely and uncoordinated manner.
vii



Recommendation: Efforts should be made to explain the rationale behind a
complex adjustment operation such as the FESAL to the media, politicians, and
civil servants. A systematic public relations campaign should be built into the
program.
(g)    Other, more specific, design issues were identified:
(i)    privatization targets are useful indicators. However, they should be
based on the percentage of state-owned assets actually transferred to
private ownership and control. Effective sale of a specific enterprise
should not be a condition;
(ii)   loss and payment arrears reductions are the most painful and difficult
results to achieve because they may have a severe social impact.
However, measures in this area are unavoidable. Targets should not be
enterprise-specific (e.g., list of enterprises to be liquidated), nor should
they be based on hypothetical and hard to measure loss/arrears reduction
targets. The emphasis should be placed on enforcement of a hard budget
constraint and divestiture of state-ownership in troubled sectors (through
privatization or liquidation); and
(iii)   presentation of legislation to the Parliament by the Government is not
sufficient. It may remain stalled in Parliament and/or the output may not
be satisfactory. L,oan approval should be contingent on the enactment of
laws satisfactory to the Bank (this must be specified at negotiation).
18.    Conclusions: Throughout this project, the Bank has supported a critical phase of the
transition reform program. In recognizing the rapidly evolving country situation, the Bank and
Borrower worked collaboratively throughout implementation to achieve the development
objectives. The project was supervised at regular intervals and the Government was actively
involved in discussing the progress made and results achieved. The program might have
achieved better results with a more realistic assessment by the Bank of the feasible pace of
implementation. The Borrower demonstrated a strong commitment to the objectives of the
program, but its implementation capacity was unexpectedly weak. This was due to the
multiplicity of implementing ministries and agencies; the lack of effective coordination at a
sufficiently senior level by way of a strong counterpart group; and the inadequacy of the legal
and regulatory framework and the judicial system.
viii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3975-0, 1, 2-RO)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
19.   The Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL) of US$280 million was
an adjustment operation to support the financial and enterprise sector reform program of the
Government and of the National Bank of Romania (NBR). The Loan was appraised in October
1995 and approved by the Board on January 18, 1996. The loan agreement was signed on
January 19, 1998 and the loan was made effective on February 29, 1996. The first portion and
the floating portion of US$60 million and US$40 million equivalent, respectively, were disbursed
upon effectiveness. The second portion of US$80 million was disbursed on June 12 and 17,
1997, respectively (approval was on June 6, 1997). The closing date of the loan was extended
once, from December 31, 1997 to April 30, 1998. The FESAL was closed on April 30, 1998.
The third portion of US$100 million equivalent was not disbursed.
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
20.   The reform program supported by the FESAL was designed to build upon and
complement the reforms that the Government and the NBR started in 1990 under a World Bank
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL). Preparation of the FESAL started in 1992 at a time when the
Romanian economy was suffering from major dislocations. Between 1989 and 1993, the
economy contracted by 32 percent-industrial output declined by 54 percent-as a result of the
collapse of the CMEA, the Gulf crisis, and the turmoil in Yugoslavia. Romania's initial attempts
at stabilizing the economy in 1991 and 1992 were ineffectual. Inflation remained high.
Implementation problems and fiscal and credit policies, including weak financial discipline in
state-owned enterprises (SOEs), played a major role in creating macro-imbalances. However, a
major fiscal adjustment took place in 1993 and 1994, and macro-stabilization was broadly
achieved by the end of 1994: fiscal deficits were limited to 2 percent of GDP; inflation fell to 25
percent; and growth had recovered to 3.9 percent. The Government had demonstrated a strong
and sustained commitment to stabilizing the economy. This effort was supported by the IMF
through a stand-by arrangement (SBA) approved in May 1994.
21.   Important successes had also been achieved in structural reform. As a result of the 1991
land reform.program, 80 percent of land became privately owned. Housing stock was largely
privatized. A majority of SOEs were corporatized. Progress was also made in price and trade
liberalization. A VAT was introduced. The social safety net was strengthened. The energy,
transport, telecommunication, and social sectors were supported by Bank loans.
22.   However, major structural issues remained, including:
(a)    Enterprise and bank privatization: 6,300 commercial companies (CCs) and
approximately 400 non-corporatized regies autonomes (RAs), representing close



to 60 percent of output and employment, were state-owned. The five major
commercial banks and the savings bank were also state-owned;
(b)    The chronic losses of SOEs in metallurgy, mining, energy, petrochemicals,
transport, mechanical, and agro-processing industries: It was estimated that, on a
cash flow basis, the SOE sector generated an aggregate negative operating cash
flow of 6 percent of GDP in 1993;
(c)    The generally weak financial discipline of the SOE sector: Aggregate payment
arrears in the economy were estimated at 27 percent and 23 percent of GDP in
1992 and 1993, respectively;
(d)    The deteriorating quality of banks' portfolios as a result of the accumulation of
payment arrears and non-performing loans to industry and agriculture: In
particular, Banca Agricola was extensively used as an instrument to channel
subsidized credits -- mostly funded by the NBR -- to agriculture. Other state-
owned commercial banks (SOCBs) continued to finance loss-making SOEs,
despite a build-up in loan repayment arrears;
(e)   inadequate supervisory and enforcement capabilities of the NBR;
(f)   inadequate bank accounting and auditing standards; and
(g)   the absence of a capital market.
23.   These structural issues needed to be addressed promptly to avoid a potential threat to the
still fragile macroeconomic stability. A first Government program, supported by the FESAL, was
designed during 1992 to 1995 to address these outstanding structural issues. After much internal
debate, an integrated approach was adopted that would focus on issues affecting both the
enterprise sector and the financial sector. During that 3-year period, the program kept changing
as the Government struggled to complete implementation of the SAL and to meet the conditions
of an SBA agreed upon with the IMF. Also, several of the proposed measures were
implemented - in particular in the financial sector - before the appraisal of the loan. This led to
continuous redrafting of the program. At the same time, considerable TA was provided by the
Bank team. Although this was useful, it also delayed the preparation of the FESAL. Eventually,
the program was finalized during the second half of 1995. The loan was appraised in October
1995 and taken to the Board in January 1996, more than three years after its identification. The
program supported by the FESAL outlined the following key objectives:
The Enterprise Sector:
(a)    Accelerating SOE privatization, including a mass privatization program (MPP)
which was the cornerstone of the program;
(b)    Enforcing hard budget constraints on remaining SOEs. The major loss-makers
were placed in a special surveillance program, in which their management was
2



required to restore financial viability and negotiate debt rescheduling agreements
with their creditors, or else they would face liquidation;
(c)    Implementing an action plan to stimulate private sector development;
The Financial Sector
(a)    Gradually raising the soundness of the banking system by:
(i)    Requiring banks to establish adequate loan-loss provisions for their
impaired loan portfolios;
(ii)    Phasing in the collateralization of the NBR refinancing;
(iii)   Strengthening the supervisory and enforcement capacity of the NBR;
(iv)   Enhancing competition and the role of the private sector in the banking
system by privatizing banks;
(b)    Limiting the recapitalization of banks by the state;
(c)    Introducing a deposit insurance scheme for individual depositors; and
(d)    Developing the capital market with the opening of the Bucharest Stock Exchange
(BSE) and the creation of an over-the-counter market, the RASDAQ.
24.    After a promising start, the program floundered around mid-1996 as the Government's
attention shifted toward the presidential and legislative elections, which took place in October
1996. In particular, privatization of banks and enterprises slowed down, except for the mass
privatization program (MPP), which went ahead successfully; utility tariffs were frozen, thereby
increasing losses in the utilities sector and arrears in the enterprise sector; and financial discipline
was not enforced. Socially painful or politically sensitive-measures were avoided.
25.    The opposition parties won both the presidential and the legislative elections. A new
Government came to power in December 1996 allegedly committed to undertake deep and fast
reforms. In January 1997, the Bank was asked to design an ambitious reform program. This
revised and deepened program was finalized in February 1998 and, per the request of the
Government, its enterprise and financial sector reform components were incorporated into a
revised FESAL program. The overall objectives of the program remained the same. However, it
was more wide-ranging and rigorous than the initial program. New to the program were the
following:
Microeconomic Framework and Enterprise Sector
(a)    A strong push toward completing price and trade liberalization, including the
foreign trade regime so that most internal price controls, export bans, and quotas
can be removed;
3



(b)    The removal of limits on the offered and reserve prices for the sale of shares at
auction, in an effort to facilitate a speedier sale of shares of small and medium-
sized SOEs;
(c)    Detailed privatization targets by methods applied (auction, IPO, sale through
investment banks) to ensure that the sale of shares of all categories of enterprises
would accelerate;
(d)    New measures to restore financial discipline and reduce losses. The failed
surveillance regime was abolished. New emphasis was placed on forcing
delinquent firms to pay their debts to the budget and to the utilities;
(e)    Adjustment of tariffs to ensure that utilities would reduce their losses. At the
same time, these utilities were to present restructuring plans, including reductions
in their labor costs;
(f)    A specific focus on loss-making mines (which had been overlooked in the initial
program), including passage of a new Mining Law to. enable their privatization;
increase of the price of mtining products to world levels to reduce their losses; a
drastic program of loss-reduction, including closure of non-viable mines;
(g)    The corporatization of the RAs, to be transformed into CCs, as a first step toward
their privatization; and
(h)    The liquidation or closure of a group of 42 large loss-making CCs.
In the Financial Sector
(i)    The effective privatization of the Romanian Bank for Development (RBD) and
of Banc Post;
(j)    The liquidation of two bankrupt private banks (Dacia Felix and Credit Bank);
(k)    The restructuring of Banca Agricola;
(I)    Improvement of banks' accounting systems and tax treatment, which would
allow banks to stop accruing interest on overdue loans and reverse previously
accrued unpaid interest;
(m)   Clarification of the status and activities of the CEC and of cooperative banks;
and
(n)    Measures to strengthen the CNVM; improve financial information disclosure on
capital markets; and facilitate their access by foreign investors, including
portfolio investors.
26.    Many of these measures required significant changes in the legal framework.
Amendments to the legislation governing tariff and price regulations, enterprise and bank
privatization, severance payments, the Banking Law, the Statute governing the NBR, the Law
4



governing the Savings Bank (CEC), the Accounting Law, the Profits Tax Law, the Law
governing Credit Cooperatives, the Law governing Securities Markets, the Trade Act, and the
Foreign Investment Law were required. New laws were also required, in particular a Mining
Law, a Bank Insolvency Law, and a Collateral Law.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
The Enterprise Sector
27.    The FESAL program was a success in some areas and a failure in others. The following
is a status report of implementation of the program as of March 30, 1999.
28.   Microeconomic framework. The performance criteria agreed upon with the IMF were
not met and the SBA lapsed in May 1998, with two out of five tranches unreleased. The first
review of the program was completed in September 1997. The program subsequently went off
track and no further disbursements were made. Several performance criteria were missed by a
wide margin in both September 1997 and March 1998. Under IMF conditionalities, major areas
of shortfall were under the structural adjustment component of the program.
29.   Price and trade liberalization. This is one of the most successful components of the
program. A limited number of industrial prices (mostly mining and petroleum products) were to
remain regulated until the end of June 1998. The Office of Competition had designed and
implemented a satisfactory mechanism for monthly adjustments of regulated utility tariffs. All
export bans and quotas have been removed, except for timber.
30.   Enterprise privatization. This was the key objective of the program, and it was achieved
per a slightly more lenient definition of privatization transactions than originally agreed upon
under the FESAL. The targets were 3,600 SOEs to be privatized, including at least 500 medium-
sized and 100 large enterprises. These targets were met, as 4,024 SOEs were privatized, of
which 745 were medium-sized and 124 large. (Under the stricter definition of privatization
agreed upon with the Government under the FESAL, only 3,525 CCs would be considered as
privatized, including 125 large, 610 medium, and 2,790 small enterprises.) However, this
represents less than 20 percent of the capital stock owned by the State Ownership Fund (SOF),
and less than 10 percent of the total capital stock of SOEs (i.e., including the RAs)9. It can be
argued that the targets themselves were not ambitious enough; more than eight years after the
demise of the Ceaucescu regime, Romania's industry remains largely dominated by the public
sector.
31.    Under the FESAL program, Romania designed and implemented a mass privatization
program (MPP). Although the program was unduly complicated, it was successfully
implemented. As a result, more than 15 million Romanians became shareholders. However,
despite spreading share ownership widely among the population, the MPP did not succeed in
transferring control of firms to private owners. Voucher investment funds and foreign investors
were not allowed to participate. Only the Private Ownership Funds (POFs) could collect
vouchers and bid for shares on behalf of individuals (they collected less than 15 percent of the
9)     The total equity of RAs includes parcels of land belonging to the public domain, which will be
subtracted from the equity upon their transformation into CCs.
5



total). As a result, the SOF retained control of a majority stake in many SOEs, especially large
enterprises. However, a special provision under the program was the creation of an interim
central share registry that would allow for MPP share registration and endorsement by the
Government. This registry was successfully created. As a result, the managers of SOEs and of
partially privatized firms lost control of share registries, which paved the way for the creation of
the capital market and for future redistribution and concentration of share holdings by allowing
unconstrained share trading among individuals.
32.    In an attempt to accelerate privatization, the Privatization Law was amended during the
first quarter of 1997. At the same time, the revised FESAL program added specific privatization
targets, geared to the different privatization methods. None of these new targets were met. For
example: (i) At least 50 SOEs were to be offered for sale per week, for a total of 2,053; only
1,052 were offered for sale after January 1997, (ii) At least four enterprises were to be offered for
sale through IPO; three were offered, of which two were sold. However, another 26 had been
prepared for sale, (iii) At least 100 large and medium-sized SOEs were to be contracted with
international investment banks for accelerated sale; only 30 were contracted. Negotiations were
underway for another 36. This dismal result is in part due to flaws in the amended Privatization
Law, which did not improve much upon the previous one. In addition, there were excessive
delays in getting this law enacted and in issuing accompanying regulations and norms. Other
attempts at improving the legal framework took place in the last quarter of 1997 and in the first
part of 1998. In all cases, tinkering with the law resulted in slowing down the privatization
process. In essence, there was no significant acceleration of privatization after the change of
Government in December 1996.
33.    Private sector development. This was a fairly minor component of the program and it
was successfully implemented. Equal and unconstrained access to public sector procurement was
guaranteed by law. A simplified procedure for enterprise creation was established, and a nation-
wide network of one-stop centers for enterprise registration was created by the Trade Registry'°.
To prepare this component, a study of the registration process was made. It has since been
complemented by a survey of 404 small businesses to identify the constraints to private sector
development. A new project is being designed to foster growth of small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs) as a follow-up to this component of the FESAL.
34.    Enterprise restructuring and loss-reduction measures. The initial program failed.
Imposing cost-cutting measures and restoring financial discipline among loss-making SOEs
proved to be extremely difficult. Under the initial program, 151 loss-making SOEs were placed
under surveillance"'; of those, 30 CCs had previously been placed in a special isolation program.
These enterprises were to be subjected to hard budget constraints, with restricted access to bank
10     The Trade Registry is managed by the Romanian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The
Chamber worked very closely with the FESAL team -- and is still working -- to improve the business
environment.
On aggregate, they represented around 45 percent of losses and of arrears. Some of the largest
loss-makers -- such as the RAs for coal mining, zinc and lead, precious metals, national television and
radio, road maintenance, irrigation, and the largest refinery (Petromidia) -- were not included in the
surveillance program, upon request of the Government. The group of 151 SOEs included 77 poultry and
pig farms, which were not all large loss-makers, but were added to facilitate monitoring the performance of
the agro-industrial sector and, in particular, the distribution and usage of subsidized credits.
6



credit and Government and SOF support. Their management was expected to design Financial
Recovery Plans (FRPs), indicating how they proposed to reduce losses and payments arrears and
to restore positive operating cash flow. All those SOEs placed under surveillance had to
negotiate conciliation agreements with their banks, the state, and other creditors. Those CCs
placed under surveillance could move out of the program upon: (i) privatization; (ii) re-
establishment of positive cash flow for at least two consecutive quarters, without any further
increase in payment arrears; and (iii) liquidation.
35.    The final objective was that all but 10 CCs (out of a total of 151) should have exited the
surveillance program within the time frame of the FESAL. As of April 30, 1998, 31 were
privatized (21 percent); 33 were in the process of being liquidated (22 percent); 3 were merged
into other companies; and only 10 had achieved positive operating cash flow by mid- 1997 (7
percent). Therefore, only half of the targeted loss-makers met the objectives of the program over
a period of 28 months.
36.    The failure of the surveillance program was acknowledged by the Government and the
Bank in early 1997. It was discontinued in February 1997 and replaced by new measures under
the revised FESAL program. The selection of loss-makers was tightened to include 70 SOEs
accounting for 67 percent of aggregate losses of the sector before operating subsidies. Three sub-
groups were identified, including: (i) 20 utilities accounting for 31 percent of the losses (category
1); (ii) 6 mines, together with the 2 RAs for road and irrigation work, accounting for 28 percent
of the losses (category 2); and (iii) 42 CCs accounting for 8 percent of the losses (category 3).
Objectives were set for each category.
37.   In category I (utilities), tariffs were adjusted to stem the massive losses incurred in the
previous six months'2. This allowed RENEL and ROMGAZ to return to profitability. However,
the railways and most water and heating RAs continue to accumulate losses. Since the closure of
the FESAL, the Government has approved a restructuring plan for RENEL, which would
transform it into a state-owned National Electricity Company. It would be split into several
autonomous components, including energy production, transportation, and retail distribution.
The restructuring and possible privatization of Petrom (the oil exploration company) and Romgaz
(gaz production and distribution) are still being discussed. Therefore, limited success has been
achieved (mostly by increasing tariffs) in reducing the losses of category I utilities. The essential
task of cutting their costs, reducing their bloated labor force, making them more efficient, and
introducing competition in the sector has just started.
38.    In category 2 (including the mines and the two RAs for road and irrigation maintenance),
the price of mining products was raised to world levels. Also, it was agreed that these RAs
would introduce cost reduction measures to reduce their losses by at least 50 percent in real
terms. About 70,000 employees were laid off during the second half of 1997 (40 percent of total
employees). As a result of both price increases and labor reduction, the losses of the mining
sector were reduced by 40 percent in real terms. To facilitate the liquidation of non-viable mines
and the privatization of others, all mines in this category have been or are being transformed into
CCs. They have also spun off auxiliary activities into 28 newly established CCs. A new Mining
12     Most tariffs were frozen in anticipation of the elections. Some utilities, such as RENEL, the
electricity company, were selling below cost price and accumulated considerable losses and payment
arrears.
7



Law, drafted with assistance from the Bank, has been passed. A pilot mine closure project,
financed by a Bank loan, is being implemented to support closure of non-viable mines.
Considering the magnitude of the work accomplished in less than a year in a sector known for its
strong labor militancy, this component of the program may be considered a success.
39.   In category 3 (including 42 large loss-making CCs), the program focused on: (i) the
liquidation of at least 10 CCs; and (ii) the privatization of the others, to eliminate the largest loss-
making CCs. An additional 11 CCs were targeted for closure in August 1997, in agreement with
the IMF. Altogether, the program failed, with only eight enterprises privatized (15 percent) and
11 under liquidation (21 percent). The sales of 13 others were subcontracted to investment
banks.
40.   Overall, the objectives of the enterprise restructuring program have not been achieved, in
particular with respect to utility restructuring and the closure of loss-making CCs. This is due to
the very powerful resistance of labor unions and other vested interests that could not be overcome
because of the lack of political commitment to achieve program objectives. The legal framework
and the judicial system also proved inadequate, in particular in expediting the liquidation of non-
viable firms. The Bankruptcy Law proved hopelessly cumbersome and slow to apply. Most of
the CCs that were eventually liquidated were closed by order of the SOF, as their owner, under
the provisions of the Trade Act. However, the program has been surprisingly successful in the
mining sector, where maximum resistance was expected. This was facilitated by providing
generous redundancy payments to workers who volunteered to resign from these mines.
41.   Restoration offinancial discipline. This component clearly failed. To impose a hard
budget constraint on enterprises placed under surveillance, the initial program placed a cap on the
financial support available from the state, the SOF, and the banks. The caps were too generous;
the enterprises were able to renegotiate their debts with their creditors without undertaking
sufficient cost-cutting measures. To a certain extent, the "jail" became a "hospital" where
enterprises under surveillance had access to the technical support of the newly created Agency
for Restructuring (AR) and to limited financial support (within the agreed caps); enterprises
outside the system did not benefit from thie same facilities. Payment arrears ballooned in real
terms, while they were expected to decrease in nominal terms. The problem was compounded by
the decision of the Government, in the second half of 1996, to freeze utility prices. While in the
previous period, RENEL and ROMGAZ had been functioning as quasi-banks for loss-making
SOEs, and accumulating arrears on their accounts receivable, they started accumulating payment
arrears themselves, thus feeding a spiral of economy-wide payment arrears. By the end of 1996,
aggregate payment arrears had reached 27 percent of GDP (up from 18 percent at the end of
1995).
42.   Under the revised FESAL prograim, a fresh attempt was made to tackle this issue. It also
failed. The revised program targeted payment arrears to the budget and to the two largest
utilities, RENEL and ROMGAZ. The budget was expected to be paid first. Penalties were to be
charged on arrears to RENEL and ROMGAZ. Reduction of supply or interruption of service was
to be ordered in case of nonpayment. These measures were not implemented with the necessary
determination. There were several instances where the electricity supply was discontinued to
delinquent customers, only to be swiftly restored in the face of labor and political opposition. By
April 30, 1998, RENEL's overdue receivables had increased in real terms by 59 percent (from
8



the agreed benchmark level of March 31, 1997) while those of ROMGAZ had decreased by 23
percent"3.
43.   Employment reduction. Romanian SOEs were vastly overstaffed. Therefore, it was
clear that any privatization and restructuring program would likely include some potentially
severe labor retrenchment. To facilitate such action, a US$40 million floating portion was
included in the FESAL, to be disbursed as soon as 40,000 employees would leave the SOE
sector. The target was met even before Board presentation of the loan, and this portion was
immediately disbursed upon effectiveness.
44.    Building on this successful experience, the Government negotiated with the Bank a new
loan in February 1998 to finance severance payments. A new law was passed by the Parliament
establishing eligibility criteria for access to these severance payments. The mechanism was
successfully implemented in late 1997 and resulted in a reduction of approximately 70,000
miners"4. The aftermath of this program may be more problematic; it appears that many workers
who quit did not find suitable alternative employment and may have been expecting the
Government to find them jobs once their benefits terminated.
The Financial Sector
45.   Bank Privatization. The program envisaged the successful privatization of two state-
owned banks, the first (RBD) by second-portion release, and the second (Banc Post) by third-
portion release. Considerable preparatory work for the RBD privatization was undertaken in
1995 and 1996, but the work was suspended pending the passage by Parliament of the Bank
Privatization Law, which only occurred in mid-1997 (after more than two years of discussion and
the submission of innumerable competing drafts). The Government finally selected (in early
1997) Banc Post as the second bank to be privatized. Privatization Commissions for both banks
were appointed in the second half of 1997, chaired by the SOF, and comprising representatives of
the NBR, SOF, and NAP (National Agency For Privatization). Detailed feasibility studies and
evaluations of the two banks were completed by foreign advisors in May/June 1998, and
Government decisions were issued in July 1998 stating how each bank was to be privatized. On
August 7, 1998, the SOF finally offered for sale its shares in RBD and Banc Post requesting bids
from strategic investors by August 27 and 28, 1998, respectively. In December 1998, RBD was
successfully privatized by selling 51 percent of its shares to Societe Generale of France, and in
April 1999 Banc Post was partially privatized. In the case of Banc Post, the second state-owned
bank to be privatized, the initial valuation of the bank by their foreign advisers was USD 220
million. Negotiations with strategic investors were protracted, but on Friday April 2, 1999, the
State Ownership Fund (SOF) finally signed a contract for the sale of 35 percent of Banc Post's
shares to GE Capital and 1 0 percent to Banco Portugues de Investimento (BPI). The SOF
maintains shares of 25 percent. GE Capital and BPI are reported to have paid USD 42.8 million
for their combined stake of 35 percent, valuing Banc Post at around USD 122 million. The
shareholders are committed to investing a further USD 50 million in Banc Post's development.
In addition, IFC and EBRD have made subordinated loans to Banc Post, which are convertible
into equity.
1 3   Payment arrears to RENEL as of April 30, 1998 (Lei 3,400 billion) were twice as large as those of
ROMGAZ (Lei 1,762).
14    Redundancy payments granted the miners amounted to 18 months' wages.
9



46.    Preparations for the Banca Agricola privatization should be timed very carefully. A
phased approach for the BA privatization during 1999/2000 would allow sufficient time for the
new management to restore the bank to financial viability and to implement its institutional
strengthening program, with the assistance of the external advisors appointed in August 1998.
This approach implies that Banca Agricola could be ready for privatization by around
06/30/2000. Finally, serious consideration should now be given to the early preparation of RCB
for privatization in 1999/2000.
47.   The last issue to be addressed concerned the compensation to be paid by the State
Ownership fund (SOF) to the five Financial Investment Companies [SIFs (ex-POF)] for their
minority shareholdings in each bank. This thorny compensation issue was finally resolved in
July 1998 by a protocol signed by the SOF and the SIFs, whereby the SIFs received shares in
ASIROM and ASTRA (two large insurance companies) from SOF, in exchange for their original
shareholdings in RBD and Banc Post, however the SIFs kept additional shares that came from
reinvesting dividends during the period of 1992-1998.
46.   Bank Restructuring. A key objective of the FESAL program was the strengthening of
the banking sector by improved banking supervision, recognition of loan losses, and the
progressive recapitalization of the large banks from retained earnings. During the period 1991 -
1994, virtually all the large banks experienced an improvement in their solvency, although their
capital position remained overstated due to insufficient loan loss provisions. Under the FESAL
program, specific loan loss provisions (5 percent for watch, 20 percent for substandard, 50
percent for doubtful and 100 percent for loss) were made tax-deductible (commencing in 1995
for loans classified as doubtful and loss and in 1996 for the other categories) and the level of tax-
deductible general provisions was raised from 0.5% to 2% of loan assets, thereby giving banks a
strong incentive to recognize the true quality of their loan portfolio. During the period 1996-
1998, many banks continued to consolidate their solvency, despite the higher level of provisions.
However, several banks got into difficulties, notably three private banks now under court
bankruptcy procedures (Dacia Felix Bank., Credit Bank, and Columna Bank) and two state-owned
banks that received massive financial assistance from the government (Banca Agricola and
Bancorex). One of them (Banca Agricola') entered a complex restructuring exercise
progressively improving its operational and financial management. However, the financial
condition of Bancorex remains a serious concern, as the bank accounts for roughly 25 percent of
total bank assets and 50 percent of total foreign exchange-denominated loans extended by the
banking sector, and it is a major borrower of funds from the inter-bank market.
47.   The disposal of Dacia Felix, Credit Bank, and Columna Bank has been delayed, owing to
several successful legal challenges under the old Banking Law of 1991, Bankruptcy Law, and
other delaying tactics by the management and shareholders of these three banks. These
maneuvers have hamstrung the efforts of the NBR to remove licenses and commence their
orderly liquidation. The new Banking Law, passed in 1998, will strengthen the NBR's ability to
deal with problem banks in the future as regulator and major creditor. In the cases of Dacia Felix
and Credit Bank, the NBR initiated bankrjptcy procedures as creditor and suspended the licenses
of the two banks as regulator. For both banks, the Supreme Court ruled against the NBR's
decision and suspended the removal of licenses pending final decisions on bankruptcy procedures
by the Court of Appeals.
48.   In the case of Bancorex, the balance sheet was partially repaired in mid-1997 by the
issuance of treasury bonds in exchange for bad loans contracted by the now abolished Romanian
10



Oil Company (ROC) to the tune of around US$500 million equivalent. However, political
considerations delayed the implementation of a comprehensive restructuring plan for the bank.
Under the terms of the Emergency Ordinance providing for the bail-out of the refineries (as final
beneficiaries of the loans taken by ROC) defaulting on the loans, MOF assumed the loss to the
public debt. Bancorex undertook to act as an agent for the MOF, keeping evidence of the debts
in off-balance-sheet accounts, and reimbursing MOF if and when the refineries made payments.
In effect, loans to ROC were covered by promissory notes issued by the refineries and vested
with executory power. In case of default, Bancorex had to implement a solution that proved
politically unacceptable, through court-forced liquidation if necessary. The very complicated
structure of the financial arrangement provided for in the Emergency Ordinance and the above-
mentioned security structure of the non-performing loans led the Banking Committee of the
Senate to request an opinion from the Court of Accounts on the legality of the bail-out. The
Court of Accounts gave a negative opinion, considering that the MOF lacked a legal basis for the
arrangement, and it is not clear now whether Bancorex will be required to return the money to the
MOF, or another solution will be sought. However, the recapitalization exercise described above
is only one facet of the problems Bancorex has had to deal with; the more complicated, deep-
rooted problems remain virtually untouched. A new management team was appointed in April
1998, which undertook to prepare and implement a restructuring plan. A tender was issued in
June 1998 to select an investment bank to act as a restructuring advisor for Bancorex
(commencing August 1998). Under the Bank's new structural adjustment operation, Bancorex
will be liquidated.
49.   Banking Legislation. One of the notable successes of the revised FESAL program was
the approval by the Romanian Parliament in 1998 of three improved banking laws:
(i) a new Banking Law (#58/1998) to replace the ]Law on Banks and Banking Activity of
1991;
(ii) a new Statute of the NBR (#101/1998) to replace the 1991 statute; and
(iii) Law #83/1998 on Bank Insolvency.
This package of new laws was drafted with technical assistance from the IMF and the World
Bank. Among many improvements, these new laws (i) strengthen the overall supervisory powers
of the NBR (including its powers to carry out special supervision and administration of troubled
banks); (ii) require banks to be audited by an independent external auditor; and (iii) establish the
principle that credit contracts and associated collateral are executory titles, and (iv) explicitly
provide the minimum qualifications for those who manage banks.
50.   Financial Sector Policy. The FESAL program required the NBR's refinancing of banks
to be improved by introducing full collateralization by treasury bills. The growth in the stock of
government paper held by banks and the gradual scaling down of NBR's refinancing activities
enabled this objective to be met satisfactorily. Henceforth, all new refinancing by NBR must be
100% collateralized by government obligations except in exceptional cases where emergency
liquidity support is provided to banks undergoing financial rehabilitation.
51.   The regulatory framework was considerably upgraded; new regulations governing loan
classification and provisioning, minimum solvency ratio, connected lending, licensing, risk
exposure limits, and foreign exchange exposure limits were issued by the NBR. These
11



regulations will be further improved following the implementation of the newly promulgated
banking legislation.
52.   Banking Sector Infrastructure. 'NBR runs an effective (although paper-based)
payments system, which will be further upgraded by automation of large-value payments to
include real time settlement, development of a communication platform between NBR and the
commercial banks, and, in the medium term, automation of small-value (high volume) payments.
A Credit Information Bureau was established by the NBR, of which the component for Payment
Incidents is fully operational; the other component (Bank Risk Positions) is in an advanced stage
of development.
53.   NBR Prudential Regulations and Supervision. Over the last few years, the NBR has
introduced a comprehensive set of prudential regulations that are now being modified and
improved in light of the new banking legislation. During the FESAL, the NBR Supervision
Department submitted comprehensive reports on its activities to the Bank every six months.
While on-site inspection is gradually improving, the Supervision Department has failed to react
effectively and quickly to the several troubled banks. Part of the explanation is that the previous
banking laws (dating back to 1991) did not give sufficient powers to the NBR, a shortcoming that
should be remedied by the new banking laws approved by Parliament in 1998. Another reason is
that the Supervision Department continues to suffer from understaffing, high turnover, and
insufficient training. These problems are compounded by the fragmentation of the bank
supervision function among various departments of the NBR. The pending reorganization of the
NBR on a regional basis should afford a good opportunity to strengthen bank supervision by
mobilizing staff more effectively. The staff members outside Bucharest are presently employed
by the Control Department, which presently performs duties commonly associated with bank
supervision in market economies. Nonetheless, the ability of the NBR's bank supervision staff to
perform the most basic risk-based supervision, and to obtain an accurate picture of the financial
condition of banks, is questionable. In particular, the Supervision Department needs to become
much more effective when dealing with clistressed banks that require fundamental restructuring.
54.   Bank Accounting Reform. On January 1, 1998, the Romanian banking system adopted a
new chart of accounts conforming to International Accounting Standards (IAS). This change was
mandated by the detailed Instruction, dated August 1, 1997, issued jointly by the NBR (#344) and
the MOF (#1418). It appeared at that timre that the state of readiness of the banks was mixed.
Some were well advanced in modifying their IT systems to cope with the conversion to IAS, but
others were lagging. Similarly, it was not clear if the NBR and the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
themselves were fully prepared for the change, as evidenced by the considerable delay in issuing
the detailed instructions for preparing the 12/31/97 accounts. Nonetheless, the conversion was
implemented without major disruptions. However, the international business community's
perception and evaluation of the Romanian banking system raises the issue of whether the
conversion was done properly in all cases.
55    Government Obligations. The original FESAL program included a condition that the
Government should confirm that it was current in its payment obligations to banks. The reason
for its inclusion was that in 1993 and 1994, the Government was overdue in its obligations to
banks under Law 7/92 and under several L/Cs to finance energy imports, which had a negative
effect on several banks' liquidity. By the time the FESAL agreement was signed in December
1995, the arrears had been paid and the CGovernment has remained current ever since.
12



56.   Credit Cooperatives. The current legislation governing credit cooperatives is highly
deficient in many respects. Credit Cooperatives are established under a special law and
effectively lack any supervision. Furthermore, these Credit Cooperatives can be set up with
minimal capital and no solvency requirements. These so called "popular banks" are not members
of the cooperative network, and are free of NBR regulations and supervision. This poses a threat
to the financial system. Despite the Bank's efforts to modernize the legal and regulatory
framework, progress is unsatisfactory. Lack of consensus among concerned parties and limited
political will has generated considerable delay in reaching an agreement on a new legal
framework.
57.   Deposit Insurance and the Role of CEC. In 1996, a well-designed deposit insurance
scheme, funded by contributions from the banks, was introduced. This scheme has the explicit
backing of the state and guarantees the deposits of individuals up to a modest amount per.
individual per bank. It covered all deposits in Romanian commercial banks, but not the Savings
Bank (CEC), whose deposits are still 100% guaranteed by the state without limit. The deposit
insurance scheme was introduced after the effective failure of Dacia Felix Bank and Credit Bank,
where depositors of these two banks were reimbursed separately from budgetary funds in
accordance with two special Laws passed by Parliament.
58.    Regarding the Savings Bank (CEC), the World Bank recommended to the Government
that they adopt one of following two models:
(i) Convert CEC into a "narrow" bank whose deposit liabilities would remain 100%
guaranteed by the state, but whose assets would be limited to holdings of Government
obligations and a limited number of other low-risk assets; or
(ii) Convert CEC into a full-service savings bank, operating alongside the
commercial banks, subject to full NBR supervision, but removing the state guarantee of
its deposits and requiring the institution to join the deposit insurance scheme.
The Government chose a modified version of option (ii), submitting to Parliament a draft law to
convert CEC into a full-service savings bank but maintaining the state guarantee of its deposits
for the time being. The draft law was approved by the Senate on October 21, 1997.
59.    Capital Markets. The original FESAL program included two conditions related to the
development of capital markets in Romania:
(i) the opening of the Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE), with technical assistance
received from the Canadian Government; and
(ii) the establishment of an effective market to register and trade shares of companies
privatized in the Mass Privatization Program (MPP).
These objectives were both met successfully by the establishment of the BSE and the RASDAQ
(an electronic quote-driven market modeled after the NASDAQ, with technical assistance from
USAID). However, although the market organization and institutional arrangements are modern
and operated in a professional manner, the capital markets in Romania remain very thin. The
financial crises that hit the emerging markets of Southeast Asia and Russia, and the severe
13



economic problems of Romania, which remain largely unsolved, induced many foreign
institutional investors (mainly Hedge and Regional Funds) to pull out.
C.    Implementation and Major Factors Affecting the Project
60.   The FESAL program was a success in some areas and a failure in others. The
Government did not meet its commitment regarding maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic framework. By the end of March 1998, the performance criteria agreed upon
with the IMF were not met, and the SBA was terminated in April 1998, with two out of five
tranches uireleased. In the enterprise sector, the privatization targets -- the cornerstone of the
program -- and the conditions for private sector development were met. However, the
surveillance program failed: SOEs continued to accumulate unacceptably large losses and
payment arrears. In the financial sector, significant progress was made and loan conditions were
met in areas such as collateralization of NBR refinancing credits; mandatory external audit of
banks; creation of a deposit insurance scheme; reform of the payments system; and the successful
opening of the BSE and the RASDAQ. However, the program failed to privatize two state-
owned banks. Furthermore, the two largest banks, Bancorex and Banca Agricola (BA), faced
major difficulties during that period and were bailed out by the state budget, in defiance of one of
the conditions of the loan, due to the insufficient progress and enforcement of loan-loss
provisioning, prudential regulations, NBR supervision, and the new chart of accounts for banks.
61.   The new Government, which came to power in late 1996, asked the Bank to revise the
program supported by the FESAL to accelerate the pace of reform. The revised program, agreed
upon with the Bank in February 1997, was more wide-ranging and ambitious than the original
program. Several components were added to the original set. Regarding macroeconomic
policies, further (and decisive) progress was made in price and trade liberalization. In the
enterprise sector, privatization did not accelerate significantly, owing to major delays caused by
changes in the legal and normative framework. The special surveillance program was
terminated, and new approaches were implemented to reduce losses and improve financial
discipline. More attention was given to the RAs (utilities and mines), which were recognized as
being at the core of losses and arrears in the economy. Progress was achieved in the initial
corporatization of utilities; setting up adequate tariff levels and adjustment mechanisms; closing
loss-making mines; liquidating loss-making CCs; and providing social protection for employees
made redundant. However, the program also failed to address the problem adequately. SOE
losses and payment arrears remain a severe burden on the economy. In the financial sector,
further progress was made to implement the restructuring plan of Banca Agricola; to pass
adequate legislation for dealing with insolvent banks; and to improve legislation governing the
supervision of capital markets. However, other components of the program were not
implemented as planned: the privatization of two banks was initiated but not concluded; the
design of comprehensive collateral legislation started late; no decision was made regarding
changes in the accounting rules for treating overdue interest; and no progress was made to restrict
the activities and sources of funding of credit cooperatives.
62.   As real progress was made in implementing the revised program during the first part of
1997, the Board agreed to grant five waivers of the original conditions (as a tougher program had
actually been implemented) and approved the disbursement of the US$80 million second portion
of the FESAL on June 6, 1997. The memorandum "Release of Second Portion - Waiver of
conditions" is attached in Appendix 5 of this report. However, the reform program then
14



floundered in the second half of 1997 and in the first quarter of 1998, due to political difficulties
within the governing coalition and a loss of commitment to reform. The FESAL closing date was
extended for four months from December 31, 1997 to April 30, 1998, in a last attempt at reviving
the program. However, little progress was made in meeting the Third Portion conditions during
the extension period. The Government then agreed with the Bank to allow the FESAL to lapse
on April 30, 1998. The last portion of US$100 million was not disbursed.
D.    Project Sustainability
63.   In spite of the failure to implement the last part of the program, the FESAL has had a
considerable and positive impact on the structural reform of Romania. Most of the measures
taken, especially on price and trade liberalization, SOE privatization, and banking and capital
market regulation, are irreversible. This is expected to assist immeasurably with future project
implementation, particularly as significant institutional capacity has been built up during the
course of the FESAL and as recognition of the need for structural reform to reverse the economic
decline grows. The Government has now recognized that the success of reform lies with three
major issues: privatization (of banks, enterprises and utilities); elimination of nonviable loss-
making firms; and development of a sound banking system. Also, a much more comprehensive
legal framework has been enacted, providing a measure of empowerment to authorities for
prudential oversight, which was lacking at the outset of the FESAL. A major effort at institution
building has also been undertaken under the FESAL, reinforced by a greater mandate to ensure
compliance with recently introduced regulatory norms. This framework will remain in place and
will facilitate implementation of subsequent operations.
E.    Bank Performance
64.   The Bank's performance was responsive, flexible, and pragmatic as the needs of the time
dictated. Throughout this project, the Bank supported a critical phase of the transition reform
program. The policy advice surrounding the design and implementation of this program helped
to crystallize Government thinking and the conversion of principles into programs and actions.
In recognizing the rapidly evolving country situation, the Bank and Borrower worked
collaboratively throughout implementation to ensure that program development objectives were
met, and that pragmatic solutions to implementation problems were usually found. The project
was supervised at regular intervals, and the Government was actively involved in discussing the
progress made and results achieved. The program might have achieved better results had the
Bank's implementation schedule been more realistic. The design of the project was flawed by
including too many areas of reform in a single operation with numerous conditions that were
process- or mechanism-oriented. However, the objectives were appropriately set and remain
valid. The Bank overestimated the management and implementation capacity of the borrower.
The FESAL team and the Resident Mission provided considerable technical assistance to
overcome institutional weaknesses, but these were not systematically organized and budgeted to
adequately strengthen this critical area of deficiency. Too many ministries were involved without
a mechanism for high-level planning, co-ordination, and implementation. The legal and
regulatory framework and the judicial system proved to be inadequate to sustain implementation
of the program. Early recognition of these problems and remedial actions would have enhanced
the success of the program.
15



F.    Borrower Performance
65.    The borrower made sustained and committed efforts to implement the program, but was
impeded in achieving various objectives due to inadequacies in staffing and organization, weak
or ineffective laws and regulations, and a multiplicity of responsible ministries uncoordinated by
a high level agency. The borrower successfully completed several of the project components
such as Price and Trade Liberalization, Enterprise Privatization, Mass Privatization Program,
Private Sector Development, Development of Capital Markets, and Employment Reduction. The
borrower missed by a wide margin several performance criteria agreed upon with the IMF
relating to the Macroeconomic Framework. Deficiencies in Privatization laws resulted in
slowing down privatization. Reform of Credit Cooperatives was not successful because of
deficient laws that still need to be remedied. Bank restructuring was delayed by successful
challenges under the old Banking and Bankruptcy law; however, improved laws were enacted in
1998. Enterprise Restructuring was considerably hampered by powerful resistance from labor
unions and other vested interests. The exception was the mining sector, where maximum
resistance from the labor unions had been expected. Measures to achieve financial discipline in
utilities were not implemented with the necessary determination in the face of labor and political
opposition. Borrower performance would have been significantly better if attention had been
paid to building support for the structural reform program with politicians, civil servants, the
press, and the public at large. Because of the lack of any public awareness campaign, the FESAL
may have appeared (along with the IMF SBA) as a painful exercise forced upon Romania by
international organizations.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
66.    The project had significant development outcomes. Under the FESAL, pricing and trade
have mostly been liberalized; more than 4,000 SOEs were privatized; and utilities are being
corporatized and prepared for privatization (e.g., a minority equity share of the
telecommunications company has already been privatized). Obstacles to new enterprise creation
were removed, and more than 300,000 enterprises were registered during that period. In spite of
achieving mixed results, the program initiated a significant downsizing of loss-making
enterprises and a reduction in their labor force, particularly in mines'5. This was accompanied by
measures to cushion the social impact of such measures. The program was instrumental in
supporting the creation of a capital market, in close cooperation with other donors. The legal
regulations to strengthen the prudential, supervisory, and enforcement capabilities of the NBR
were promulgated. Other important banking instruments were created (payments system; deposit
insurance; banks' chart of accounts; credit risk information bureau). Major pieces of legislation
were passed (e.g., privatization law; mining law; foreign investment law; law establishing
eligibility criteria for severance payments; bankruptcy law; revised banking law; bank
privatization law; bank insolvency law; law governing the savings bank; and securities exchange
law). Belatedly, privatization of state banks began in late 1998/early 1999 (BRD and Bancpost).
67.    The FESAL provided an umbrella for a vast array of technical assistance and training
programs, delivered either by the Bank or by other donors, to build up local institutional
Around 100,000 miners left during the second part of 1997.
16



capabilities and train national experts. The FESAL program became the policy anchor of
bilateral support, in particular from the European Union (EU) and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID). Close and effective cooperation was achieved between the
Bank and other donors.
H.    Future Operations
68.   The FESAL was allowed to lapse on April 30, 1998, because it had become apparent that
the remainder of the program as designed would not be implemented in a reasonably short span
of time. The program needed to be overhauled, in particular to reflect the views and program of
the new Government elected in April 1998, and to incorporate some of the lessons learned. The
Government and the Bank have updated the structural reform program and have agreed on a new
operation. This new operation "Private Sector Adjustment Loan, RO-PE-64853" was negotiated
with the Government on April 30th, 1999, and will be presented to the Board on June 10, 1999.
This project will be a two-tranche operation and aims to stimulate reforms in the following areas:
(a) In the Enterprise Sector: (a) accelerating state-owned enterprise (SOE) privatization across a
wide spectrum of sectors; (b) enforcing hard budget constraints on remaining SOEs through
the closure of big loss-makers (i.e., mines); and (c) implementing an action plan to stimulate
private sector development and streamline the business environment.
(b) In the Financial Sector: (a) gradually raising the soundness of the Romanian banking system;
(b) ensuring that state banks are properly restructured as a pre-requisite for their
privatization; (c) ensuring that NBR put into place the regulations that will improve the
overall soundness of the banking system at large; and (d) further developing the government
securities market.
(c) In the Social Sector: reforms in both enterprise and financial sectors will be addressed by
measures designed to strengthen the social safety net through: a) rationalizing an income
support program for displaced workers; b) ensuring that an adequate budget is in place for
such purposes.
Also, to strengthen the implementation of the reform program, a new Private Sector Institutional
Building Loan is being prepared. A mining project is being prepared to support mine closures
undertaken by the FESAL.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
69.   Project Objectives. FESAL objectives were appropriately set and remain valid. The
FESAL program properly focused on taking care of financial and economic fundamentals, in
particular price and trade liberalization; enterprise and bank privatization; restoring fiscal
balance by targeting loss-making SOEs; removing obstacles to the emergence of new private
firms; and developing adequate regulatory, accounting, and supervisory instruments to create a
sound banking system and a capital market.
70.   Project Design. There were several project design flaws:
(a)    The FESAL tried to include too many areas of reform in a single operation. The
initial FESAL was a "Christmas tree" to be disbursed in four portions over a
17



period of two years, including 27 conditions for disbursement. The revised
FESAL was even more complex, as it sought to achieve the most difficult
enforcement of a hard budget constraint on loss-making enterprises. As a result,
an additional 41 conditions for disbursement were introduced.
Recommendation: future adjustment operations should focus on a more limited
number of areas of reform'6, and should be much simpler and shorter (one year
horizon), with a maximun of two tranches."7
(b)    Many conditions were based on processes (e.g., design and implementation of
plans or mechanisms; production of reports) or on outcomes that were subjective
or difficult to measure (e.g., improved enterprise cash flow; "substantial progress
achieved..."). As a result, monitoring implementation required considerable
allocation of resources, including staff time and travel. Recommendation:
conditions should be based on a limited number of significant and easily
verifiable outcomes and r esults.
(c)    There was insufficient Government ownership, delivery capacity, and control of
the implementation of the program, especially of the revised program of 1997.
Except for 1996, when the Minister of Finance clearly took the lead in
monitoring implementation of the program, the Romanian Government was not
appropriately represented. For instance, the Bank FESAL team never worked
alongside a single Romanian counterpart team. The responsibility of the design
and the implementation of the program were divided among too many
ministries", organizations, and agencies'9. To permit resumption of the IMF
SBA, the revised 1997 program was quickly negotiated with a newly elected and
inexperienced Government that had little understanding of the scope of
commitment and of the required delivery capacity. As a result, the Bank may
have been too directive, the resulting program may have been too ambitious, and
the FESAL team may have had a tendency to micro-manage the implementation
of the program".
Recommendation: set up a high-level counterpart group to design and monitor
implementation of such operations. Build up country ownership of the program.
Ensure that it can be realistically implemented.
16     However, the links between macroeconomic stability, enterprise sector reform, and financial
sector reform have to be maintained. These links can be maintained by processing several separate
operations simultaneously, but without systematically stopping disbursement of one because of difficulties
in meeting conditions in another.
17     Whenever pressure was exercised on payment of one cost item (e.g., bank debts), arrears would
emerge on another (e.g., taxes, energy or other suppliers). It should be noted that the requirement for no
increases in arrears to energy suppliers, insisted upon by the IMF for resumption of its SBA, was never
respected.
IS     Prime Minister, Finance, Reform, Industry, Transport.
19     NBR; State-Ownership Fund (SOF):; Private Ownership Funds (POFs); National Agency for
Privatization (NAP); Romanian Development Agency (RDA); Agency for Restructuring (AR); the
Securities Exchange Commission (CNVM under its Romania acronym); Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE).
20 Moreover, too many Bank staff were involved in the design and implementation, each with their
preferred views. Recommendation: the responsibility of the Team Leader should be clearly stated.
18



(d)    Romanian institutional capabilities were overestimated and proved to be too
weak for the scope of the task. This became particularly clear in the areas of
policy design; enterprise and bank privatization; monitoring of SOE financial
performance and discipline; SOE governance; bank supervision; and bank
restructuring.
Recommendation: ensure that institutional capabilities are adequately built up,
preferably before project preparation, or at least during project implementation.
Technical assistance (TA) and training should be provided, either under specific
Bank loans2" or by other donors. This was done very successfully when the
Romanian capital market was created.
(e)    The legal and regulatory framework and the court system were inadequate to
sustain implementation of the program. This became particularly acute in the
area of enterprise and bank privatization; enterprise and bank liquidation; and
utility regulation. Implementation of the program was considerably delayed due
to constant changes in privatization legislation and regulations; difficulties in
liquidating bankrupt firms and banks; excessive interference of the Court of
Accounts; and problems resulting from uncertainties about land ownership and
the extent of the public domain. The court system proved to be ineffective in
applying the Bankruptcy Law and could not be relied upon to facilitate
implementation of the program. Recommendation: a thorough assessment of the
legal, regulatory, and judicial system should be performed early during project
preparation. Passage of essential laws and regulations should be a component of
the program. The judicial infrastructure should be strengthened either through a
specific Bank loan or by other donors.
(f)    Though the 1997 Cabinet initially appeared strongly committed to a deep and
fast reform, not enough attention was paid to building up public support for the
structural reform program with parliamentarians, civil servants, the media, and
the public at large. Without a public awareness campaign, the FESAL may have
appeared (along with the IMF SBA) as a painful exercise forced upon Romania
by international organizations.
Recommendation: Efforts should be made to explain the rationale behind the
FESAL to the media, politicians, and civil servants,. A systematic public
relations campaign should be built into the program.
(g)    Other, more specific design issues are:
(i)    Privatization targets are useful indicators. However, they should be
based on the percentage of state-owned assets actually transferred to
private ownership and control;
(ii)   Loss and payment arrears reductions are the most painful and difficult
results to achieve as they may have a severe social impact. However,
21     The FESAL team and the Resident Mission did provide an inordinate amount of TA. However,
this was not properly budgeted for and was sometimes delivered in an untimely and uncoordinated manner.
19



measures in this area are unavoidable. Targets should not be enterprise-
specific (e.g., list of enterprises to be liquidated), nor should they be
based on hypothetical and hard to measure loss/arrears reduction targets.
The emphasis should be placed on enforcement of a hard budget
constraint, divestiture of state ownership in troubled sectors through
privatization or liquidation;
(iii) Presentation of legislation to the Parliament by the Government is not
sufficient. It may remain stalled in Parliament and/or the output may not
be satisfactory. L,oan approval should be contingent on the enactment of
laws satisfactory to the Bank (this must be specified at negotiation).
20



Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation    (Not Applicable)
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits        (Not Applicable)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements    (Not Applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
21



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial    Partial      Negliible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                 [1           II                             E l
Sector Policies                a]                            l oEa
Financial Objectives           El            0              0l
Institutional Development      aE                          El              El
Physical Objectives            n             []            E l3
Poverty Reduction                     El    Fl [                           [
Gender Issues                  El            El            Ii
Other Social Objectives        El                            l             [1  a
Environmental Objectives                     ol             o              El
Public Sector Management       E             El                            El-
Private Sector                 El           I              El
Development
Other (specify)                              F1            U               E
B. Project Sustainability       Likely                Unlikely              Uncertain
(/)                   (v')                   (s/)
F[E                                         El
22



Highly
C. Bank Performance           satisfactory          Satisfactory           Deficient
(1)                  (1)                   (1)
Identification                                                            L i  
Preparation Assistance        E                    F1
Appraisal                     Li                     L3                   n
Supervision                    3                    g                     n
Highly
D. Borrower Performance       satisfactory          Satisfactory           Deficient
($)                  (V)                   (v/)
Preparation                                                               Li F 
Implementation                                      [ ]                   [g
Covenant Compliance            w                    LI
Operation (if applicable)     Li                                          iii
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome      satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(/)          ($)            (V)            (V)
23   Li                            Li
23



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/credit title      Purpose          Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. Structural       To support                  1992         Closed
Adjustment Loan     Government program
(SAL)               of macro-economic
stabilizatiorn
2. Petroleum Sector   To restructure and        1994         Active
Rehabilitation      modernize the
petroleum and gas
sector
3. Industrial       Credit line to finance      1994         Active. Restructured
Development Project  investment and                          to target SME lending
(IDP)               exports
4. Power Sector     To restructure and          1995         Active
Rehabilitation      modernize the power
sector
5. Railways         To restructure and          1996         Active
Rehabilitation      modernize the
railways
6. Bucharest Water   To restructure and         1996         Active
Supply              modernize water
distribution .in
Bucharest
7. Agriculture Sector  To support the           1997         Active
Adjustment Loan     program of structural
(ASAL)              adjustment in
agriculture
8. Social Protection    To finance severance    1997         Closed
Adjustment          payments and labor
redeployment
9.                  To help privatize           1998         Active
Telecommunication   telecommunications
Following operations
1. Mining Sector    Pilot project to            1998         Being implemented.
Restructuring       finance mine closures.
24



2. Private Sector   Support to                  1999         Board - June 10
Institutional Building   development of the
Loan (PIBL)         SME sector
3. Private Sector   To support program          1999         Board - June1O
Adjustment Loan     of structural
(PSAL)              adjustment in the
enterprise, utilities
and mining, and
financial sectors
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                          n.a.
Preparation                                                      April 1992
Appraisal                                                     October 13, 1994
Negotiations                                                 September 18 to 25,
1995
Letter of Development Policy                                 November 30, 1995
Board Presentation                                             January 18, 1996
Signing                                                       January 19, 1996
Effectiveness                                                 February 29, 1996
First Portion Release                                           March 1, 1996
Floating Portion Release                                        March 1, 1996
Second Portion Release                                        June 12-17, 1997
Project Completion                      December 31, 1997       April 30, 1998
Loan Closing                            December 31, 1997       April 30, 1998
25



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate         100     100      100
Actual                     100    80.0       0
Actual as % of estimate     0      80.0     0*
Date of final                      June
disbursement                       12-17
* Balance was canceled on April 30, 1998
26



Table 5:    Key Indicators for Program Implementation
(Policy Matrix)
OBJECTIVES           ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE   ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                       ASSESSMENT
BOARD PRESENTATION            BEFORE SECOND
__________________          __________________                 TRANCHE
MACROECONOMIC POLICY
* Establish and maintain    Maintenance of a            Amendments to Law 21/96 to  A successful component of the
appropriate economic     macroeconomic framework     be submitted by the        program. A limited number of
framework in support of    consistent with the program on  Government to the Parliament industrial prices (mostly mining and
consistent trade, pricing,    the basis of indicators agreed   to limit tariff and price  petroleum products) were to remain
monetary, and budgetary    upon by the Government, the   regulations (primarily from    regulated until the end June 1998. The
policy.                  Bank. Progress achieved by the  utilities) to a short list of  Office of Competition has designed
Government in carrying out the  goods and services, as agreed  and implemented a mechanism for
*  To liberalize prices and  program should also be     upon with the Bank. Producer monthly adjustments of regulated
trade of all goods and   considered,                 prices of crude oil and natural  utility tariffs; and all export bans and
services currently subject to                        gas to be explicitly excluded   quotas have been removed, except for
competition.                                         from the list. Crude oil price  timber.
to be negotiable directly by
*  The foreign trade regime to                          the refineries and to their
be extensively liberalized,                          users with domestic producers
made stable, predictable,                            and importers.
and applied equally to all
economic agents.                                     All export bans and quotas to
be removed, except for goods
that export may have a
negative environmental
impact (e.g. timber). List to
be agreed upon with the Bank.
27



ACCELERATION OF PRIVATIZATION
Privatization is the priority   Completion of 1,500     Adoption of changes required  This objective has been successfully
of the enterprise reform  cumulative privatizations since  in the legal and regulatory  achieved. The initial targets for
program. It will be sharply  the enactment of Law 58,1991.  framework, including GD 887  privatization were exceeded.
accelerated to ensure swift                             and Ordinance 39/95, to allow  However, this represents less than 20
transfer of enterprise    Issue of an ordinance,        for the sale of shares at    percent of the capital stock owned by
control and of full       acceptable to the Bank,       auction to the highest bidder,  the State Ownership Fund (SOF) and
ownership to the private  establishing deferred payment   without a minimum price    less than 10 percent of the total capital
sector. There will be no  facilities for the sale of shares   limit and sale conditions,  stock of SOEs. Romania's industry
enterprise excluded from  still held by the SOF after   based on a methodology       remains largely dominated by the
the program, except for a    exchange of coupons for shares  agreed upon with the Bank.    public sector.
small number of regulated   under the MPP.
activities.                                             After passage of the above, at
Shares and assets will be  Formalization and publication   least (50) enterprises offered
sold the highest bidder or    of standard contracts, agreed    for sale at auction per week.
the best offer, with no   upon with the Bank, for the
minimum price limit.      cash sale of shares discounted   At least (4) enterprises offered
by more that 30%.            for sale at Initial Public
Offering (IPO).
Launching the program of
installment sales of 40% of the  All enterprises of category 3
shares of the CCs in the MPP.   (as defined under Law 55/95)
to be offered for sale, and at
least (100) of those, for
which strategic investors have
expressed an interest, to be
contracted with international
investment advisors for
accelerated sale.
28



Completion of at least 2,750
cumulative privatizations,
since the enactment of Law
58/91, including 400 medium-
sized and 50 large enterprises.
This number to include whole
enterprises only, as
incorporated as of January 1,
1992.
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
*  Constraints to private sector  Effective activation of an  Establishment of a simplified   A minor component of the program; it
development will be        interim share registry allowing   procedure for enterprise  was successfully implemented. Equal
removed. Specific          for MPP share registration and   creation as agreed upon with   and unconstrained access to public
programs will be designed   endorsement by the           the Bank.                     sector procurement was guaranteed by
to foster enterprise and job   government of the design of a                           law. A simplified procedure for
creation.                  system (acceptable to the Bank)                             enterprise creation was established and
for the registration and trading                            a nation-wide network of one-stop
of shares.                                                 centers for enterprise registration has
been created by the Trade Registry.
As a result of a survey conducted of
404 small businesses to identify the
constraints to private sector
development, a new project is being
designed to foster growth of small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) as a
follow-up of this component of the
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   F E S A L .
29



ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING AND FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE
*  The priorities are to     Submission to the Bank of    Ordinance 13/95 to be       Under the initial program, a sample of
drastically reduce losses in  acceptable FRPs for the core    repealed.            151 loss-making SOEs were placed
the enterprise sector, is a    group of 13 CCs.                                    under surveillance, of which 30 CCs
priority, to reduce                                    Guidelines to be adopted to    had previously been placed in a
budgetary subsidies, to                                govern in detail the licensing,  special isolation program.
eliminate the quasi-fiscal                             selection, and pay of
deficit, and to enforce                                liquidators under Law 31/95    The final objective was that all but 10
financial discipline on the                            and Law 64/65. They should,  CCs out of 151 should have exited the
basis of market principles.                            at a minimum:               surveillance program within the time
Establishment of the legal   (i) allow companies as well   frame of the FESAL. As of April 30,
*  Accelerated privatization of framework for the surveillance  as individuals to be named as  1998: 31 were privatized (21 percent);
loss-making SOEs will be   regime (Ordinance 13/95)    liquidators;                33 were -- or are in the process of
the key to achieving loss-                             (ii) allow foreign as well as    being -- liquidated (22 percent); 3
reduction and financial                                domestic persons to be named  were merged into other companies;
discipline.                                            as liquidators;             and only 10 had achieved a positive
(iii) lay out the principles and  operating cash flow by mid-1997 (7
ranges for pay structure of  percent).
liquidators; and
(iv) lay out the principles for  Only half of the targeted loss-makers
disposing of assets, including   met the objective of the program, over
open auctions when possible.  a period of 28 months.
Completion of 7 privatizations                           Failure of the surveillance program
*  To eliminate losses among   and liquidations out of the                            was acknowledged and discontinued
utilities, their tariffs will be  group of CCs placed in                           in 1997 and replaced by a new set of
raised and maintained, with  isolation under GD 301/93.                            actions to include 70 SOEs, 20
monthly adjustment, at an                                                          utilities, 6 mines, 2 RAs for roads and
adequate level to cover                                                            irrigation work, and 42 CCs. These
30



costs. Utilities will                                                                  were grouped in three categories.
discontinue servicing non-
paying corporate customers.
I - Utilities (category 1)   Limited success was achieved in
*  To eliminate losses among                                                              reducing losses of utilities, mostly by
non-utility SOEs, those                                  List of such utilities to be  increasing tariffs. The essential task
delinquent in their                                      agreed upon with the Bank.    of cutting down costs, reducing the
payments will be declared                                                             labor force, improving efficiencies and
insolvent. The non-viable                                Initial adjustment in the tariffs  introducing competition in this sector
enterprises, or parts of                                 of these utilities, including  has just begun.
enterprises, will be closed.                             natural gas for households, as
The others will be either                                agreed upon with the Bank
closed under Law 31/95 or                                 (NB: this adjustment to be
taken through insolvency                                  made not later than March 1,
proceedings, as organized                                 1997).
under Law 64/95. The
Court system will be                                     Initiation of monthly
reinforced to increase its                                adjustments according to the
effectiveness in handling                                 exchange rate or the CPI, as
these cases.                                              agreed upon for each product,
one month after the initial
adjustment.
From the base date of January
1, 1997, no increase in
payment arrears in nominal
terms due to any utility in
category 1.
Government Decision to be
31



issued requiring each utility in
category 1 to take appropriate
action to collect accounts
receivable overdue by more
that 60 days, including
reduction of supply or
interruption of service.
Penalty interest to be charged
by each utility in category 1
on accounts receivable
overdue by more than 30 days
at the NBR weekly auction
rate plus 10%.
As a result of both sales price
2 - Large loss-making Regies  increases and labor reduction, the
Autonomes (category 2)    losses of the mining sector were
reduced by 40 percent in real terms.
List of these Regies      To facilitate the liquidation of non-
Autonomes (RAs) to be     viable mines and the privatization of
agreed with the Bank.     the others, all mines in this category
have been or are transformed into
The Government to submit to  CCs. They have also spun off
the Parliament legal changes   auxiliary activities into 28 newly
new laws required to permit   established CCs. A new Mining Law,
the conversion of mining RAs  drafted with assistance from the Bank,
into CCs.                 has been passed. A pilot mine closure
project, financed by a Bank loan, is
Draft Mining Law to be    under implementation to support
32



submitted by the Govermnent  closure of non-viable mines. The road
to the Parliament.         maintenance RA has been split into 3
CCs, while the irrigation RA is still
Increase of the price of   being reorganized. Considering the
mining products to world   magnitude of the work accomplished
level.                     in less than a year in a sector known
for its strong labor military, this
A plan of action to be     component may be considered a
presented by the government  success.
indicating how losses of
category 2 firmns will be
reduced by at least 50% in
real terms in 1997. This plan
to include, inter alia, actions
on: (i) prices; (ii) wage rates;
(iii) number of employees;
and (iv) closure of non-viable
units.
Upon conversion of RAs into
CCs, privatization of these
CCs, as a whole or in part, to
be initiated.
The program aimed at liquidating 21
3 - Other large loss-makers    and privatizing the remaining 42 large
(category 3)               loss making CCs. This objective was
not achieved as only 8 categories were
List of these enterprises to be  privatized and 11 were under
agreed with the Bank not to   liquidation. The sale of 13 others
33



include enterprises of the  were subcontracted to investment
agricultural sector, which will  banks.
be dealt with under the
ASAL.                       Overall, the objectives of the
enterprise restructuring program were
Closure of operations and   not achieved. This was due to very
initiation of liquidation of at   powerful resistance of labor unions
least 5 enterprises in this  and of various vested interests that
category, accounting for at    could not be overcome because of lack
least 5% of losses of the SOE   of political commitment. The legal
sector in 1996 (or a longer  framework and the judicial system
period, to be agreed upon with  also proved inadequate.
the Bank).
Accelerated privatization of
all other CCs in category 3 or
parts of these, to have been
initiated.
BANK PRIVATIZATION
Restructuring and         Specific loan-loss provisions    Passage by Parliament of a  During the period 1991 to 1994,
privatization of state-owned  by banks to be rendered tax  Bank Privatization Law,   virtually all the large banks
commercial banks, which,   deductible according to an   agreed upon with the Bank,    experienced an improvement in their
inter alia, will reduce the  agreed upon phased-in schedule  which does not impose undue  solvency, although their capital
share of the state in the  during 1995 and 1996 as      restrictions on participation    position remained overstated owing to
banking sector.           follows: (a) during 1995, for    by fit and proper banking  insufficient loan loss provisions.
loans in the loss (100%       institutions in the capital of
34



*  Privatization of two state-   provision) and doubtful (50%    the state banks to be  During the period 1996-98 many
owned banks.              provision) categories; and (b)   privatized.             banks continued to consolidate their
during 1996 and subsequent                              solvency, despite the higher level of
*  A bank will be considered   years, for the following   Revision of the RBD         provisions. Several got into
as privatized when at least   categories of impaired credits   privatization plan, in  difficulties, notably three private
51% of its shares have been  (i.e., loss 100% provision),  agreement with the Bank, and  banks now under court bankruptcy
transferred either to entities  doubtful (50% provision), and   consistent with the new Bank   procedures (Dacia Felix Bank, Credit
which are 90% in private   sub-standard (20% provision).   Privatization Law when  Bank and Columna Bank) and two
ownership, or to private  NBR to issue a circular      enacted. Implementation     state-owned banks which received
individuals.              requiring banks to undertake    initiated.               massive financial assistance from the
full loan-loss provisioning and                          government (Banca Agricola and
requiring them to retain 50% of  Finalization of a privatization  Bancorex).
the net profit after tax until they  action plan for the second
have reached the minimum     bank to be privatized, to be    A report on the feasibility study and
level of capital adequacy.   agreed upon with the Bank,    evaluation conducted was submitted to
and approved by its General   the Government, which resulted in a
Establishment of WODs in     Assembly of Shareholders and  Government Decision issued for Phase
each of the major banks.    the NBR. Such privatization   II and consortium reappointed to (i)
plan to include an offer for    sell the banks (BancPost and RBD) to
Finalization of a privatization    sale, listing on the BSE, and   reputable foreign financial institutions
action plan for RBD agreed   sale of at least 10% of its  with an interest in taking a strategic
with the Bank and approved by  shares by public offering, over stake in these banks and (ii) to prepare
the stakeholders, NBR, and the  and above those held by the    a public offering of at least 20% of the
Government. Such a           SIFs and the bank's         bank's interest.
privatization plan to include an  employees.
offer for sale, listing on the
BSE and sale of at least 10% of
its shares by public offering,
over and above those held by
35



the POFs and its employees.   |                       l
BANK RESTRUCTURING AND DEBT RECOVERY
Finalize closure/liquidation  Specific loan-loss provisions by The Government to take all   NBR's efforts to remove licenses and
or rehabilitation of Dacia    banks to be rendered tax  necessary steps to ensure that  commence orderly liquidation of
Felix Bank and Credit Bank  deductible according to an  the closure/liquidation of  Dacia Felix, Credit Bank and Columna
on a sound financial and  agreed upon phase-in schedule  Dacia Felix Bank and Credit   Bank has been hampered by several
institutional footing.   during 1995 and 1996 as     Bank is undertaken as quickly  successful legal challenges
follows: (a) during 1995 for    as possible. No additional
loans in the loss (100%     refinancing to be granted  The new Banking Law passed in 1998
provision) and doubtful (50%    meanwhile to either bank, and  will strengthen the NBR's hand in
provision) categories; and (b)   100% reserve requirement to  dealing with problem banks in the
during 1996 and subsequent    be applied to any new    future as regulator and major creditor.
years-for the following     deposits taken by the two  In the case of Dacia Felix and C redit
categories of impaired credits   banks pending finalization of  Bank, the NBR initiated bankruptcy
(i.e., loss (100% provision),    the closure/liquidation or  procedures.
doubtful (50% provision) and   rehabilitation process.  Both banks have their current accounts
sub-standard (20% provision).                          Bt  ak  aetercretacut
with the NBR blocked. In the case of
*  Restructure Banca Agricola  NBR to issue a circular  A restructuring plan for the    Columna Bank, the SOF initiated
in a timely fashion to deal   requiring banks to undertake    Banca Agricola, agreed upon   bankruptcy procedures, but NBR has
not only with the stock of   full loan-loss provisioning and   with the Bank, to be prepared  not suspended the license; and the
bad debts in its present loan  requiring them to retain 50% of by the NBR, Ministry of  Court has not yet ruled on the case.
portfolio, but also to put the  the net profit after tax until they  Finance, and the State  A tender was issued in June 1998 to
restructured bank on a   have reached the minimum    Ownership Fund.            select an investment bank to act as
solid institutional and  level of capital adequacy.                             restructuring advisor to Bancorex
financial footing so that it                                                              v
can conduct its future   Establishment of WODs in                               (commencing August, 1998). First
.   .        .                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~concrete measures to tackle the Bank's
operations in a sound and    each of the major banks.                           serious difficulties are being taken.
prudent manner.
36



Finalization of privatization  Submission of government to
To develop a proper legal   action plan for RBD agreed  the Parliament of either (i) a
framework for dealing with  upon with the Bank and   new Bank Insolvency Law; or  A notable success of the revised
insolvent banks; to include   approved by the shareholders,  (ii) an additional chapter  FESAL program was the approval by
restructuring and/or a well-  NBR, and the Government.    covering bank insolvency in   the Romania parliament in 1998 of
defined process of orderly   Such a privatization plan to  Law #33/1991.        three improved banking laws: (i) a
liquidation.             include an offer for sale, listing                     new Banking Law (#58/1998) to
on the BSE, and sale of at least                       substitute the Law on Banks and
10% of its shares by public                            Banking Activity of 1991; (ii) a new
offering, over and above those                         Statute of the NBR (#101/1998) to
held by the POPs and its                               replace the 1991 statute; and (iii) Law
employees.                                             #83/1998 on Bank Insolvency.
*  Modify and strengthen the   An on-going commitment from                         This package of new laws was drafted
laws relating to bank   the government that there will                          with technical assistance from the IMF
contracts, collateral, and  be no recapitalization of banks                     and the World Bank.
bankruptcy to ensure that in  by the state budget, by the                        These new laws strengthen the overall
case of non-payment, banks  NBR, or from extra-budgetary                         supervisory powers of the NBR
can execute expeditiously   funds except immediately prior                       (including its powers to carry out
their loan contacts with  to privatization or as needed is                      special supervision and administration
borrowers.               a bank is being intervened by                           of troubled banks); require banks to be
NBR.                                               audited by an independent external
auditor; establish the principle that
credit contracts and associated
collateral are executory titles and
explicitly provide the minimum
qualifications for those who manage
banks.
37



NBR PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS & SUPERVISION
*  To ensure that banks     NBR to issue a circular for  Submission of government to   The NBR has introduced a
comply with NBR          phasing in the collateralization  the Parliament of amendments  comprehensive set of prudential
prudential regulations and   of its refinancing credits to  to Laws #33/1991 and  regulations which are now being
to enable NBR to apply   banks, as agreed upon with the  34/1991, agreed upon with the  modified and further improved in
sanctions and penalties for   World Bank.             Bank, which strengthen the  light of the new banking legislation.
non-compliance.                                       regulatory, enforcement, and
sanctioning powers of the
NBR.                        During the life of FESAL the NBR
Supervision Department submitted
Improv theoNBR to have attempted to carry  Submission to the Bank of a    comprehensive reports on its
*  Improve the off-site     out annual on-site inspections   report from the NBR     activities to the Bank every six
suirveillance and on-site  of all banks. Such inspections   demonstrating the compliance   months. While on-site inspection
supervision of banks by the  to include, where appropriate, a  of the banks under NBR's  gradually improved, the Supervision
NBR.                     critical assessment of the   supervision with the circulars   Department has failed to react
banks; latest semi-annual   and prudential regulations on   effectively and in a timely fashion to
portfolio reviews, and the  loan-loss provisioning, capital  the several troubled banks.
associated loan-loss        adequacy, and the distribution
provisioning recommended.   of net profits; and describing    Supervision Department continues to
the measures taken by NBR   suffer from under-staffing, high
against non-complying banks.  turnover, and insufficient training and
experience.
The staffing of the Supervision
Department of NBR shall be
increased to its full
complement of approximately
70 staff.
38



NBR to submit to the Bank a
report demonstrating that on-
site inspections of banks are
being carried out.
NBR to issue a regulation
requiring mandatory
independent external audits of
banks.
* Limit banks' utilization of                                                       NBR provided two successive semi-
refinancing credits from                             Submission to the Bank of a    annual reports demonstrating that
NBR without suitable                                 report prepared by the NBR  credits to commercial banks were
collateral.                                          demonstrating progress      collateralized by Treasury bills in
satisfactory to the Bank in  accordance with the agreed upon
implementing Regulation 3/95  phase-in schedule.
issued by NBR in respect of
collateralization of NBR's
refinancing credits to banks.
DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND THE ROLE OF CEC
* Reduce CEC's share of                                 Endorsement by the         In 1996, a well-designed deposit
deposit-taking among the                             Government and NBR of a    insurance scheme was introduced
population, and provide a                            detailed proposal for a     covering all Romanian commercial
level playing field for                              deposit insurance scheme    loans but not the Savings Bank (CEC),
deposit-taking by all banks.                         agreed upon with the Bank.    whose deposits are still 100%
guaranteed by the state without limit.
* To improve the legal                                  Submission by the           The deposit insurance scheme was
framework for the Savings                            government to the Parliamnent  introduced after the effective failure of
Bank (CEC) by converting                             of amendments to Law        Dacia Felix Bank and Credit Bank,
it into a joint-stock                                66/1996 which would:        where depositors of these two banks
39



commercial bank, and by                             (a) convert CEC into a     were reimbursed separately from
requiring CEC to join the                               commercial company;    budgetary funds in accordance with
Deposit Insurance Fund and                          (b) render CEC explicitly    two special Laws passed by the
to submit to full NBR                                   subject to the licensing,    Parliament. The first expected payout
supervision and prudential                             regulations, and        from the Deposit Insurance Fund will
regulation.                                            supervision of the NBR;   be to depositors of the Columna Bank.
(c) integrate CEC with Law
33/1991 and all other  Regarding the Savings Bank (CEC),
legislation concerning  the World Bank recommended to the
banks and commercial   Government that they adopt one of
companies.             following two models:
(i) convert CEC into a "narrow" bank
whose deposit liabilities would remain
100% guaranteed by the state, but
whose assets would be limited to
holdings of Government obligations
and a limited number of other low-risk
assets; or
(ii) convert CEC into a full-service
savings bank, operating alongside the
commercial banks, subject to full NBR
supervision, but removing the state
guarantee of its deposits and requiring
the institution to join the deposit
insurance scheme.
A draft law of a modified version of
_________ _I_ _option (ii) was submitted to
40



Parliament to convert CEC into a full-
service savings bank but maintaining
the state guarantee of its deposits for
the time being. The draft law was
approved by the Senate on October 21,
1997, and approved by the Banking
Commission of the Chamber of
Deputies shortly thereafter, but its
submission to the plenary session of
the Chamber of Deputies has been
delayed.
Because of the singularly important
role the Savings Bank (CEC) can
eventually play in financing the
development of a true consumer
society in Romania, the Bank notes
with approval: (a) the restructuring,
strategic planning, and training
assistance being provided to the CEC
by the Deutsche Sparkasse; (b)
management's commitment to an
external audit of the 1997 and 1998
accounts by a recognized international
accounting firm, due to be selected by
tender shortly; and (c) the cautious
approach to expanding the bank's
lending activities espoused by the
newly appointed senior management.
41



However, it is important that, given
CEC's limited experience in granting
credit, any new lending programs
targeted towards individuals and
SMEs should be introduced gradually,
and only to the extent that the staff in
the lending branches selected for the
pilot exercise have been fully trained
in sound and prudent lending
procedures.
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS FOR BANKS
* Implement sound,                                     Issuance of a regulation by the A new chart of accounts conforming
internationally recognized,                         NBR introducing a uniform    to International Accounting Standards
accounting standards in                              chart of accounts for banks, in  (IAS) was adopted on January 1, 1998.
enterprises and banks,                               accordance with           This change was mandated by the
supported by competent                              internationally accepted   detailed Instruction dated August 1,
accounting and auditing                              accounting standards.      1997 issued jointly by the NBR (#344)
staff.                                                                         and the MOF (#1418).
The Government to submit to
* Modify the accounting rules                           the Parliament the necessary   The state of readiness of the banks,
for treating overdue                                 amendments to the         including the NBR and the Ministry of
interest.                                            Accounting Law, the Profit   Finance (MOF), to cope with the
Tax law, and NBR's        conversion to IAS was mixed. Some
regulations for the accounting  were well advanced in modifying their
system to be used by banks,   IT systems, but others were lagging.
requiring banks to (a) stop  This was evidenced by the
accruing interest to the Profit  considerable delay that occurred in
42



and Loss Statement on loans   issuing the detailed instructions for
which are overdue 90 days or  preparing the 12/31/97 accounts.
more (or to make a 100%
provision for such interest on   An issue with strong relevancy to the
a monthly basis); and (b) to   international business community's
reverse out (or provision  perception and evaluation of the
100%) previously accrued   Romanian banking system is whether
interest on such loans.    the conversion was in all cases done
properly. Lack of a verification
mechanism would caution that victory
not be declared on this front, or at
least not yet.
GOVERNMENT OBLIGATIONS
*  Settlement of overdue                                 The Government to issue a    The original FESAL program included
Government obligations to                             report stating that it is current  a condition that the Government
banks.                                               in all its payment obligations  should confirm that it was current in
to the banks, including    its payment obligation to banks. The
principal and interest due to   reason for its inclusion was that in
banks under Law 7/92 and   1993 and 1994, the Government was
Ordinance 1/94.            overdue in its obligations to banks
under Law 7/92 and under several
L/Cs to finance energy imports, which
had a negative effect on several banks'
liquidity. By the time the FESAL
agreement was signed in December
1995, the arrears had been paid and
the Government has remained current
ever since.
43



l l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  l T    
CREDIT COOPERATIVES
*  Restrict the activities and                           Submission of the           The current legislation governing
the funding sources of                                Govermnent to the           credit cooperatives is highly deficient
credit cooperatives; subject                          Parliament of amendments to  in many respects. Credit Cooperatives
them to suitable prudential                           Law 106/1996 agreed upon    are established under a special law and
regulations; and place them                           with the Bank which would:   effectively lack any supervision.
under the supervision of                              (a) remove the name "bank"   Furthermore, these Credit
NBR or another suitable                               from any credit cooperatives;  Cooperatives can be set up with
regulatory authority.                                 (b) limit authorized activities   minimal capital and no solvency
to members only; (c) limit    requirements. These so called
membership to individuals;    "popular banks" are not members of
(d) restrict authorized    the cooperative network and are free
activities to acquiring funds    of NBR regulations and supervision.
from members' contributions  This poses a threat to the financial
and granting small loans to    system. Despite the Bank's efforts to
members for purposes       achieve a modernization of the legal
specified in the amended   and regulatory framework, progress is
Law; (e) prohibit credit   unsatisfactory. Lack of consensus
cooperatives from borrowing   among concerned parties and limited
from outside sources; (f) limit  political will has generated
lending to any individual or    considerable delay in reaching
his relatives to 5% of a credit  agreement on a new legal framework.
cooperative" total assets; and   A draft law, satisfactory to the Bank,
(g) subject credit cooperatives  was prepared with technical assistance
to the supervision of NBR or  from the Swiss Government and
another competent authority   forwarded to the Romanian authorities
with the mandate to issue and  in May 1998, but so far the law has
enforce prudential regulations. not been amended.
44



CAPITAL MARKETS
*  Improve supervision of the   Opening of the Bucharest Stock  Government to submit to  The original FESAL program included
capital markets, access by   Exchange                Parliament for approval    two conditions related to the
foreign investors, and the                           amendments to Law 52/1994,  development of capital markets in
disclosure requirements of                           establishing CNVM's         Romania: (i) the opening of the
firms quoted on the                                  supervisory and law        Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE),
Bucharest Stock Exchange                             enforcement authority over    with technical assistance received
(BSE) and the RASDAQ                                 the BSE and the RASDAQ     from the Canadian Government; and
market.                                              market, and requiring      (ii) the establishment of an effective
publicly-held companies to    market to register and trade shares of
use licensed shareholders'    companies privatized in the Mass
registries and to disclose  Privatization Program (MPP).
periodic financial information.
These objectives were both met
Government to submit for   successfully by the establishment of
Parliament for approval an    the BSE and the RASDAQ.
amendment to Law 31/1990
subjecting publicly-held   However, although the market
companies to the provisions   organization and institutional
of Law 52/1994.            arrangements are modern and operated
in a professional manner, the capital
Government to submit to    markets in Romania remain very thin
Parliament's approval an   due to the financial crises in the
amendment to the Foreign   emerging markets of Southeast Asia
Investment Law, repealing the  and Russia, the severe economic
requirement of prior approval  problems of Romania, and the pull-out
of foreign portfolio       of many foreign institutional investors
investment by the Romanian   (mainly Hedge and Regional Funds).
Development Agency, and    Consequently, both the value of traded
stocks and the volume of transactions
45



appropriate changes to the  has fallen sharply recently to the
NBR foreign exchange        lowest values since the opening of the
regulations (including, inter   two regulated markets, BSE and
alia, measures to control  RASDAQ.
money laundering), in order to
ensure foreign investors the
prompt repatriation of
principal, interest, and
dividends in respect of bonds
and equities traded in the
Romanian capital markets.
46



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                           Purpose as defined at  Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Study of the Registration  To identify the constraints to  C  Based on this study a
Process                      Private sector development.        new project is being
designed to foster
growth of small and
medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs)
2. Feasibility Study and    To develop a comprehensive  C       Following the study
Evaluation of Bank          strategy for the privatization      Government
Privatization                of the BankPost and RBD            Decisions were
banks.                            issued on how each
bank was to be
privatized.
3. Diagnostic Review of Banca  To identify and prioritize  C    A diagnostic review
Agricola                    the most urgent measures for        of Banca Agricola
restructuring.                     was undertaken by
Bank of Ireland
International
Consultants (BIIC) in
December 1997. The
institutional
development plan has
been implemented by
BA managers with
the long-term
assistance of BIIS
under a separate
contract, as per
August 1998.
47



Table 8A: Project Costs
Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs
IBRD/IDA                                 183.1   183.1
Cofinancing Institutions (the             50       50
Export-Import Bank of Japan)
Domestic Contributions            n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
Total                                    233.1   233.1
Table 8B: Project Financing
Actual
(US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs
IBRD/IDA                                 183.1   183.1
Cofinancing Institutions (the              50      50
Export-Import Bank of Japan)
Domestic Contributions            n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
Total                                    233.1   233.1
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
48



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Romania
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
Covenant  Present
Type       Status
Agreement           Section                             Description of Covenant
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12       C        Achievement of numeric privatization targets for CCs as agreed with the Bank.
I (1)
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        C        Establishment and activation of a system for the registration and trading in shares of
1(2)                               CCs.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12       C        Establishment of a simplified procedure, agreed with the Bank, for the registration of
1(3)                               new enterprises.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        CP       The Government of the Borrower to submit a report to the bank, demonstrating in a
1(4)                               manner acceptable to the Bank that substantial progress has been made in
implementing the financial recovery of the Core Group of CCs, including meeting the
aggregate and specific benchmarks agreed with the Bank.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12       CP       Exit of at least fifty (50) CCs from the surveillance program established by
I(5)                               Government Decision 212/95, out of which at least twenty (20) CCs, which have not
been placed in isolation under Government Decision 301/93, have been privatized or
liquidated, while the remainder of the fifty (50) CCs have re-established, to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank, a positive cash flow.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12       CP        Completion of an additional five (5) privatizations or liquidations out of the group of
1(6)                               CCs placed in isolation under Government Decision 301/93.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12       CP        The Borrower has submitted a report to the Bank, demonstrating with respect to the
1(7)                                Core Group of RAs substantial progress measured against detailed benchmarks as
agreed with the Bank in the implementation of their financial recovery programs.
Loan Agreement       Sched.4, Sect.  12        NC        Substantial progress in the implementation of the mechanism to forestall future build
1(8)                               up of arrears in the energy sector, as measured against benchmarks agreed upon with
the Bank.
49



Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12         C        Observance of the limits on financial support by the Government of the Borrower, the
1(9)                                 Financial Recovery Fund and SOF to state-owned enterprises as agreed upon by the
Borrower and the Bank.
Loan Agreement       Sched.4, Sect.  12         C         Submission to the Bank of a report prepared by NBR, demonstrating the compliance
I (10)                               of the banks under NBR's supervision with its circulars and prudential regulations,
relating to loss provisioning, capital adequacy and the distribution of net profits, and
describing the measures taken by NBR against non-complying banks.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12         C        Implementation of the privatization action plan of the Romanian Bank for
I (11)                               Development, as agreed with the Bank and as adjusted, if necessary, in order to reflect
the mandatory provisions of the new bank privatization law, if enacted.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12         C        Finalization of a privatization action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for a second bank
1 (12)                              to be privatized, and approval by the general assembly of shareholders, the
Govermt.{ent of the Borrower, anu the NBR of such privatization action plan.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12         C        Submission to the Bank of a report prepared by NBR demonstrating progress
1 (13)                               satisfactory to the Bank in the implementation of Regulation No. 3/95, issued by NBR
in respect of collateralization of NBR;s refinancing credits to banks.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12         C        NBR has: (i) increased the staff of its banking supervision department to its full
1(14)                                complement; (ii) provided a report demonstrating that on-site inspections of banks
have been carried out in accordance with the inspection program as agreed upon with
the Bank, and (iii) issued a regulation requiring mandatory audits of banks by
independent external auditors.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12         C        Endorsement by the Government of the Borrower and NBR of a detailed proposal for
1(15)                               a deposit insurance scheme, agreed with the Bank.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12         C        Issuance of a regulation by NBR introducing a uniform chart of accounts for banks in
1(16)                                accordance with internationally accepted accounting standards.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12         C        The Government of the Borrower has prepared a report demonstrating that it is current
I ( 17)                              with all its payment obligations to banks, including in respect of principal and interest
due to banks in accordance with Law 7/92 and Ordinance 1/94.
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12         C        Achievement of further numeric privatization targets for CCs as agreed with the Bank.
11(I)
Loan Agreement       Sched. 4, Sect.  12         CP        Exit of all CCs placed under surveillance according to Government Decision 212/95,
II (2)                               except for those agreed upon by the Government of the Borrower and the Bank, from
the surveillance program through: (i) privatization; (ii) re-establishment, to the
50



satisfaction of the Government of the Borrower and the Bank, of a positive net-cash
_flow; of (iii) liquidation.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        CP       Completion of a total of at least ten (10) additional privatizations or liquidations out of
11 (3)                             the group of CCs placed in isolation according to the provisions of Government
Decision 301/93.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        CP       With respect to the core Group of RAs , substantial progress towards phasing out
11 (4)                             uneconomic activities and improvement of their cash flows.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        NC       Substantial progress in the implementation of the mechanism to forestall future build
11 (5)                             up of arrears in the energy sector, as measured against benchmarks agreed upon with
the Bank.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        C        Observance of the limits on financial support by the Government of the Borrower, the
11 (6)                             Financial Recovery Fund and SOF to state-owned enterprises, as agreed upon by the
Borrower and the Bank.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        C        Submission to the Bank of a report prepared by NBR demonstrating the compliance of
11 (7)                             the banks under NBR's supervision with the circular on prudential regulations, relating
to loan loss provisioning, capital adequacy and the distribution of net profits, and
describing the measures taken by NBR against non-complying banks.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        NC       Implementation of the privatization action plan referred to in paragraph 12 of section I
11 (8)                             of this Schedule 4.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        C        Submission to the Bank of a report demonstrating full implementation of the
11 (9)                             provisions of Regulation 3/95, issued by NBR in respect of collateralization of NBR's
refinancing credits to banks.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        CP       Submission to the Bank of a report from NBR demonstrating that: (i) on-site
11 (10)                            inspections of banks have been carried out in accordance with an inspection program
agreed with the Bank; and (ii) banks are in compliance with the regulation issued by
NBR in respect of mandatory audits of banks to be carried out by independent external
auditors.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        C        Establishment of the deposit insurance scheme referred to in paragraph 15 of Section I
II. (11)                           of the Schedule 4.
Loan Agreement      Sched. 4, Sect.  12        C        The Government of the Borrower has furnished a report demonstrating that it is
11(12)                             current in all its payment obligations to banks, including principal and interest due to
banks in accordance with Law 7/92 and Ordinance 1/94.
Loan Agreement      Sched.4, Sect.  12         C        The Borrower has implemented the employment adjustment program in its enterprises
III.                               placed under surveillance under Government Decision 212/95, as agreed with the
Bank.
51



Loan Agreement        Art. III.Sect.    09         C         Prior to each such exchange of views, the borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
3.01 b                                review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Loan Agreement        Art. III, Sect.   09         NC        Without limitation upon the provisions of para (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
3.01 c                                exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing the
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Loan Agreement        Art. III, Sect.   01         NC        Have the USD Deposit Account, the DEM Deposit Account, and the FRF Deposit
3.02 a                                Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Loan Agreement        Art. III, Sect.   01         NC        Furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) months
3.02 b                                after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
Loan Agreement        Art. III,        01          NC        Furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the USD Deposit Account, the
Section 3.02 c                        DEM Deposit Account, and the FRF Deposit Account, and the audit thereof, as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Loan Agreement        Sect. 2.02 d     12          C         That the macroeconomic framework of the Borrower is consistent with the Program as
B i                                   determined on the basis of indicators agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank.
Covenant types:                                                                       Present Status:
1. - Accounts/audits                           8. = Indigenous people                 C = covenant complied with
2.  Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                10. = Project implementation not covered    CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds        by categories 1-9                   NC  not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                        11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                      regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlcment                   13. = Other
52



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Note: Data on planned and revisedfigures are no longer available
Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks  US$ '000
Preparation to         347.6  1042.7
Appraisal
Appraisal              147.8  770.0
Negotiations through   32.6   64.9
Board approval
Supervision            241.3  556
Completion             3.8    7.5
Total            769.3  2441.1
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project   Month/  No. of Days  Specialization
cycle         Year  Persons  in
Field
Through Appraisal  4/92     3       21
6/92    2       12
9/92    2       18
11-12/92 4      12
2/93    3       14
6/93    2       12
10/93    2      18
2/94    3       14
3/94.    4      8
5-6/94   3      19
6/94    8       21
9/94    10      21
9-10/94  1      3
9-10/94  3      15
11/94    1      20
1-2/95   2      8
1-2/95   1      14
4/95    3       7
53



Appraisal through   5-6/95   2        19
Board approval      5-6/95   1        17
5-61/95   1      28
Supervision         3/96      2       10    Priv. Sector
1       4     Fin. Sector
7/96     3       20    Fin. Sector
2       53    Priv. Sector
11/96    1       5      Fin. Sector
1       10    Priv. Sector
2/97     1       10    Div. Chief
3       36    Fin. Sector
3       52    Priv. Sector
1       8     Econ. - Legal
5/97     1       4      Div. Chief
2       17    Fin. Sector
2       17    Priv. Sector
12/97    2       22    Fin. Sector
2       22    Priv. Sector
Completion          5/98      1       12    Fin. Sector
Total                          623
54



Appendix 1. Mission's Aide-Memoire
A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Khaled Sherif and Ramin Shojai visited Romania
from April 22 to May 2, 1999. As part of their terms of reference, they discussed with the
Government the draft Romania FESAL ICR. The objectives of the mission were to discuss the
lessons learned from the FESAL, and to prepare for the upcoming Board presentation of the
PSAL. The following aide-memoire details findings between the Bank and Government of
Romania.
Project Objectives and Prospects for Success Under the PSAL
FESAL objectives were appropriately set and remain valid. The FESAL program properly
focused on taking care of financial and economic fundamentals, in particular price and trade
liberalization; enterprise and bank privatization; restoration of fiscal balance by targeting loss-
making SOEs; removal of obstacles to the emergence of new private firms; and the development
of adequate regulatory, accounting, and supervisory instruments to create a sound banking
system and a capital market.
In spite of the failure to implement the last part of the program, the FESAL has had a
considerable and positive impact on the structural reform of Romania. Most of the measures
taken, especially on price and trade liberalization, SOE privatization, and banking and capital
market regulation, are irreversible. This is expected to assist immeasurably with future project
implementation, particularly as significant institutional capacity has been built up during the
course of the FESAL, and as recognitioni of the need for structural reform to reverse the
economic decline grows.
The Government has now recognized that the success of reform lies with addressing three major
issues: privatization (of banks, enterprises and utilities); elimination of nonviable loss-making
firms; and development of a sound banking system. Also, a much more comprehensive legal
framework has been enacted, providing a measure of empowerment to authorities for prudential
oversight that was lacking at the outset of the FESAL. A major effort at institution building has
also been in place under the FESAL, reinforced by a greater mandate to ensure compliance with
recently introduced regulatory norms. This culture will remain and will facilitate implementation
of subsequent operations.
GOR and the Bank both believe that the PSAL will help bring the economy closer to stability and
competitiveness by finishing the work originally begun under the FESAL. Prospects for success
are now considered greater due to the significant passage of legislation and regulations, and
technical assistance provided under the FESAL in support of institutional capacity building.
These and other achievements under the FESAL are expected to contribute to PSAL success.
Project Design Problems and Lessons Learned
There were several project design flaws under the FESAL:
* The FESAL tried to include too many areas of reform in a single operation. The initial
FESAL was to be disbursed in four portions over a period of two years, and included 27



conditions for disbursement. The revised FESAL was even more complex; with an
additional 41 conditions for disbursement introduced.
Recommendation: Future adjustment operations should focus on a more limited number of
areas of reform22 ; and should be much simpler and shorter (one year horizon); with a
maximum of two tranches.23
*  Many conditions were based on processes (e.g., design and implementation of plans or
mechanisms; production of reports) or on outcomes that were subjective and difficult to
measure (e.g., improved enterprise caish flow; "substantial progress achieved..."). As a result,
monitoring implementation required considerable allocation of resources, including staff time
and travel.
Recommendation: Conditions should be based on a limited number of significant and easily
verifiable outcomes and results.
*  There was insufficient Government ownership, delivery capacity, and control of the
implementation of the program, especially of the revised program of 1997. Except in 1996,
when the Minister of Finance clearly took the lead in monitoring implementation of the
program, the Romanian Government 'was not appropriately represented.
Recommendation: Set up a high level counterpart group to design and monitor
implementation of such operations. Build up country ownership of the program. Ensure that
it can be realistically implemented.
*  Romanian institutional capabilities were overestimated and proved to be too weak for the
scope of the task. This became particularly clear in the areas of policy design; enterprise and
bank privatization; monitoring of SOE financial performance and discipline; SOE
governance; bank supervision; and bank restructuring.
Recommendation: Ensure that institutional capabilities are adequately built up, preferably
before project preparation, or at least during project implementation. Technical assistance
(TA) and training should be provided, either under specific Bank loans24 or by other donors.
This was done successfully when the ]Romanian capital market was created.
*  The legal and regulatory framework and the court system proved to be inadequate to sustain
implementation of the program. This became particularly acute in the area of enterprise and
bank privatization; enterprise and ban]k liquidation; and utility regulation. Implementation of
the program was considerably delayed by constant changes in privatization legislation and
regulations; difficulties in liquidating bankrupt firms and banks; excessive interference of the
Court of Accounts; and problems resulting from uncertainties about land ownership and the
extent of the public domain. The court system proved to be ineffective at applying the
22     However, the linkage between macroeconomic stability, enterprise sector reform, and financial
sector reform has to be maintained. This can be done by simultaneously processing several separate
operations, but without systematically stopping disbursement of one because of difficulties in meeting
conditions in another.
23     Whenever pressure was exercised on payment of one cost item (e.g., bank debts), arrears would
emerge on another (e.g., taxes, energy or other suppliers). It should be noted that the requirement for no
increases in arrears to energy suppliers, insistecl upon by the IMF for resumption of its SBA, was never
respected.
24     The FESAL team and the Resident Mission did provide an inordinate amount of TA. However,
this was not properly budgeted for and was sometimes delivered in an untimely and uncoordinated manner.
2



Bankruptcy Law, and could not be relied on to facilitate implementation of the program.
Recommendation: Conduct a thorough assessment of the legal, regulatory, and judicial
system early in project preparation. Passage of essential laws and regulations should be a
component of the program. The judicial infrastructure should be strengthened either through
a specific Bank loan or by other donors.
*  Though the 1997 Cabinet initially appeared strongly committed to deep and fast reform, little
attention was given to building up support for the structural reform program with
parliamentarians, civil servants, the media, and the public at large. Without a public
awareness campaign, the FESAL may have appeared (along with the IMF SBA) as a painful
exercise forced upon Romania by international organizations.
Recommendation: Attention should have been paid to explaining the rationale behind the
FESAL to the media, politicians, and civil servants. A systematic public relations campaign
should be built into the program.
*  The FESAL provided an umbrella for a vast array of technical assistance and training
programs, delivered either by the Bank or by other donors, to build up local institutional
capabilities and train national experts. The FESAL program became the policy anchor of
bilateral support, in particular from the European Union (EU) and the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID). Close and effective cooperation was achieved
between the Bank and other donors.
Recommendation: Sustain donor cooperation for effective implementation.
Other, more specific design issues were identified:
  Privatization targets are useful indicators. However, they should be based on the percentage
of state-owned assets actually transferred to private ownership and control.
*  Loss and payment arrears reductions are the most painful and difficult results to achieve as
they may have a severe social impact. However, measures in this area are unavoidable.
Targets should not be enterprise-specific (e.g., list of enterprises to be liquidated), nor should
they be based on hypothetical and hard to measure loss/arrears reduction targets. The
emphasis should be placed on enforcement of a hard budget constraint, and divestiture of
state ownership in troubled sectors through privatization or liquidation.
*  Presentation of legislation to the Parliament by the Government is not sufficient. It may
remain stalled in Parliament and/or the output may not be satisfactory. Loan approval should
be contingent on the enactment of laws satisfactory to the Bank (this has to be specified at
negotiation).
Lessons Learned and How It Applies to the PSAL Design
The FESAL was allowed to lapse on April 30, 1998, because it had become apparent that the
remainder of the program as designed would not be implemented in a reasonably short span of
time. It needed to be overhauled, in particular to reflect the views and program of the new
Government nominated in April 1998, and to incorporate some of the lessons learned. The
Government and the Bank are now in the process of updating the structural reform program,
based on Government proposals in the form of the PSAL. The initial objective is to replace the
FESAL by one separate adjustment operation that focuses on the enterprise sector, utilities and
3



mining, and the financial sector. This project will be a two-tranche operation and aims to
stimulate reforms in the following areas:
(d) In the Enterprise Sector: (a) accelerating state-owned enterprise (SOE) privatization across a
wide spectrum of sectors; (b) enforcing hard budget constraints on remaining SOEs through
the closure of big loss makers (i.e., mines); and (c) implementing an action plan to stimulate
private sector development and streamline the business environment.
(e) In the Financial Sector: (a) gradually raising the soundness of the Romanian banking system;
(b) ensuring that state banks are properly restructured as a pre-requisite for their
privatization; (c) ensuring that NBR put into place the regulations that will improve the
overall soundness of the banking system at large; and (d) further developing the government
securities market.
(f) In the Social Sector, reforms in botlh enterprise and financial sectors will be addressed by
measures designed to strengthen the social safety net through: (a) rationalizing an income
support program for displaced workers; (b) ensuring that an adequate budget is in place for
such purposes.
Also, to strengthen the implementation of the reform program, a new Private Sector Institutional
Building Loan is being prepared. A mining project is being prepared to support mine closures
undertaken by the FESAL.
4



Appendix 2.
INITIAL FESAL PROGRAM POLICY MATRIX



ROMAN: PiomdI AnEd p  Sedor Adjsumt Lme (DAL)
ftPk    d   ogm   of Poseiy Rdofog
Md,CRQECONOMIC   Policy nessures incompliance,  Mainteact  facco                   anencc,   ofance-Miteac    fam^o   Mantmuc  of                          is of s  rOf UmLnmnC6of
POLLCY                    with  SAL  adjustment  economic  framework   economic  framework   economic  framework   economic  framework
programs.                  conitet with thc prosrm   constnt with the propam   ooanijmt wah the  pgrm    coasicet w_ the pram
Estbsh apppriate macro-                              as detemimed on the basis of  as ddminod on tho basi of  as demined 4o the basi of  as detannined on the basi of
ecoommic  fraework  in                               indicators agsesd upon by the  indicatom s d upon by the  ina    Wrd Wo by tdhe   =ators agred wa   by
suppwt of onsistet trade,                            Gon          and the  lnk   Goverment ad te Bank   Gme          g aud the Rak   dke Gcvern     and dih
induMisL  mneaq   nd                                 an  progrm  achse   by  and propes achieved by   and p1o.  iohwd by  Dun& and pmpo -,",d
budgary policies                                      theGovwermont  in  the  theGovenment  In  tho  thcGovuramat  in  the  by thGov                   in  the
carr*g oWt of the pZgam.  caring oVt of the prgam    rn g4 ott of to   og        cari  oe of th poga
0



NNey Xma ~4J~ulb   ~mAt~pu~Dq~q.   ..A~*~*    h  Doar&        ~     I    *S0 SS....... ..         EWR                     nr      1   '
RIVMZA10                   As of 10130/9S,  xxx  m^aU   Completion  of  1,500   Compltionofatlea  2,750   CompletinofatIlcat3,600
CCs privatized out of 3,100;  cumulative   privatizations  cumuWive  privatizations,  cumulative  privatzations,
elarated  and  efctive   xxs medium CCs out of 2,S00;  sinco the wactment of Law   sineF te rancet of LAw   sims the anatm   of Law
prdzafizon  of    major   nd xx kWge CCs out of 700.  581991.                      5S1991, including at eat   531991, including    least
poieon of the sWeowasd                                                             400 madium-sized and 50   S00 medium-sizd and 100
entetpris sector.          Sigure  of  a  t&hnical  Issue  of an  Ordinance,  large CCS.                        re CCs.
assistance progrm  wit  EU   acceptable  to  the  Bank,
A   CC   is  considered  Pbit to assist mi pparing   establishigddamdpayment
pfivdiud wbe  lat  90%   and implacating tho  MPP   faliie ior the sae of shaes
of iu  slates buow   and the inil registon of  st* hbad by the SOP ater
trafered AWer to  ities  sae.                          exchangeofCOsandcoupons
wbicb am 90%  in pivat                                If  Sharm under thc Mm.
ownaabp, or to prive
indiv~aah.                                              ormaliksti andpublicafm
of sndsr contacts, aged
wih the Bank, for te cash
slo of shae discound by
mor than 30%.
Launchmbg of tie progam of
bastmhr  sau of 40% of
the sa   of the CCs in doe
_ _  _   __        __        MW.                                                                                 _ _ _ _ __PP.
EPbb a f    om .basisSr Sipeaofa Maxanuduof  EfBctive adtivation of an   Esblishmet and activation
s_aating d th dig of  UndJ_at            wih USMD to  interim   sha     registry   of  a    atan   Sr  the
ahsmed noudYetMW    dmmasyIt1r1cmgisbatioen  aGwg   r MP   sham sa exsin and tading in
ad lait   of aae.           r        di - M andaradomnmt  sla.
by th  oovrmmat of Ihc
design of a system,
aooepta  to tie Bank, br
the  gion andUi ft  of
shsvcs.
0



:^ ~        56'         *        -              4'                                                              '-  
mm .~~IN KW                                                              a R    BNffi  i;i
PRIVATE SElCTOR         Impamtaio   of   vcwad  Endorsement  by  tho  Bbli_  tm of a si_fe
DEVELOMM                SM    devomet w lem,  G         _vnmt of a 4mifitd   p    ,odwt n weed with the
wwmfd  by NAP, wab   _e,ut            b ftb to dw    o*  for tbrc npao of
To  veam    co_kut to _Imbdtdw, xdo Bok  Inhwuld ton_ow et u.
P5D mpo    nrd p  co_ming  ,v t   &               dtA tbe  g-      of a
ee wwk=d dWrwMI            _ nmbot x.no           io A l -              * I  ,ca n b*.coAlded
iqt3        of dkle A
ot"        0 ofr""KM. E o
.>             lse b. CY4V. 
~'$*          1 -         _                                                                   _            '~_
top e  by           wptot                                            i  o 
ToS re m~gu~a to  himumihualldam.., ~ebadhg   _eak,  _hich             ._uld   w    a ~m~imsP
PSD mad ptovid  ouwive  remu~ic  mvum, traimiag~   the re~  of a



4'           0*..    ,        ,  . X <,Z
LOSS-REDUCTION,   LAw 76  ables craditon to  Submiwion to the Bank of  Ie Governmcatto submits  Exit of CCs pled undr    Reduon of empyment in
FINANCIAL          JNE   cnixaforoc their ight. (Pnaky   acceptable FM  for the comn  report  to  the  bank   surveillance  from   the ettpfiscs  placod  unr
AND GOVBIINANCE OF   tit  roe on arun  of  group of 13 CCs.                      d_anstrag, in a  m,mw P sllhc  peogm   (GD   murvllhnce, as agecd wth
IERQ     ALB              O.1S% per dian.)                                       acceptable to the Bank, that  212J95)  sept  for those  the Dan
COUPAM dI,  13 CCs have made   irdI to hbdcw, on aect
BDakPtcy Law  has been                                 substnfal  progrs   in  of oam of do foSoiag.
Expedbe anuums to stcm   passed.                                                 inp_menting  their PMPs,
tapris. loes                                                                     including   meeting  thc  () puivatizioo;
30 CC, wc   plaeed in a                                agtregate  and  specific
As  much  as  possibe   spca ucalo prgani (GD                                    bechmuk agreed wih thbo  iiH) zetblisnt, to the
acokat psiwvdo  and  301M3) to prwvt fSther                                     Dank.                      satisfaction   of  the
w<e emtic g to sw   comtanination  of  baus;                                   Gsovesnastudof thcBank,
owns.                     recovery  progrm    were  Estbkliswi t of the leg    Exit of at last 50 CCs fkom   of a pose net cash Bow;
prepared  by  enteprise  framework   for  the  tho  suveWan     progm    and
Cleridtiosandeahroct    -       6nganat with  technosil  surveillance  regime  etblshd  by GD 212/95,
of the rigs of credkos  asisace financed by the  (Ordianc 139).                  out of wch at lea 20 CC,,  (ii) lquidation.
agast delinquat debtIor.   Bank.                                                 which have not boee plaoed
insolatiounderG1301M93,  The Goaneat and the
Protectionof d'ilosl api    On_Aec 13/95 cres an                                 hwve  bem  Fpivatixd  or    ak willc  pna li    of up to
creditors  while  in  a.b Pngdlftsma& hra                                        liquidated,  while  the   10 aophs  wich  will
_opnixt     or in  the  spcca svela  pwuam,                                      ra        of the odw  So   unmn in the .wlllnc
p.o    of  _babot.        which   would   allow                                  CCQ hewv r.lied. to  progr   for up to ODe yaw
pasticg  SOls to dder                                  teo  malisctin   of  the do   r third poties ruas
Develop an ordedy  askt       cmg   r ds, pG_tma and the Bank, a
fbrhsacwaiup itmcaasd   o _N        of co_oilirn                                 podia casb now.
reduce  inter-enterprise   _p_       hc w   to bomb  aod
narl.                     witd the   c act    sand   Compition   of 7 pivati-  Cosipi   of addion  S  Comes of addiional 10.
smpemien of                andoss and liquidationsucot  pidvalims  or Myddstid   piacatiom or li 1idmmr li
Transparency  and   a    eoit  151 CC plwed  of tho Soup of CCs plaed in              of te gop of CC.  out of db. pg             of CCs
juaifsoation  in  budget  udw  mmAeo   by  GD   isolation under GD 301M93.   paeo_d in isotoneud  GO   placd inQba'ips ceder GD
awast.                    212/95.  SOBs   ink dre1 la                            301193.                     30193.
F9is    PIN   wih  the
odc-4 a to nAm  loss and
sum. zand to m poe
fi p.
0w
I.



LOSS-REDUCTION.  Boards of Di_caon  fully  Submission to the Bank of  ThnGovaunmcttosubmita  Substmntialprogzu bytho6
FINNCIAL DSCIPLNE   stfd for most RA&. Fust  acceptable FRPs for the corn  report  to  the  Bank   RAs  owards phasing out
ANDGOVMNtACE              seis ofm   gacmntconat   group of 6 RAm.             demonstrating, in  manneu  usecondmi   advtivu  sd
RILGIBS AUTlNOMES         pod  with  mnaniuitd.                                aocceabc to the Bank. that  imping their cash flow.
NW psra c     Contacs                                 db  6  RAm  have  made
Reduce loss ad aar of  am being designed. Financia                             subsanl   progres   in
regqi atonoms. Limit and  control  and  monitoring                              _pamating  their FRPs,
ukimasdy reduo budgcazy  orgaixed by sctor ministris,                         including   mecting  the
finncing of thir bum and  MOP and Count of Acount.                             aggrgate  and  specific
smm.                                                                           bawbmark   -   with dth
Mjor RA  included in thc                              BnR
su.vilne pzrOgmn.
0
I-



Page 6 of II
HARD BUDGET                                         Adpion by the Govenunmt  Substantial  progress  in  Subsantial  psogmes  in
CONSZ&          ON RAE                              of a mchn m,  acbulc   imnpkmcation  of    tbc  implema to   of    tbre
AND      : CA                                       to thr Ba, to forabll  m anium  to lfo  A=               _m  to flu  MItuMD
FI&&AL g:Qtuffim                                    fiumtr buid up of a n in  buDd up of aurosn  in tho  build up of arrus in die
the enagy setor. ncludn    =    sedw, as nacuzd       gy sabr, u musuzred
Impose  hard  budget                                an ag4ent on benwha    apinu  bachmk  agr_eed  againu ben _mark  agred
conszuint on tbe avaIabliy                          to be met.                 upon wit the Dank.        upon with th Dauk
of  budgeay  or  SOP
r oure to RAs and CCQ                              An  overall  cap  on  Obeavane of the agred  Ob0erman  of the ageed
p4ced in the swvilanee                              Government  and  SOP  *WoaoGowrnawsdSOF   c  ano vuemaadSOF
pforan.                                             fimiusl awpoit in 1995 to    anal appoit to   a-  fnan   son"t to  "0-
swmd asw nder  owmd a_ up    .                      owned atgm.
the  ruvafane   Proam
getablished  by  Ordinan
13195 fre mawiu     akded
arni GD 21219S, iking
the maoro-eoonoaio
84woned prsm, on:
ii) budstary .*u    ad
iwnvm.t tamkft;
(ilb Govmet gua_de
am boak 1ein; and
(iv) SOP corporate
0
ct_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
_ _                               .           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I-



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.*'                                                                   ** **   *t(.  S    b    :   + *.l.   . :::<
. .   ...                                                  ,,,          .(   4$ 4 ? 4 | | _ W  ...
*  .      ~~                     *4~...........             Z  &Qf&
sa.NXCR.Eal,ICrpRSO    Successive  rounds  of  Speeific loan4o-s ptavisions
ANI?  REMA1S=apsN                    ta, &camna    by bhak to be rndad tax
aha and poxddio ruwa  by  d*duab  aooadig to -
Restruoturing   and   thmajarbanaks. hav*_wuWd   agred pbs.4-im  rcheduls
piAtkl  of atawmd   is  dosiled  istitionl  dub  .1995 an  IM   as
_ I~~1  banksahab            do4opmi prerua.          ia5bws (a) dw    m995-for
i    geras, will radwc tbe                          lhn  in do  b.  (140%
sare of *c Sat  in th                                prov )addo Xm(50%
bankin   r.                                          prvhaoo)  c_ ;  aWd
(b) during 1996 and
fowing  anegouiu  of
inapird ardb   (oL, ks
(100% provmicm), doultl
(50%  p sia.) ad rob-
andd  (0% pmvino)I.
NOR  to   ieY cirulr  Submiso to the  ank of a   Subsni   to tdo  ank of a
in in banks to tdutako   epeal  km die  NMR   rpogt  hor   te  NMR
ba  lowlan-h.  provbkining  danorad SdheeoWanlnms  dgnoiatd.ce apimplame
and requiing tnm to utah   of the banb  undr NBRs  of tW  bnb   uar NDRs
50% of th  mt pro& afit er  spvl  wkti dhecizoular   survisawr  do t ieromIns
tax until they hw  reacod   1a peudeah zgup mm os  and peudh zph           . ca
the miobmun l., of capia1  han40m; eoiuinaIng.eap1   bhanhaa         in.in&mg1l
adequy,                   ad_qua    d t diation  adqacy ..d doote ube
of sad pefo, and dma*      of mat pos. al 0d=7*g
Edabldnat of WODs in  tho  ma    tm by NMR  tbe  _m s Wm by Nll
each of th majo bnb.      agantnommoalingbaks.  aVinatnom4=Vbi%be.
nb



Privatizalion of at kast one  Bank Privatzation Task Force  Finalization of a privatizain  Implanentation of the RBD
state-owned  bank  and  (BPVF) established to develop  action plan for RBD agreed  privatization plan, as adjused
pmparation of a second one  and guide implenentation of  with the Bank and approved  in agreement with the Bank,
for privatization.        the bank privatizaion rategy.  by tht shareholders, NBR nd  in  order to  teflect the
the  Government.  Such  mandatory provisions of the
A bank will be consided as                            privatization plan to iclude  nw Bank Prvatiatio Law,
privaized when at leat 51%                            an offer for sale, listing on  if and when enacted.
of its shar   ha  bn                                  the BSE and sale of at kt
transferred cither to atom                            10% of its shates by public  Finalization of a privafization  Implementation  of  the
which are 90%  in privat                              offering, over and above  action plan for the second  pnvaziza   plan  of the
ownenhip, or to private                              those held by the POPs and  bank to be privatized, to be  seond    k, as adjustd in
individuals                                          its employeae                *ed  with th  Bank, and  agement with the  anck, in
approvd  by  its  Gel  orderto reflect th mdatory
Assembly of Shaeholdes,  provisns of the new Bank
the NBR. Such privatization   Ptizadion  LAW, if and
pan to indude an offer for  when enacted.
sal, ho"g on the BSE and
sla of at lat 10% of its
shares by publ    orin,
over and shove hos held by
the POPs and its cmpboyee.
An  oagoipg  commtm
fron  the Gcvmat that
there will be no.
xecapaaia   of beak by
th sa  budget, by to NBR,
orfroon xma budgctar Aind
cxWpt im iy pnur to
privatiztico  or as neede
upon a bank being inevened
by NBR.
go
0
Hi%



FINANC1XL SEN[            Esabblshmict  of  auction  NBR to iue a ciculr for  Subisasion to t  Bank of a   Submnision to the Bank of a
pOLICX                    system for NOR refiancing  piiuing in the coDlarl-  Ipost prepard  by NBR   repolt prepased by NBR,
cr-dAs.                     izaton  of iss refinancig   demonstrating  progress  demonstrating   full
Achieve  market-based                                 crdit to bankm, as ageed  satisfhtor to the Oank in   iq_plmnation of Regultion
postive ea rates of isAt                              with the World Bank.        i       dOmeRo lation3/9S   3J9S isued  by  NlR  in
to psted tvabe of blcl                                                            iued by NBR ist repect of  respePt of cofliAcallasi  of
cunncy in the light of                                                            coflaetation  of NBR's  NBi's refinsning erdes to
uted  inftion and to                                                              rfuinah ng craft to banks   bank.
zdsum  the sUb   a of
fincial  mourees  for
investment.
Limit bnks' utilzis   of
refnanng  crtedit  frm
NiR without adequate
coilatersi.
Improve  the  prudenti   NDR has issued prudeal  NBR to havc undertaken to   The  staffing  of  the
regulation and supervision of  regulations covering:   carry  out  nnual on-site  Supervi   Depart_n  of
bank by NBR.              (a) licensing,    (b) loan  insecion  of al bak.  NiR  " beinc asedto ka
expasm limits, (c) cumrcy  Such inspecdion to inlude,  fuAlM e mk _ of arund 70
exposures,  (d)  insider  wbe. apprpriae, a riiel  staff.
lending/conneced   lending  aswa-ment of the banks
(c) captl  adequacy,  and   lest semIAn    potfio   NBR to sawi to tho Bank a  NilR w   bmitn to ftb Bank a
() lo    casifcation  and  reviws mnd the asocied   reea demonstrating tha on-  xqpost d_smeiag tdot the
provisioning. Rules reating to  loan-loss  provisioning   sie inpecto  of baun asrc rIqnirodon.binspeedonof
ownership of banks by nn-  rooommedadd.                being caried out.           bak arm tkS pa7
bak and equity holdinp of
bank  in  non-banks  ar                                NBR to iuu  a regultion   Submio to tie Bank of a
covered  in  the  basic                                roquiring   mandatory    post prepaed  by  NSR
k&stion.                                               indepndt cnenl audis  demonstrating conWiian  of
of banks.                  ban     with  madatory
'U rg



t~~ .                                                                '.w                      t'                   Sm  VSRES|!
Reduoc  CEC's slr  of  Houwchold avings with CEC                                   Endorsement  by  the   hmnplemettonofthedeposk
dqpok4-aking  amon   d    incuded in bank liablti  for                              GoCwmni and NBR of a  isumnce swoe.
population, and pmvidc a  which   NBR   reserve                                     deailed  proposal  for  a
Woel  playing  fied  for  rupaizenta apply.                                         dcpos itmuanoe  sce
deposi-ing by all banls.                                                            agred wh the Bank.
Commenrcial banks now
compeing with CBC for
boushold dpo4s.
Inpqove  thc  speed  and  NBR R.gu.tion No. 1011994,
Sctiany of payment by  readiag  a  paper-bas
introduciSg   a  modern   muidstil eompatios  of
Paymms system.             kumak  paymmi. becam
eopaminl an Apu 3, 199S.
A obuing sktin is held daily,
usdarthepi      of the Baok
Setdlmeos Dep_ton  of th
NDR in Bum At and in 41
Ysds. In the  *du tam,
NDR  i;_hds to  lanh  a
PeLYins system.
To eablish an cffetiw and  Ageenet in painc4pl  by
sintinabsemdaoinx          NIR   and  the  Banker
b_an  to ta      the diak  Asasaiutan  the marku of
management of b            establiahing   a  credit
6no           berm  (CI).
0
..  _     .__.        .  ...  ....    ...            ,,        .      ........    ..    __._    ..       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0@
eo
0
I-
I-



_Pok                           ___
ACCOUNTING AND             New  cowunting sandards and                             Isuac of a reguion by
AUDITiN                    an Acoounting Law have been                             the  NBR  introducing  a
adoped. The new standards                                uni echwt of acounts for
Implement  sound,  ae baed on EU stanads.                                          buk, in acordance wh
itternationalty  zucoized                                                       . internationally  accpted
acouing  dsdards  in  As fhom January 1, 1994, al                                  aoutig sandards.
cauprises ud banks. sp-  coaupises =ied to prepsc
ported   by  coinpoent  their accouats in acodace
accoutig  and  audtng  with           now  chat  of
standards.                accotai.
Mhe LAw o_pZg the
proksn of accounts  ad
audiiws hu bm -p d.
Dibbishmat -.of l n
Aiooiation  of  Cettifid
Accountant and Andites.
CAPrrAL MARKET             Ordina       18 sad 24  nd   Opening of tho Bucharest
subsequent  regulations  Stock Exchae
Esablib  Cap_   MSZkC4  adptod  Secuiry Excae
inclding thc  MM     dt    Act spptoed by Pudinmmt.
National  Securities   NSC estblished.
Comission (NSC).
Seulemcat  of  Overdue  In  December  1994,  thc                                   Ihe Governmnt to sue a    hec Govenunt to ioue a
Govameat Obgtaoms to  GoVUM sent              itsoverdue                           riolt swig tit is curat   Rqt statg dt its aemnt
Banks                      obligdo     to  cemmtia1                                in an its payns oblptia    in Ae its payma obl4ais
banks, s required under Law                             to  the  banb,  incld    to  the  beoak,  itchdg
'7192                                                   pdnkipul ad iktiwt due to pt o*d and iurM  duo to
beaks under La  7/92  nd   ban  under Lw 7192 and
Ordnunce 1/94.             Ordi     194.
m;mWufslhad195 
Nowner S, 1995
0
16-



Appendix 3. Cofinancier contribution to the ICR
(Export-Import Bank of Japan)
Romania: Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
Comments on Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
1. In Romania, insufficient financial discipline in state-owned enterprises (SOEs) was one
of major sources of the macroeconomic imbalances. We suppose that such insufficient
financial discipline in SOEs had made the government of Romania that came to power in
late 1996 and committed itself to structural reforms unable to maintain an appropriate
macroeconomic framework during the period of FESAL program. Taking this into
account, the current government should continue efforts in restoring fiscal balance by
targeting at loss-making SOEs.
2. In this regard, we can agree to the idea in the ICR to replace the FESAL by one
separate adjustment loan focusing on the enterprise sector, utilities and mining, and the
financial sector. We also support the recommendation that the future adjustment
operations should be much simpler and shorter, provided that those operations include the
elimination of financial support to non-viable loss-making SOEs.
3. The ICR would better describe the adverse impact on the overall program objectives
envisaged under the FESAL that resulted from the nonobservance of the third tranche
release conditionality.
4. The ICR could also refer to the advantage and disadvantage (if any) of focusing on
both the financial and enterprise sectors in one adjustment operation. In order to
encourage the steady implementation of adjustment programs, could it be an alternative
to have separate adjustment loans and reduce the number of conditionalities and the
concerned ministries and agencies?



Appendix 4.
SECOND PORTION RELEASE MEMORANDUM



lntemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R97-1 18
FROM: The Acting Secretary                                  May 27, 1997
ROMANIA - Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
(FESAL) (Loan No. 3975-0, 1, 2-RO)
Release of Second Portion - Waiver of Condition
I1.     Attached is a President's Memorandum entitled, "Romania - Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL) (Loan No. 3975-0, 1, 2-RO): Release of Second Portion -
Waiver of Condition" dated May 22, 1997.
2.      In the absence of objection (to be notified to the Vice President and Secretary or Deputy
Secretary by close of business June 6, 1997), the reconmnendation contained in paragraph 33 of the
Memorandum will be deemed approved and be so recorded in the minutes of a subsequent meeting
of the Executive Directors.
Questions on the memorandum may be referred to Mr. Patrick Tardy, (Ext. 32202).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President's Executive Committee
Senior Management, Bank, IFC and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



FROM: The President                                          May 21, 1997
ROMANIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SSECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN "(ESAL)
LOAN No. 3975-0,1, 2-RO
RELEASE OF THE SECOND PORIION - WAIVER OF CONDMONS
1.    This memorandum summanzes progress made under the FESAL Program
supported by a Loan of US$280 million equivalent for Romania. This operition was
approved by the Board on January 18, 1996. Conditions for second portion release are
specified in Schedule 4, Section I of the Loan Agreement. The following report presents
the actions taken by the Government to meet the specific conditions for release of the
second portion and requests that the Executive Directors approve the waiver of certain of
the conditions.
2.    Recent political and economic developments in Romania are described in detail in
the recently distributed Country Assistance Strategy for Romania (Report No. 16559-
RO, May 9, 1997), which will be discussed at the Board on June 3. Very briefly, the new
Government designated in November 1996 was faced on taking office with a major
economic crisis, which it has moved quickly to resolve. Macro policy in 1996 had been
e-xcessively expansionary, with effective controls on the foreign exchange and money
markets, all in violation of the IMF Stand-By Program which had been approved in
December 1995. Non-compliance with the FESAL program in 1996 contributed to the
mnacro imbalances. The newly designated Government has moved quickly, however, to
restore the macro balances, as well as implement the structural measures (including those
that are part of the FESAL program) which lie at the heart of the difficulties. These
FESAL measures are described in detail below.
1. BACKGROUND
Objectives of the Operation
3.    Preparation of the FESAL started in 1992, to build on measures undertaken within
the program supported by the Structural Adjustment Loan and regulatory reform
supported by the Industrial Development Project. The FESAL focused on implementation
of concomitant structural reforms in both enterprise and financial sectors. FESAL's major
thrust was in privatization of enterprises and banks. Other main objectives included price
and trade liberalization; enforcement of hard budget constraints on remaining State Owned
Enterprises (SOEs) to restore the profitability and financial discipline of the sector;
facilitation of private sector development; creation of an efficient and dynamic capital
market; and improving the soundness of the banking system. These objectives have



remained valid over the whole project development cycle. Under the FESAL,
considerable changes have been engineered in both the enterprise and financial sectors.
The Original Program
4.    The FESAL was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on January 18,
1996. During the preparation period, the Bank provided considerable technical assistance
in most components of the operatron. Many measures-such as the lazihing of imass
privatization program and the strengthening of the regulatory framework of the banking
sector-were actually implemented during preparation of the operation: The loan was
declared effective February 29, 1996, and the first and the floating portions of the loan
were immediately disbursed. By mid-1996, major progress has been accomplished in the
area of enterprise privatization, private sector development, capital market development
and banking sector reform. However, two important components of the programs had
fallen behind: (i) SOE loss-reduction and financial discipline; and (ii) bank privatization
and supervision. As the country geared up for presidential and legislative elections during
the second half of 1996, it became clear that the difficult decisions required to tackle these
two issues would be delayed.
Bringing the Program Back on Track
5.    The Govermment elected in November 1996 has adopted a decidedly stronger
approach to enterprise and financial sector reforms. The new program was announced in
February 1997. Although the main policy objectives remained the same as those initially
agreed with the Bank, it was a more comprehensive and reform-oriented program than the
one agreed with the previous Govemment. After intensive work with the Bank in January
and February 1997, the new Government announced a set of measures designed to get the
programs back on track, which included: (i) liberaLization of prices and trade in most
products and services of the competitive sector; (ii) accelerated privatization of large
state-owned enterprises (SOEs), including Regies Autonomes; (iii) an end to goverrunent-
managed restructuring of SOEs prior to privatization; (iv) further measures, notably
extensive legislative reform, to strengthen the banking sector, (v) new measures to foster
capital market development; and (vi) promotion of direct foreign investment.
6.    More effective approaches (e.g. enterprise restructuring) have been adopted by the
Government, in agreement with the Bank, under this new program. However, the
objectives, the expected results, the structure and the loan amount of the FESAL have
remained unchanged.
7.    The main changes between the new, stronger, program and the initial one are the
following:
(a)   Price and Trade Liberalization: The stronger program aims at: (i) effective
liberalization of most prices and trade regulations for all goods and services
subject to competition; and (ii) removal of export bans and quotas. These
were largely implemented during the first quarter of 1997.
2



(b)   A;cderaton of j      ion: The revised program provides for: (i) the
adoption of simplified methods for the sale of shares at auction, without
any reservation price; and (ii) spetcific targets for the sale of SOEs at
auction; through initial private offering; and through the Jervices of
international privatization agents.
(c)   Enterinse Restrucftuing aW  Frin, F c: -The Goverbment and
the Bink ageed that the g-vermnmnt- tnged process to restructure loss-
-makig SOEs prior to pdivatiaion, which was envisaged under the
original policy program, had not and would not yield the'desired results.
Enterprises placed under surveillance were exempted from servicing past-
due debts, but nevertheless continued (in violation of the accords) to
accumulate losses and arrears. It was agreed that the authorities would.
now pursue a more market-oriented process to bring loss-maldng SOEs
under control, by offering only two possible outcomes: privatization of
loss-making SOEs or creditor-driven liquidation of those which cannot be
privatized. Specific actions have been agreed and recorded in the revised
program, most already implemented: (i) the government-managed
surveillance regime has been terminated; (ii) new eligibility criteria have
been established for severance payments; (iii) timely payments of taxes and
social security contributions to the budget is being aggressively enforced;
(iv) the liquidation of nonviable firms is being accelerated; (v) utility tariffs
have been adjusted to ensure the utilities' financial equilibrium; (vi)
financial discipline is more rigorously enforced; (vii) utilities are
implementing cost reduction measures; (viii) a significant group of loss-
making SOEs have been closed in May 1997; and (ix) Regies Autonomes
will be transformed into Commercial Companies to open them to
privatization or bankruptcy (the prerequisite changes in the legal
framework have been prepared and await Parliamentary approval).
(d)   Bank Privatization: A Law on Bank Privatization has now been passed and
signed by the President. This will enable bank privatization to proceed.
(e)   Banking Sector Regulation and Supervision: A number of changes have
been introduced in the regulatory framework of the financial sector. They
include legislation on the insolvency of banks and changes in the legal and
regulatory framework governing the accounting system and the taxation of
banks.
(f)   Recent Issues in the Banking Sector: The failure of two private banks in
1996, and the severe deterioration in 1996 of the financial condition of the
Government-controlled Banca Agricola, have had to be addressed by the
new government. Specific actions have been undertaken, including: (i)
liquidation of the two failed private banks; and (ii) preparation of a
satisfactory restructuring plan for Banca Agricola. Furthermore, since the
law on the Saving Bank (CEC) was amended in 1996, creating undue
3



ambiguities, it was agreed that: (iii) the status of--and applicable
regulations to-the CEC and the newly created credit cooperatives were
clarified. Finally, an agreement was reached on: (iv) the modernation of
the legal system to enable creditors to better secure their loans with
collateral.
(g)   Q t Market and Forilm by =: To fster the smooth functioning
of the capital market, it was agred that the law enforceinent authority of
the Securities Exchange ComiWssion and information disclosure
requirements would be strengthened. Also, the law on foreign investment
will be amended to allow foreign portfolio investors unencumbered entry
and exit of the Romanian market.
8.    The revised FESAL program makes some of the original conditions irrelevant--e.g.
continued implementation of the surveillance program'--because their objectives will be
met or exceeded through an alternative strategy. Certain other conditions--specifically in
the banking sector2--which have been delayed by inaction of the previous Government, are
now well under way to be met. At the time of third portion release, the Bank will assess
once again the progress achieved by the Government in carrying out the Program (as
defined under the Loan Agreement). In particular, special attention will be given to those
passages of the Program which refer to the actions which are the subject of the conditions
for which a waiver is presently proposed. The revision of the FESAL policy program was
also closely coordinated with work under way at the time by other Bank teams-in the
agricultural sector (ASAL) and in social protection (SPAL)3--and by the IMF4. The
FESAL is an integral part of this package. Support to the Government, at this time, to
help preserve the integrity of this package, is justified, given the good progress made in
designing and implementing the first phase of the renewed program, and the second
portion release of the FESAL is now warranted.
ii. PROGRESS AGAINST SECOND PORTION RELEASE CRITERIA
9.    Second portion release conditions have been satisfied, in accordance with the Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, with the exception of the conditions
regarding: (i) financial discipline; (ii) privatization of banks; (iii) IAS Chart of Accounts
for banks; and, (iv) the Government report stating it is current in its obligations to banks.
I  Loan Agreement: Schedule 4, Section I, Items 5 and 8.
2  Loan Agreement: Schedule 4, Section I, Items 11, 12, 16 and 17.
3  For instance, the redundancy package designed under the SPAL was tailored to estimated labor
shedding under the FESAL.
4   The Government of Romania was granted a 13 month Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF, in the
amount of SDR301.5 million, on April 22, 1997.
4



Other conditions, regarding enterprise restructuring, were only partialy met bu't have now
been superseded by the new, stronger program developed with the Bank.
A - Macr oneoic Framework. Enterprise Sector and CaoitW  M       -'ai
Macroeconomic framework
10.  lThe new G6vernment has adopted a balanced macroecohonuc -policy program
including (i) liberaliziton of the exchange rate (h) contkniroent of the budget deficit; (iii)
liberalization of tariffs and prices; and (iv) remnoval of exports bans and quotas. 'This
satisfies the requirement that a proper macroeconomic framework be'in plac*. In addition,
on April 22, 1997, the Board of the IM  approved a new '13-month Standby Arrangement
with Romania, in an amount of SDR 301.5 million.
Privatization of SOEs
11.   As of May 1, 1997, a cumulative 2,865 SOEs have been privatized in accordance
with the definition agreed at negotiation5 of which 68 are large enterprises, 473 are
medium-sized and 2,324 are small. This satisfies the condition for second portion release
of 2750 privatizations, including at least 50 large and 400 medium-sized enterprises. An
additional group of 532 former SOEs are majority-owned by private shareholders,
although they do not satisfy the more stringent definition of privatization used for the
FESAL.
12.   In addition, the Romanian mass privatization program has been successfully
completed, with a remarkable 93 percent subscription rate. As a result, over 13 million
Romanians have become shareholders in rnore than 5,500 enterprises. Furthermore, the
new Government has agreed with the Bank to alter the privatization strategy and methods
in such a way that the residual shares of the mass privatized enterprises will be swiftly sold
at auction, by tender or through the RomaLnian OTC market (called the RASDAQ).
Blocks of shares will be offered for sale, without a reservation price nor conditions of sale,
to the highest bidder, at a pace of about 200 offerings every month. Already, 1,060
enterprises have been offered for sale at auction and 454 have effectively been privatized,
under the more cumbersome payments facilities followed previously. Larger enterprises
will be sold either by IPO through the Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE). Four offerings
are scheduled to take place in July 1997, to be followed by two more offerings every
month. Lastly, the privatization of 100 large and medium-sized enterprises is being
subcontracted to international privatization agents. Forty two contracts have already been
signed and five sales already completed. A team of consultants, managed by the Bank and
For an enterprise to be considered as privati zed under the FESAL, either 90 percent of the stock
must havc been transferred to private owners or at least 5 I percent of the stock must have been
purchased by a single private sector.
6 Loan Agreement: Schedule 4. Section 1. Itern 1, which reads: Achievement of numeric privatization
targets for CCs as agreed with the Bank.
5



financed by a PHRD Grant, is presently assisting the State Ownership Fund (SOF) in e, 
hiring and supervising these privatization agents. Therefore, the privatization target of i
3,600, including at least 100 large and 500 medium-sized SOEs-which is the conditio'n for
third portion releaseis expected to be met before the eLnfd of the year
Capital Market Development
13. The system for registratioik and trading of dawes has been established and activated
in late 19967. Therefore, this condift  for socond goion release is satisfied. The
development of the Romanian capital market is a remarkable success story. It is recelving
strong support from bilateral donors (USAID, EU Phare, the British Know How Fund and
the Canadian Development Agency). A Securities Exchange Commission is operating and
most regulations are in place. An independen,ly run share registry and a depository are
operating. The very dynamic OTC market (the RASDAQ) is developing fast: 450
enterprises are actively traded every day, while more than 2,500 are already listed. The
BSE has now 26 listed enterprises. By late April, the volume of weekly transactions
reached ROL 35 billion. Weekly transactions in the RASDAQ had reached ROL 50
billion. This timely development of a vibrant capital market will greatly facilitate the post-
mass privatization trading of shares, to foster concentration of shareholdings and better
governance of privatized firms.
Private Sector Development
14.   The Romanian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has created a nation-wide
network of one-stop-shops for enterprise registration. Coupled with administrative
simplification which has been implemented, enterprises can now be registered technically
in less than a weekS. This satisfies the condition for second portion release. .Furthermore,
the Government has submitted to the Parliament amendments to the Corporate Law (Law
31/91) in a such way that formalities for registration of firms will be simplified fiurther.
Enterprise Restructuring
15.   The new Government program--presented in para.7(c) above--addresses the issue
of loss-making SOEs in a much more focused and decisive manner than the program. The
new program provides for privatization, closure or drastic loss-reduction measures for a
group of 68 important loss-making SOEs which together accounted for 72 percent of the
losses of the entire SOE sector in the first three quarters of 1996. The original program of
financial isolation tried to deal with I51 SOEs, but many of these were small, and together
they accounted for only around 40 percent of the losses of the sector in 1995. The
Government has also issued a Decision to dissolve the Romanian Oil Company, the recent
establishment of which had created a monopoly in the oil sector. This decision paves the
Loan Agreement: Schedule 4. Section 1. Item 2, which reads: Establishment and activation of a
system for the registration and trading in shares of CCs.
8 Loan Agreement: Schedule 4. Section 1. Item 3, which reads: Establishment of a simplified
procedure, agreed with the Bank, for the registration of new enterprises.
6



way for the liberalization and privatization of the oil industry. It wil also remove a major
obstacle to foreign investment.
16.   Among the Core Group of 13 Commercial Companies (CC,) Wageted for
restructuring under the original progra9, two ,werei,azd ,(A     lw     ,e and the
five steel enterprises (Sidex, Siderurgicq  Republica, SidercC,ost)mnd canic
improved their performance in 1996 up to the point. tW  they no loW6r wpOar .iti the
group of the largest 200 loss-makers. Thus they could have exited from Xo uueice
program. This initial target group of CCs-viich no longer includes the larest loss-
makers-has been replaced by a larger selection of 41 CCs, representing 12.5 percent of
the losses of the SOE sector in the first 3 quarters of 1996. Among these CCs, one has
been sold, another has been declared bankrupt,; seven are being closed (with liquidators
already appointed), and the other 33 have been offeredfor sale, to be advertised
imnminently in two international business joumals.
17.   The Core Group of six Regies Autonomesl° (RAs) did not improve their financial
perfornance in 1996. Moreover, four other national RAs and a number of local RAs,
which were not selected initially, accumulated large losses and became as problematic as
the initial group. The Government realized that, although cost reduction measures are
vithout doubt essential for all those enterprises, most of the losses were the result of
tariffs (utilities) or output prices (mines) which had been administratively set in 1996 at a
level which could not possibly allow these firms to recover their costs.
18.   Under the new program, two groups of RAs have been defined: (i) a group of 19
.utilities and (ii) a group of 8 other RAs (of which 6 rmines), which together generated 31
and 29 percent of the losses of the SOE sector, respectively. Drastic action has been
taken on both groups. For the first, utility tariffs were raised to a level which ensures
adequate cost recovery. For instance, industrial electricity and railway passenger tariffs
were raised by 190 percent and 100 percent respectively, on March 1, 1997. The utilities
are also implementing cost reduction plans, which are monitored under investment
projects of the Bank and EBRD in the power, oil and gas, rail transport and water sectors.
As a result of the sharp tariff adjustments and of cost cutting measures, losses of these
utilities have been stemmed in the first months of 1997.
19.   The six mining RAs in the second group, which employed 170,000 workers,
generated 23.5 percent of the losses of the entire SOE sector in 1996. There again,
drastic action has been undertaken by the new Government. Twenty-three unprofitable
9 Loan Agreement: Schedule 4. Section I. Item 4, which reads: The Govermment of the Borrower to
submit a report to the Bank, demonstrating in a manner acceptable to the Bank that substantial
progress has been made in implementing the financial recovery plans of the Core Group of CCs,
including meeting the aggregate and specific benchmarks agreed with the Bank.
to  Loan Agreement: Schedule 4. Section I. Item 7, which reads: The Borrower has submitted a report to
the Bank, demonstrating with respect to the Core Group of RAs substantial progress measured
against detailed benchmarks as agreed with the Bank in the implementation of their financial
recovery programs.
7



pits have been closed during the first quarter of 1997. Employment has been reduced by
3,518. Prices of mining products have been increased to world levels. As a result, the
losses of this group have been reduced by 36 percent in real terms during the first quarter
of 1997. Furthermore, detailed cost-cutting plans have been drafted. They have been
reviewed and dKeemed satisfactory to the Bank. If implenented as planned, they would.
reduce the losses of these mines by two third in real tems over the whole of 1997.
Employment would also be reduced by around 33,500. i.e. by arouidd 20 percent ofthe
present labor force.
20.   U.nder this new program, the Government has addressed vigorously the issue of
SOE losses and has imposed loss reduction measures which have already yielded results
beyond those expected of the original surveillance regime. At the same time, slignificant
progress has been.achieved toward mneeting the agreed numeric targets for exit from the
surveillance regime". Out of the original group of 151 SOEs placed under surveillance,
11 have been privatized, 19 have been (or are being) liquidated and 5 have generated a
positive cash flow over the last two quarters. Out of the group of 22 SOEs placed in
isolation in 1993, four have been privatized and one has been liquidated12
21.   In consideration of the above, the conditions for second portion release. as per
Schedule 4. Section I. Items 4. 6 and 7 of the Loan Agreement. are satisfied. while a
waiver is proposed for Item S.
Enterprise financial discipline
22.   The amount of payments overdue to RENEL by more than 30 days were not to
increase in nominal terms above the level of September 30, 1995, (i.e. Lei 686.8 billion)'3.
This condition had been satisfied during much of 1996. However, the aggravation of the
financial blockage during the last months of 1996--which was induced in large part by the
increasing losses generated by the utilities--made this objective unsustainable. By March
30, 1997, these payment arrears had increased to Lei 781 billion. Furthermore, as a result
of the increase by 190% in industrial electricity prices on March 31, these payment arrears
increased to Lei 1,200 billion. The same phenomenon has been observed with the gas
utility, ROMGAZ. Thus, arrears to these two utilities (representing 2/3 of arrears to
utilities) increased by 33 percent in nominal terms in April which, while less than the price
Loan Areement: Schedule 4. Section I. Item 5. which reads: Exit of at least fifty (S0) CCs from the
surveillance program established by Government Decision 212/95, out of which at least twenty (20)
CCs, which have not been placed under isolation under Government Decision 301/93, have been
privatized or liquidated, while the remainder of the fifty (50) CCs have re-established, to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank, a positive cash flow.
12 Loan Afreement: Schedule 4. Section 1. Item 6. which reads: Completion of an additional five (5)
privatization's or liquidations out of the group of CCs placed in isolation under Government
Decision 301/93.
13  Loan Agreement: Schedule 4. Section I. Items 8, which reads: Substantial progress in the
implementation of the mechanism to forestall future build up of arrears in the energy sector, as
measured against benchmarks agreed upon with the Bank.
8



increases, was still an increase nominal terms. However, arrears to the othertilites
actually decreased by 21 percent in nominal terms. This situation is theshort teri insIRt
of the steep increao in the price of energy, which was necesary to refied Xtw .cost-of
energy and to ensure full cost cvy of these udlites It will.take some dnforthot s
price increas  to be normally aosorbed through the system. RENEL and ROMGAZ have
considerably increased their preure on late payers, through suspension 8fAie. fr is
expected that financial discipline will be progressively restored in 1997, e lly since
the Governmeut is more fbrc6fi ly addressn the Jproblem at the bource,'bilqwdating or
privatizing hin-viable energy-intensive filrn. In consequence, a waiver of tis condition is
propRosed-
Imposition of a hard budget constraint'4
23.   By repealing Ordinance 13/95, which created the surveillance regime, the new
Government has also terminated the Financial Recovery Fund. Furthermore, the
Emergency Ordinance amending the Privatization Law 58/91 now forbids the State
Ownership Fund from financing SOE restructuring. Lastly, the subsidies allocated by the
budget to the RAs in 1997 have been cut 'by more than half. As a result, the external
financial support to SOEs has been reduced below the limits agreed with the Bank. This
condition for second portion release is satisfied.
B - Bankine Sector
Bank Privatization
24.   The FESAL program envisages the privatization of two state-owned banks.
Initial preparations for the privatization of the Romanian Bank for Development'5 (RBD)
were made at the time of the first portion release in December 1995, but irnplementation
was delayed pending the approval by Parliament of a Bank Privatization Law, which was
under discussion for many months in 1996 and early 1997. The Law was finally passed by
the Parliament and was been promulgatedl by the President in May 1997.
25.   The previous preparatory work arLd valuation of RBD undertaken by Credit
(Commercial de France and Deloitte and l'ouche are to be updated from end-1995 to April
1.997 as soon as the Privatization Commission for RBD is appointed. Implementation is
expected to follow swiftly, given the excellent financial condition of the RBD, the
advanced state of preparedness of its management, and the considerable investor interest
in RBD.
14 Loan Agreement: Schedule 4. Section 1. Item 9 which reads: Observance of the limnits on financial
support by the Government of the Borrower, the Financial Recovery Fund and SOF to state-owned
enterprises as agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank.
Loan Agreement: Schedule 4. Section I. Item 11, which reads: Implementation of the privatization
action plan of the Romanian Bank for Development, as agreed with the Bank and as adjusted, if
necessary, in order to reflect the mandatory provisions of the new bank privatization law, if enacted.
9



26.    Regarding the second bank to be privatized"6, the authorities have selected Banc
Post. Preparatory work has already been undertaken, which can be riadily updated or"c a
Privatization Advisor is selected. In consideration of the above. a waiver-ii prodosdin
respect of the two second portion rdease conditions for bank privatizatiQn..
NBR Supervision
27.'  In compliance with the conditions listed, as per Schedule 4, Section l, Itei  10,
1318 and 14"9 of the Loan Agreemer4, the NBk has submitted the required reports.
satis&ictory to the Bank, and has increased the staff in its Supervision Departinent to its
full complement. All banks in Romania are currently being audited by independent
external auditors, which is a requirement now included in the amended Law on Banks and
Banling Activity which is presently awaiting Parliamentary approval. In consideration of
the above. these conditions for second portion release are satisfied. Ini addition, the
powers of the NBR to supervise the banking system will be enhanced by i number of
amendments to the banking laws20 which have been approved by the Government for
submission to Parliament. Passage of the improved laws is expected to occur by the end
of June, 1997.
Deposit Insurance
28.    The second portion condition relating to Government endorsement of a detailed
deposit insurance scheme2' was met by Parliamentary approval in 1996 of a Deposit
Insurance Law. The new scheme is already operational (a third portion release condition),
and the Deposit Insurance Fund is building up gradually from contributions. This
16 Loan Aereement: Schedule 4. Section 1. Item 12 which reads: Finalization of a privanizat.ion plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for a second bank to be privatized, and approval by the general assembly of
shareholders, the Govemrnent of the Borrower, and the NBR, of such privatization action plan.
17  Schedule4. Section I. Items 10, which reads: Submission to the Bank of a report prepared by NBR,
demonstrating the compliance of the banks under NBR's supervision with its circular and prudential
regulations, relating to loss provisioning, capital adequacy and the distribution of net profits, and
describing the measures taken against non-complying banks
is  Schedule 4. Section I. Items 13, which reads: Submission to the Bank of a report prepared by NBR
demonstrating progress satisfactory to the Bank in the implementation of Regulation No. 3195,
issued by NBR in respect of collateralization of NBR's refinancing credits to banks.
1   Schedule 4. Section I. Items 14, which reads: NBR has: (i) increased the staff of its banking
supervision department to its full complement; (ii) provided a report demonstrating that on-site
inspections of banks have been carried out in accordance with the inspection program agreed upon
with the Bank; and (iii) issued a regulation requiring mandatory audits of bankss by independent
external auditors.
20  The Law on Banks and Banking Activity, the Law on the NBR Statute, and the new Law on Bank
Insolvency.
21  Schedule 4. Section 1, Items 15, which reads: Endorsement by the Government of the Borrower and
NBR of a detailed proposal for a deposit insurance scheme, agreed with the Bank.
10



onition for second portion release is satisfied. The Bank has also recommended to the
Government that the adequacy of the funding be reviewed, with a view to increasing the
levies on the banks and obtaining a specific contribution from the State budget.
Chart of Accounts for Banks
29.   Preparations are far advanced to require commercial banks to adopt a new Chart
of Accounts'7 based on Iriteinal AccoiAting Standards (lAS) as from January 1,
1998. The new LAS Chart of Accounts has already been tested on a pilot basis in a
representadve sample of four banks (large and small, state-owned and private) with a view
to NBR forsnally issuing the Accounting Regulations for Banks on or before June 30,
1997, in order that all banks can operate on 'a arallel basis under the old and new systems
during the second half of calendar 1997 and switch to the new system only at the
beginning of 1998. In consideration of the above. a waiver is proposed in respect of this
second portion release condition.
Government Report demonstrating that it is current in its obligations to banks
30.   The Ministry of Finance is preparing a report stating that, with the exception of its
obligations to the Banca Agricola, which are the subject of a separate agreement in the
context of the Banca Agricola restructuring, the Government is either (i) current in all its
obligations to banks; or (ii) has agreed to a schedule for complying promptly with any
overdue obligationsiS. This report is expected to be delivered to the Bank by June 15,
1997. In consideration of the above, a waiver is proposed in respect of this second
portion release condition.
The restructuring of Banca Agricola
31.   Although not a second portion release condition of FESAL, the restructuring of
Banca Agricola has become a vital element in the banking reform program, given the size
of this banks (the largest in Romania, aside from the CEC), and the extreme financial
difficulties of this institution that became evident in 1996 and early 1997. The
Governrnent has recently agreed to take vigorous action to restore the bank's credibility,
solvency and liquidity by: (i) appointing new management immediately, who will sign a
comprehensive Governance Contract with the Government, the State Ownership Fund and
the NBR; (ii) swapping Lei 2.7 trillion of Treasury bills and bonds in exchange for the
written-down bad loan portfolio; (iii) requiring Banca Agricola to execute and realize
collateral estimated to be worth Lei 2 trillion (book value Lei 6.5 trillion); (iv) establishing
an Advisory Conmmittee, to which the new management must report quarterly; and (v)
hiring internationally experienced advisors to assist the new management in downsizing
17  Schedule 4. Section I. Items 16, which reads: Issuance of a regulation by NBR introducing a uniform
chart of accounts for banks in accordance with internationally accepted accounting standards.
i  Schedule 4. Section I. Items 17, which reads: The Government of the Borrower has prepared a report
demonstrating that it is current with all its payment obligations to banks, including in respect of
principal and interest due to banks in accordance with Law 7/92 and ordinance 1194.
l11



and turning round the bank, with a view to preparing Banca Agricola for eventual
ptivatization. A comprehensive letter has been sent by the Government to the Bibk and
EBRD, setting out these steps in detail. These actions are expected to reverse ti
declining fortunes of Banca Agricola, a necessary step to restoring confidence in the
banking system.
U.L CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION
32.  In summary, the program being supported by the FESAL went off track in
1996, as the previous Government in the period before the election did not implement
or enforce several of the key measures (in particular with regard to financial
discipline). Since taking office, however, the newly-elected Government developed
(with the assistance of the Bank) a significantly stronger program than the original one,
announced the program publicly in February, and then immediately implemented the
key first phase of it.
33.   Given the progress achieved to date with respect to implementation of the new
program and compliance with the conditions indicated above, I am satisfied that the
second portion release is wanranted. It is proposed that the Executive Directors approve
the waiver of the conditions specified in Schedule 4, Section I, Items 5, 8, 11, 12, 16 and
17 of the Loan Agreement. Upon such approval, the Bank will notify the Borrower that
the second portion of USS80 rnillion equivalent is available.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
12



Appendix 5. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
The FESAL operation has been related to a program that proved to be much more
comprehensive and ambitious in the conditions of a duration of two years, out of which
the first year has been an electoral year. It is known that the election year is normally lost
from the point of view of progress, all forces being concentrated on winning the election
and not on the fulfillment of agreed conditionalities. It also proved impossible for one
Government to put in practice the conditionalities negotiated and agreed by another
Government.
As a matter of fact, this situation has also been reached because of the unusual long
period of time for preparing the program (1 992-Jan 1996), almost 4 years, which meant
big expenditures for Bank, results non reflecting the expenditures level, notwithstanding
significant progress have been made for the structural reform.
A short comparison with the similar programs in other countries shows the conclusion
that, besides the fact that the FESAL has covered a quite difficult period, the
conditionalities in the program were too tough as compared with other countries.
Both the Bank and the borrower have drawn lessons from this program for future
operations. Specific programs with well defined conditionalities and not including
election years, have important chances to be successful. Moreover, the World Bank
initiative for long term strategies - 1 Oyears (the CDF) - is a very good opportunity to
prepare programs in order to maintain the trend of the reforms irrespective of the different
Governments that might manage the implementation of such programs.



Appendix 6. General Map



IBRD 2871 0
22      ,                                                                                  26        j2
24~    UKRAINE                           ToLvv1                                                        R O M A N I A
- S                     /ToKolomTyo n I0,                                                                                       ELEVATIONS ABOVE 500 METERS
.-j                                                        BOTOSANI                                      e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oCOUNTY (JUIDET) CENTERS
| 8- H U N  G  A  R Y                                                                                                                                                 0       °@ ON UE ER
bi .=   NATIONAL CAPITAL
1-              ~~~~~EXPRESSWAY
C  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,MAJOR ROADS
T. KiAi-     j3.OTHER PORTS
/UG                                                                                                          O         SLA    V A  I AE. 4   n      _    T  A  RIVERS
T. Bodopon0                                                                                                                                                                     COUINTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
_ O Thiswosroducke    A         b    y                      L J                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS
25     55      75      1 00
T. S-Sj   A R A 0                                                                                                                        0   10 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O ~~3'0  40  5'0  60
Arod                                                                                                                                                                              MIL ES /  10 M0    S
4W~
A I j
(Serbia/Mon~~Tengo All I                                                                                                                               EAIr         GALATI         A   T
Mop Dnnign Und of TOo World Book ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~csn                                                                      UK     AI     
TOo Mndo4o, coln, doooiooiooo  alafo             '~                                                           T VorJ
ondonyotlron moPon,notioosho~~~~~~~~~~~~~onZAo
thin  nop  do oat n~~~~~~~~p1y, on ISo poll of  *  .~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~   I                                                                            Mo~~~nBOIaI
TOo World Book Onaap, any jad5otoot           -.-/                                                                                                              '-C>-~~~~~~~~~~~0 VARA LA;
ohoI9IT.ta of 1yloaSood  
YUo G O SLAVi IA.                  2                                 C4                  BU GARA                                 2                                                2B      Yo aoS
(Serbia/Montenegro)                                                                                                              I d'                ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY19



