Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6672-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SINGLE CURRENCY LOAN
WITH
A US DOLLAR TRANCHE IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO US $170 MILLION
A DEUTSCHE MARK TRANCHE IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO DEM135 MILLION
AND
A FRENCH FRANC TRANCHE IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO FFR100 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
DECEMBER 6, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of December 6, 1995)
Currency Unit   =  Leu (plural Lei)
I Leu   =  100 bani
lLeu   =  USS0,0004
US$1   =  Lei 2,535
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AR         -         Agency for Restructuring
BA         -         Banca Agricola
BP         -         Banc Post
BPTF       -         Bank Privatization Task Force
BSE        -         Bucharest Stock Exchange
CC         -         Commercial Company
CCSER      -         Council for Coordination, Strategy and Economic Reform
CEC        -         Savings Bank
CIB        -         Credit Information Bureau
CO         -         Certificate of Ownership
DFI        -         Direct Foreign Investment
DSR        -         Department for Selective Restructuring
EBRD       -         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU         -         European Union
FESAL      -         Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FRF        -         Financial Recovery Fund
FRP        -         Financial Recovery Program
GD         -          Government Decision
GOR        -          Government of Romania
ICB        -         International Competitive Bidding
IDP        -         Industrial Development Project
IPO        -         Initial Public Offering
MEBOs    -           Management and Employee Buyouts
MOF        -         Ministry of Finance
MPP        -         Mass Privatization Program
NAP        -         National Agency for Privatization
NBR        -         National Bank of Romania
NSC        -         National Securities Commission
POFs       -         Private Ownership Funds
PSD        -         Private Sector Development
RA         -         Regie Autonome
RBFT       -         Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade
RBD        -         Romanian Bank for Development
RCB        -         Romanian Commercial Bank
RDA        -         Romanian Development Agency
SAL        -         Structural Adjustment Loan
SOCB       -         State-Owned Commercial Banks
SME        -         Small and Medium Enterprises
SOEs       -         State-owned Enterprises
SOF        -         State Ownership Fund
TA         -         Technical Assistance
VAT        -         Value Added Tax
WOD        -         Work-Out Department
GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (FESAL)
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:              Romania
Implementing Agencies:  Ministry of Finance and National Bank of Romania
Beneficiary:           Not applicable
Poverty Category:      Not applicable
Amount:                US$280 million equivalent. The currency composition of the proposed
Loan would be the following:
- USD 170 million
- DEM 135 million (rUS$90 million equivalent)
- FFR 100 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Payable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR- (PIBOR-) based single currency loans in
these currencies.
Commitment Fee:       .0.75% of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Description:           The proposed Loan would provide balance of payments support to the
Government to help it pursue its stabilization and structural reform
program. The principal objectives of the reform program are: (a) a sharp
acceleration of the privatization of state-owned enterprises; (b) the
enforcement of hard budget constraints and discipline on remaining state-
owned enterprises; (c) the elimination of constraints to private sector
development; (d) the restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks;
(e) the strengthening of the supervisory and surveillance capacity of the
National Bank of Romania; and (f) the development of capital markets.
The disbursement of the loan will be linked to conditionalities specified for
each portion release.
Benefits:              Implementation of structural reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors
under this operation will enhance Romania's prospects for growth and will
reinforce the sustainability of its macroeconomic stabilization.
Privatization will increase efficiency in the economy as enterprises will be
better suited to respond to changes in market conditions and consumer
demands. Improved financial discipline and stronger governance will
reduce losses and arrears in the State-owned Enterprise sector freeing
resources for private sector development. Financial sector reforms would
provide the basis for building up a sound and efficient financial
intermediation system and the development of a new capital market. The
program will also lead to substantially strengthened regulatory and
supervisory capabilities of NBR. Economic stability and growth would
help Romania achieve creditworthiness and gain easier and cheaper access
to external finance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not othenwise be disclosed widhout World Bank authorization.



Risks:                The main risks associated with the proposed Project stem from the
complexity and political difficulty of implementing the ambitious
Government program. Slippages in the macrostabilization would further
complicate the implementation of the program, and would reduce its
expected benefits. The local and national elections scheduled for 1996 may
increase pressure for the Government to relax its strict policies with respect
to financial discipline and budgetary stringency. The complexity of the
Mass Privatization Program creates the risk that privatization may be
delayed because of implementation problems. However, this risk has been
greatly reduced by the large number of privatizations which have already
taken place and by the adoption of several market-based mechanisms for
privatization, which will be in effect simultaneously with the Mass
Privatization Program. Overall, the risks appear manageable and the
Government of Romania has demonstrated a strong commitment to reform
by implementing many of the policy measures proposed under the FESAL
before the approval of the loan.
Estimated
Disbursement:         The proposed Loan would be disbursed in four portions, including a
floating portion. The first portion of US$60 million would become
available upon loan effectiveness, expected by early 1996, the second
portion of US$80 million six to nine months later and the third portion of
US$100 a further six to nine months later, upon a review, satisfactory to
IBRD, of successful implementation of the adjustment program as a whole
and fulfillment of specific portion release conditions. The release of the
floating portion of US$40 million would become available as soon as
benchmarks, linked to the downsizing of the enterprises included in a
surveillance program, are met; such benchmarks are specified in terms of
reduction of employment within these enterprises. The Loan would
reimburse 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of eligible imports,
with eligibility determined by a small negative list, agreed between the
Government and IBRD. Contracts costing less than US$250,000 and
goods financed by other donors would not be eligible for financing under
the Loan.
Financing Plan:       Not applicable
Map:                  IBRD 27424
Project ID Number:    RO-PA-8773



ROMANIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (FESAL)
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
INTRODUCTION   ...................................                                    1
II.           THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT   .....................                                     2
A. Recent Economic Developments  .......................                           2
B. Need for Structural Change ..........................                            3
C. Macroeconomic Prospects ...........................                             3
II.         THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR   .......................... .                                  5
A. Enterprise Sector Profile ............................                          5
B. Privatization Strategy   .............................                          7
C. Strengthening Financial Discipline in the Enterprise Sector      ......          8
D. Fiscal Costs of Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization      .......         10
E. Private Sector Development ..........................                           11
IV.          THE FINANCIAL SECTOR   ............................                                  12
A. Overview of the Financial Sector ......................                        12
B. Problems and Challenges Facing the Banking System             .........         13
C. Public Policy Issues   ..............................                          15
D. Capital Markets Development .........................                          17
V.           THE REFORM  PROGRAM   .............................                                  17
A. FESAL Support to Enterprise Sector Development and Reform   . ..               17
B. FESAL Support to Financial Sector Policy and Bank Restructuring  .             23
VI.          THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN  ............                   ..     ............           26
A. Rationale for Banks' Involvement ......................                        26
B. World Bank Group and IMF Support  ...................                          27
C. Conditions of Board Presentation and for Release of the Second,
Third and Floating Portions .........................                        28
D. Loan Features and Components  .......................                          28
E. Procurement and Disbursement  .......................                          28
F. Monitoring Arrangements  ...........................                           29
G. Environmental Assessment Requirements  .................                       30
VII.         BENEFITS AND RISKS  ...............................                                  30
VIII.        RECOMMENDATION   ................................                                    30



Annexes. Schedules and Map:
Annex 1.   Letter of Development Policy (LDP)
Annex 2.   Policy Matrix
Annex 3.   Status of IMF Operations in Romania
Annex 4.   Key Economic Indicators
Annex 5.   External Financing Requirements and Projected Sources of Financing
Schedule B. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Schedule C. Time table of Key Processing Events
Schedule D. Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
Map of Romania
Documents in Project File
1.    Financial Performance of State-Owned Enterprises in 1994
2.    Summary Balance Sheets of Main State-Owned Banks, as of December 31, 1994
3.    Financial Isolation and Financial Recovery Plans of Regies Autonomes
4.    Action Plan for Private Sector Development
5.    Ordinance 13/1995
6.    Law on Acceleration of Privatization (Law 55/95)



REPORT AND RECOM4ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO ROMANIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Financial and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL) to Romania for the equivalent of US$280 million to
provide financial support for the Government's adjustment program. The Loan will comprise single
currency tranches in US Dollars, Deutsche Marks and French Francs and will be payable in twenty
years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR- (PIBOR-) based
single currency loans.
2.          Romania is a lower-middle income country with a population of about 23 million and a
per capita GDP estimated at US$1,280 in 1994. Following the demise of the previous regime in
December 1989, Romania faced a daunting agenda of systemic and structural reforms in the transition
to a market economy. A large volume of legislation has been passed establishing new institutions and
the fundamental statutory framework required to govern public and private economies in a market
setting. Following a poor initial performance in the early years of the transition, the macroeconomic
policy framework improved in late 1993. Since then the budget deficit has averaged less than 2% of
GDP, and inflation abated from about 300 percent in 1993 to about 60 percent in 1994 and to an
estimated 35 percent in 1995. Substantial progress was also made since 1993 in implementing
systemic and structural reform. Trade liberalization has proceeded swiftly; prices have been largely
liberalized; most consumer subsidies have been removed; and the social safety net has been
revamped.
3.          The proposed adjustment program would build on and complement the reforms already
undertaken by the Government since 1990 supported by the World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL). The Government program, to be supported by the proposed FESAL, would address the main
structural issues of the financial and enterprise sectors through an integrated approach that includes:
In the Enterprise Sector:
(a)  an acceleration of state-owned enterprise (SOE) privatization, including a mass
privatization program (MPP). This is the cornerstone of the program;
(b)  enforcement of hard budget constraints on remaining SOEs. The major lossmakers and
the enterprises carrying the largest payment arrears have been placed in a special
surveillance program, where their management is required to reduce costs, restore
financial viability and negotiate agreements with their creditors on the basis of a
credible financial recovery plan, failing which they would face liquidation;
(c)  implementation of an action plan to stimulate private sector development;



-2-
In the Financial Sector:
(d)  gradually raising the soundness of the Romanian banking system by:
(i)  phasing-in collateralization of the National Bank of Romania (NBR) refinancing
by requiring collateralization of its credit lines;
(ii) strengthening the supervisory and surveillance capacity of NBR;
(iii) enhancing competition and the role of the private sector in the banking system by
accelerating the privatization of at least one state-owned bank and downsizing the
others;
(e)  limitation of the recapitalization of banks by the state;
(f)  introduction of a limited deposit insurance scheme for individual deposits with all banks;
and
(g)  opening of the Bucharest Stock Exchange.
II. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
A. Recent Economic Developments
4.          From 1989 through 1993, the Romanian economy suffered from major dislocations.
Output fell by 32 percent, with industrial output down 54 percent. Unemployment rose to 10 percent
of the labor force, while real wages fell by about 30 percent. From a situation of current account
balance-of-payments surpluses, large deficits opened, with a corresponding accumulation of foreign
debt. To some extent, the continuing deterioration was due to external factors such as the collapse of
the CMEA, the Gulf crisis and the ongoing turmoil in Yugoslavia.
5.         Romania's initial attempts at stabilizing the economy in 1991 and 1992 were not
successful. Inflation remained high. Implementation problems and fiscal and credit policies,
including insufficient financial discipline in SOEs, played a major role in creating macro imbalances.
Extra budgetary funds, directed credit programs and other quasi-fiscal expenditures added to the
formal budget deficit to generate serious macroeconomic problems.
6.         However, a major fiscal adjustment took place in 1993. The general government deficit
fell by 6 percentage points of GDP. Although the external situation also improved in 1993, it did not
fully reflect the gains from the large fiscal deficit reduction because of the remaining high gap
between non-government savings and investments, largely attributable to continued SOE losses. The
authorities also imposed a significantly tighter monetary policy, raising interest rates sharply.
Commercial bank lending rates became positive in real terms for the first time since 1990.
7.         The turnaround in macro-stabilization has been broadly maintained: fiscal deficits have
been kept under tight control, averaging about 2 percent of GDP in 1993-95; inflation has fallen to an
annual rate of 25 percent in mid-1995. Growth has recovered to 3.9 percent in 1994, and is projected
to reach at least 5 percent of GDP in 1995. The current account deficit of the balance of payments
that fell sharply in 1994, to 1.8 percent of GDP, is likely to widen to nearly 5 percent of GDP in
1995 as a result of strong import demand stemming from high growth in conjunction with a less than
full liberalization of the foreign exchange market. The Government has thus demonstrated a strong
aund sustained commitment to stabilizing the economy. The stabilization effort has been supported by



-3-
the IMF, most recently through an SBA arrangement approved in May 1994, the extension of which
to 1996 is presently being considered by the Government and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
B. Need for Structural Change
8.         Important successes have also been achieved in structural reforms. In 1991, the
Government instituted a land reform program that resulted in 80 percent of agricultural land being
privately owned. The housing stock was privatized. Also, the majority of state-owned companies
were transformed into commercial entities. Significant progress has been made since mid-1993 in the
liberalization of prices, including elimination of price controls on industrial and agricultural products,
energy and agricultural products, energy products and consumer goods. A VAT system has been
introduced. Also, an open foreign trade regime has been instituted, and a more realistic and
liberalized exchange rate established. The social safety net has been strengthened with the
establishment of an unemployment benefits scheme and the reform of social assistance and pension
systems. These structural reforms have been supported by the SAL and by Bank lending in the
relevant sectors.
9.          Despite progress in other areas of structural reform, the Government has found it
difficult to address the problem of chronic lossmaking enterprises and the associated accumulation of
inter-enterprise arrears. The centerpiece of the SAL was support to a Government program to bring
greater financial discipline to bear upon enterprises. This program was moderately successful in
reducing the volume of arrears through the implementation of a number of actions against delinquent
enterprises. Nevertheless, many of the largest enterprises in trouble sectors are still running
significant losses and have been building up new arrears to banks and to their suppliers.
10.         Continued enterprise losses present a potential threat to macroeconomic stability if the
Government is required to absorb them as had happened in January 1992 under the Government's
global clearing system. Moreover, the slow pace of enterprise adjustment represents a drag upon
economic growth, both through efficiency losses and by crowding out the emerging private sector.
il.         The lack of financial discipline in state enterprises has had a serious negative effect on
the banking system which was forced to provide financing to ailing companies. Bank portfolios have
deteriorated requiring repeated "bailout" schemes. Financial sector reform is needed to improve the
soundness of the banking system and to enhance its role in the allocation of resources.
C. Macroeconomic Prospects
12.        In the next few years, Romania's needed internal adjustment is unlikely to come from
further reductions in the general government deficit. As economic restructuring advances, demands
on expenditure (especially the social safety net) will rise, while there is little scope for revenues to
increase or for public investments to be reduced. The main adjustment will thus have to come from
an increase in non-government savings, especially from cuts in enterprise losses. Faster progress in
enterprise reform is, therefore, essential for a sustainable improvement in macroeconomic balances
without sacrificing growth.



-4-
Table 1: Macroeconomic Framework
(in percent unless otherwise indicated)
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 1999- 2002-
2001  2004
Growth Rate of GDP             -8.8   1.5   3.9   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0
Gross Domestic Investment/GDP    31.4  29.0  26.9  27.5  28.0  29.0  30.0  30.0  30.0
Fixed Investment/GDP       19.2  17.9  19.7  23.0  24.0  25.5  27.0  27.0  27.0
Public Investment/GDP     ..   ..  5.4   5.9   5.9   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.0
Private Investment/GDP    ..   ..  14.3  17.1  18.1  20.2  21.7  21.7  22.0
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP    23.0  24.0  24.7  22.9  24.5  26.2  27.5  28.0  28.8
Exports + Imports /GDP        64.0  51.0  49.4  57.0  59.8  60.5  60.8  61.9  63.5
Fiscal Balance/GDP (General   -4.6  -0.1  -1.9  -2.7  -2.2  -2.0  -2.0  -2.0  -2.0
Government)
Inflation (average)          210.0 256.0 136.0  31.0  20.0  15.0  10.0  10.0  10.0
Real export growth             2.9  10.3  24.3  19.0  11.0   7.0   5.9   5.9   6.0
Real import growth             7.5   2.9   8.9  27.9   5.9   4.5   4.7   5.0   5.0
Current Account Balance/GDP   -7.8  -4.7  -1.7  -4.7  -3.7  -2.8  -2.2  -1.4  -0.4
NBR Gross Reserves (in US$ mn),  870   967  1,556 1,347  1,567  1,995 2,546 3,468 4,650
including gold
NBR Gross Reserves (in US$ mn),   90    43   591   368   571   972 1,498 2,365 3,465
excluding gold
in month of imports        0.2   0.1   0.9   0.4   0.6   0.9   1.3   1.8  2.1
External Debt (US$ million)  3,533 4,456 5,591 6,255 7,383 8,454 9,571 11,000 12,002
External Debt/GDP             18.0  16.9  18.6  18.9  21.1  22.4  23.6  23.5  20.7
External Debt/XGS             69.6  77.4  78.8  72.2  74.8  77.9  81.0  78.4  66.3
Debt Service/XGS               8.8   6.2   9.8  12.6  11.6  10.3  11.1  13.0  12.3
IBRD Debt Guidelines
IBRD Debt Service/Public &     1.8   9.5   5.2   5.0   6.4  11.8  16.0  16.1  19.5
Publicly Guaranteed DS
IBRD DS/XGS                    0.0   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.7   1.2   1.8   2.1   2.4
Preferred Cred./P&PG DS       74.9  40.5  46.3  60.8  61.8  51.0  48.5  39.3  34.0



-5-
13.        The projections given in Table 1 above simulate the performance of the economy under
a scenario of continued adjustment. Stabilization efforts are expected to be maintained and, under the
enterprise reform program supported by the FESAL, greater domestic savings are expected to be
released for productive investments. Thus, economic growth is expected to be sustained at a trend
rate of 5 percent through the end of the decade. The savings rate is projected to increase from
24.7 percent of GDP to 29.1 percent in 2004. Fixed investment is also expected to increase from
19.7 percent of GDP in 1994 to 27 percent in 2034, with increasing shares of this investment being
undertaken by the private sector.
14.        Export growth (projected at an average annual rate of 12 percent between 1995 and
1997) should provide the primary stimulus to growth, brought about by maintaining an open trade and
exchange system and by the increased access to the European Union (EU) markets, following
Romania's signing of the Association Agreement in early 1994. With imports projected to grow
somewhat less than exports--albeit still with a high import elasticity--current account deficits are
expected to be gradually reduced through the end of the decade to a level of about 1.5 percent of
GDP.
15.        In the 1990-94 period, Romania found it difficult to borrow from commercial lenders,
in part because of credibility problems about its commitment to stabilize and to pursue structural
reforms. Early in 1995, however, an international bond issue of US$150 million was oversubscribed,
and the Government intends to return to the capital markets. In view of the previous tight capital
constraint, most of Romania's borrowings have been from official lenders, particularly the IMF, the
World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and the EU. Even
though greater access to finance is becoming available, high expected repayments, as well as the need
to build up reserves, condition the medium-term outlook.
16.        Foreign financing requirements in the 1995-2000 period are high and average
US$2.3 billion annually (see Annex 5) reflecting, in part, high repayments to the IMF and the G-24.
While official financing will continue to play an important role, as adjustment proceeds, and as
companies are privatized, private capital inflows and direct foreign investment (DFI) flows are
expected to rise. Initially, the debt burden is expected to rise. The external debt/GDP ratio is
expected to increase to 23.9 percent before fallinig to around 19 percent in 2004; debt service
payments, reflecting a bulge in repayments, rise sharply in 1999-2000 to an average 13.1 percent,
before declining again. These projections do not include follow-up operations to the present IMF
standby. Continued IMF operations in Romania should not, however, be ruled out. Moreover, it is
possible that Romania will be able to negotiate further bilateral support in 1998-99, to partially offset
the sharp increase in debt service in those years.
III. THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Enterprise Sector Profile
17.        This section describes the present situation in the enterprise sector and discusses the
main features of the Government's ambitious reform program. Privatization, strengthening of the
hard budget constraint faced by SOEs and improving the governance of enterprises are the main
components of this program. Section V describes those elements of the program which are directly
linked to the FESAL.
18.        The first step in the reform of the enterprise sector was the commercialization of SOEs.
This process was completed by mid-1991 resulting in the following two types of enterprises:



-6-
Regies Autonomes (RAs): These are "natural monopolies of public interest or essential for
national defense and security" which are not intended to be privatized. As of November
1995, there were around 400 RAs. Of these, 44 are public utilities owned by the State. The
remaining 350 are "local service" RAs owned by local authorities, municipalities, etc., shortly
to be reduced through mergers and reorganization.
Commercial Companies (CCs): 6,300 joint-stock companies were corporatized in 1990-91.
The capital of each has been split between the State Ownership Fund (SOF), which owns
70 percent, and one of five Private Ownership Funds (POFs) holding the remaining
30 percent. The SOF is a government agency which exercises ownership rights on behalf of
the state until the CCs are privatized. Its by-laws require it to sell the shares of all CCs by
1999. The five POFs are formally owned by all Romanian citizens to whom certificates of
ownership (COs), representing shares of the POFs, were distributed freely in 1992. The
POFs are scheduled to be transformed into private investment funds by early 1996. In the
meantime, their directors are appointed by the Parliament, from a list proposed by the
Government.
19.        In 1994, SOEs (CCs and RAs) accounted for approximately 60 percent of employment
and output. CCs account for roughly 75 percent of SOEs output and roughly 90 percent of reported
employment. The output of the industrial sector, composed almost fully by SOEs, fell by half
between 1989 and 1992 due to the collapse of the CMEA and the drop in trade with the Former
Soviet Union. Industrial production increased by an average of about 2 percent per annum in 1993-
1994, and seems to be growing faster in 1995.
20.         SOEs' aggregate profitability (before tax) has declined from 15 percent of revenues in
1990 to 5 percent in 1993 and to 0.6 percent in 1994. The actual financial situation of the SOE
sector may actually be substantially worse than what is indicated by these ratios. Costs are
underestimated, since they are based on historical cost accounting, and depreciation charges are far
too low. Also, in 1994, enterprises made very limited provisions against uncollectible accounts
receivable, at a time when payment arrears are a major problem. Lastly, revenues are overestimated
as they include production to inventory. On a cash flow basis--which gives a more accurate picture
of their financial health--the SOE sector has generated an aggregate negative operating cash flow of
around 6 percent of GDP. Therefore, many SOEs are cash-starved, even when showing accounting
profits.
21.        In order to continue operating, the largest lossmakers have been financing their
operations by building up arrears with their suppliers, the State Treasury, the banks and, occasionally,
with their payroll. The Romanian authorities' initial reaction to the accumulation of arrears, as was
the case in other transition economies, was to "net out" the stock of arrears with a "Global
Compensation Scheme" (Law 80 of December 1991). Credit was injected into the economy in early
1992 via credits extended by commercial banks to debtors, who were compelled to use the proceeds
to pay down their arrears. Soon after, it became clear that arrears would again begin to accumulate
unless incentives were created to force enterprise to maintain financial discipline. In fact, some large
lossmaking companies have continued to accumulate arrears, in spite of the Government's
commitment not to undertake any further compensation schemes.
22.         Several measures have been taken to improve financial discipline in the enterprise
sector. The legislative basis for enforcing repayment has been strengthened and there is evidence that
it is increasingly being applied. The Commercial Code and other relevant legislation is already
adequate to enable creditors to establish and realize security, to force borrowers into bankruptcy, to
enable creditors to cooperate with the SOF in placing bankrupt companies into liquidation and to use
the threat of taking such actions to force borrowers into implementing restructuring and other
solutions agreed with their creditors. Since 1992, creditors have begun charging interest penalties on



-7-
arrears, presently 0.15 percent per diem, as provided for in Law 76/1992, the passage of which had
been agreed under the SAL agreements. Creditors, notably banks, are initiating a growing number of
court actions to declare debtors insolvent and to realize their security, if necessary, by public auction
of the delinquent debtors' assets. A new Bankruptcy Law has been passed by the Parliament in May
1995. This new law includes a stay on collection actions against a debtor on the initiation of
proceedings, provisions for a plan of reorganization and priority in asset claims for post-bankruptcy
creditors. Finally, privatization, by improving efficiency and changing governance, is expected to
contribute in enhancing financial discipline in the sector.
B. Privatization Strate2y
23.         In 1991, following passage by the Parliament of Law 58/91 (Privatization Law), the
Government adopted a privatization strategy aimed at transferring most of state-owned enterprises to
private ownership within seven years. This initial strategy depended on the effectiveness of the SOF
in selling the 70 percent of shares of CCs that it holds on behalf of the State. Initially, the SOF was
hampered by organizational problems and by the legal requirement to conduct cumbersome
evaluations of the enterprises' worth. For the sale of medium CCs (capital between Lei 2.5 billion
and Lei 18 billion and staff of between 500 and 3,000 employees) and of large CCs (capital of more
than Lei 18 billion and staff of more than 3,000) the SOF relied mostly on direct trade sales to
strategic investors. While the shares of CCs held by the SOF must be paid in cash or in installments,
the shares held by the POFs are exchangeable against COs.
24.         More successful has been the "fast track" approach (based on Management and
Employee Buyout -- MEBO) which has been developed for small CCs (less than Lei 2.5 billion
capital and less than 500 employees). Under such procedure, the shares held by one of the POFs are
typically exchanged against COs held by employees; 15 percent to 20 percent of SOF's shares are
purchased by employees in cash and the balance is payable in installments over two to six years. The
adoption of Law 77/94, extending the use of MEBO to larger CCs, has resulted in a significant
increase in the privatization of medium-size and large CCs in 1995. Table 2 summarizes the results
achieved as of November 13, 1995". The target of 1,500 privatizations--which is a condition for
Board presentation of the FESAL-- has been met in the second part of November 1995.
Table 2: Privatization
Total number of CCs to be privatized   Privatized by November 13, 1995
| Capital I No. of                      |  Capital 1 No. of
Type       Number   (bln. lei)  Employees        Number        (bin. lei) | Employees
Small CCs       3,124        240       497,096        1,073           461      188,264
Medium CCs      2,459      1,824     1,753,828          357         1,992      246,400
Large CCs         708      6,996     1,789,833          54           1,132     147,361
TOTAL           6,291      9,060     4,091,423        1,484         3,585      582,025
25.           To accelerate the pace of privatization, in May 1994 the Government decided to
introduce MPP. The design of the MPP, which aroused fierce debate within Romania, has been
The are the latest detailed data available



-8-
approved by the Parliament with the passage, in June 1995, of a Law for Acceleration of Privatization
(Law 55/95). The main features of the MPP are as follows:
(a)    The program will be implemented during 1995 and 1996.
(b)    Approximately 3,900 CCs of the most profitable CCs are included in the MPP. The
list of CCs was published in August 1995.
(c)    New privatization coupons have been distributed to all adult Romanians in addition to
the existing COs. Unlike the old COs, each new privatization coupon will show the
name of the citizen to whom it is issued, and will be non-transferable. The existing
COs and the new coupons have been given a notional nominal value of Lei 25,000
and Lei 975,000, respectively.
(d)    All holders of the new coupons and of existing COs will be entitled to bid for shares
during a time-bound subscription period. The new coupons plus the existing COs will
be exchanged for up to 60 percent of the shares in selected CCs. All shares will have
a face value of Lei 25,000. They will be exchanged against COs and vouchers at face
value. If the bids for a given company exceed the percentage of the share capital
offered for exchange, the shares will be distributed to the bidders in proportion to
their bids.
(e)    Instead of bidding directly for the shares of a specific CC, individuals can entrust
their COs and coupons to any of the five POFs, which will bid for blocks of shares
on their behalf. Under this second option, Romanian citizens will become
shareholders of the POFs. These POFs will be transformed into investment funds by
March 31, 1996, in accordance with a new Law being submitted to the Romanian
Parliament.
(f)    The shares of CCs remaining in the ownership of the SOF will concurrently be
offered for sale for cash, through all available methods, including auctions, MEBO,
trade sales, and Initial Public Offerings (IPOs). In order to facilitate the cash sales,
the Government has decided to allow the SOF to grant deferred payment facilities to
buyers. These facilities will allow for payment by installments over a period of up to
ten years, with a down payment of 20 to 35 percent and a maximum interest rate of
10 percent per annum2'. The effective price that buyers will need to pay is also
reduced by the fact that the SOF is required to plow back into the privatized
enterprises up to 60 percent of the proceeds of cash sales of shares, to strengthen their
financial situation. Finally, if no buyers can be found, the value of the CC will be
reassessed and the price of the shares may be discounted.
C. Strengthening Financial Discipline in the Enterprise Sector
26.           Some of the largest and least profitable CCs are not immediately privatizable and are
likely to remain temporarily in the public sector. They will be privatized or liquidated over a period
of time extending well beyond 1995. In addition, the 44 RAs of national importance and many of the
local ones, mainly mines and public utilities, are slated to remain in the public sector. The
Government's strategy is to subject these enterprises to the discipline of the market, to force them to
reduce their losses and/or arrears and to maintain or restore a positive cash flow in order to facilitate
2'   Ownership of the shares will be transferred in full from the SOF to the new private buyer as soon as the
down payment is received by the SOF.



-9-
their privatization or to achieve financial autonomy in the case of utilities. For those utilities which
still require budgetary subsidies, the Government's objective is to eliminate or reduce to a minimum
these claims on the budget. This requires the imposition of a hard budget constraint on all enterprises
that remain in the public sector in order to break the vicious circle of losses financed by arrears to
suppliers, the budget and the banking sector.
27.           An initial positive response by the enterprises is being generated by the increasing
severity with which bankruptcy legislation, as well as special legislation against the accumulation of
arrears (punitive interest rates; penalties for managers) are being enforced. These measures,
however, will only gradually become effective, as the civil courts develop the capacity to deal
effectively with bankruptcy cases. In the interim, the state, as the owner of the enterprises, must take
a pro-active approach to induce the major lossmaking enterprises to either cut their losses and arrears
or face liquidation.
28.           Responsibility for the restructuring of CCs that remain in the public sector rests with
the SOF as their majority owner. The branch ministries and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) are
responsible for restructuring the RAs. The SOF has created a Department for Selective Restructuring
(DSR) for the purpose of encouraging and facilitating downsizing and rationalizing ailing enterprises.
Its earlier practice of cross-subsidizing enterprises with injections of its own financial resources will
be severely constrained with the privatization of the most profitable CCs, which will reduce the
SOF's dividend income. The SOF's total expenditures in 1994 were restricted to 0.8 percent of
GDP. The Government reform program calls for a similar cap on such expenditure for 1995.
29.           In order to strengthen the governance of enterprises, a Law on Management Contracts
(Law 66) was passed in October 1993. It provides for a comprehensive framework for performance
contracts to be signed with the management of all CCs and RAs in 1994 and 1995. Performance
contracts have been revised and signed with most RAs of national importance.
30.           The Pilot Isolation Program of a Group of 30 CCs. In July 1993, as part of the
program supported under the SAL, the Government took steps to attack the problem of lossmaking
enterprises and lack of financial discipline by placing a group of 30 medium and large enterprises in a
special program of financial isolation (Government Decision (GD) 301/93). These 30 CCs, which
were selected based on their losses and inter-enterprise arrears, were "isolated" from the banking
system, which denied them access to new credit unless they could demonstrate the ability to repay.
Management of each CC was required to operate on a cash basis and to design a Financial Recovery
Program (FRP). The implementation of these FRPs serves as the basis for ascertaining which
enterprises can be turned around and be privatized and which enterprises need to be liquidated. The
Bank provided technical assistance to support the implementation of the program.
31.           The isolation program of this group of 30 CCs has proved to be a useful learning
device for Romanian enterprises and government officials. While progress in actual privatizations and
liquidations has been limited,' the program has achieved some tangible results: labor has been
significantly reduced, underutilized and idle assets have been sold, uneconomic production lines
closed and, in several cases, poor management has been replaced. Guidelines and procedures have
been established for the design and implementation of FRPs, for conciliation agreements between
creditors and debtors, for monitoring of financial performance and for assessment of management.
Even more importantly, this program introduced in Romania the concept of enterprise restructuring
3'     The liquidation of four of the 30 CCs has been initiated in 1994, with technical assistance financed by the
Bank. The process has been hampered by legal challenges, lack of local expertise and its sheer novelty.
These legal and institutional difficulties have been overcome. The privatization of other CCs of the group
has also been progressing slowly: most of the CCs involved are large, not very attractive and require
significant foreign investments.



-10-
based on cost cutting and internal cash flow generation, without major investment for expansion and
modernization.
32.           The New Surveillance Program. Drawing on the experience of the pilot program of
the first group of 30 CCs, the Government decided in 1994 to extend the isolation concept as a
mechanism for out-of-court conciliation between debtors and creditors. The objective of the expanded
program--called thereafter "surveillance program"-is to place with the enterprises and with their
creditors--mainly the holders of inter-enterprise arrears and the banks--the responsibility for restoring
financial viability to the ailing enterprises to avoid threat of liquidation. CCs designated for the
program are given a limited period of time to prepare and implement FRPs. During this period their
debt service obligations and their access to the bank credit is suspended. A conciliation with the
creditors is then to be negotiated on the basis of the FRPs, if the enterprises can demonstrate that
downsizing and cost-cutting measures can generate a positive cash flow before debt service. Failure
to agree with the creditors on an acceptable FRP, or failure to implement it and obtain the agreed
results, will result in partial or total liquidation of the enterprise. It is expected that the most
successful CCs will "graduate" from the surveillance through privatization.
33.           The RAs would undergo a similar process as the CCs. However, in the case of the
RAs, neither liquidation nor privatization is a realistic option. Instead, the FRPs quantify the
budgetary support that is justified to finance these enterprises in the context of their FRPs, within the
constraints of the overall budgetary caps established by the stabilization program. The prospect of
removal of budgetary contributions, which are not justified in the context of agreed FRPs, is expected
to provide adequate incentives to the management of the RAs to vigorously pursue cost cutting, cash
flow enhancement, and arrears reduction measures, as well as to seek financial conciliation
agreements with their creditors.
34.           In January 1995, the Government issued Ordinance 13/95 which provides the legal
foundation for the surveillance program. The Government placed 151 SOEs (9 RAs and 142 CCs)
under the surveillance regime by GD 212/95. The list of 142 CCs includes the 40 largest lossmakers
and holders of payables in arrears, in addition to enterprises in the initial isolation program. The
remaining enterprises, about 70, are from the pig and poultry sectors, and the Government placed
them in the program to force restructuring in a sector which is one of the largest recipients of
subsidies.
35.           The Government and the SOF have accepted the Bank's advice to concentrate the
limited skills and resources available on the principal lossmakers and accumulators of arrears. As a
result, the Government decided to select from the group of enterprises placed under surveillance a
subset of 6 RAs and 13 CCs. These 19 enterprises accounted for 19 percent of total SOE losses in
1994 and for 29 percent of the aggregate payment arrears of the SOE sector as of December 31,
1994. The selection of this limited group of RAs and CCs is expected to enhance financial discipline
in the entire enterprise sector, not only because these enterprises account for a large percentage of
losses and arrears, but also because their creditors will have to share the burden of financial
conciliation (i.e., debt restructuring and/or forgiveness). This will convince a very large segment of
the enterprise sector that the Government is genuinely committed to put an end to budget-funded
bailouts, and will not resort again to arrears compensation exercises.
D. Fiscal Costs of Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization
36.           The implementation of the privatization and restructuring programs will reduce quasi-
fiscal expenditures which, over the medium term, should lead to lower and more predictable fiscal
needs. However, in the initial years of the reform, the reduction in quasi-fiscal expenditures will
require increased fiscal outlays either directly (e.g., severance pay to laid-off workers in enterprise
under surveillance, budgetary subsidies to public utilities to replace directed bank credit) or indirectly



-11-
(e.g., increased unemployment compensation, lower tax revenues due to higher provisions in the
banks).
37.          The reform program has been designed and phased taking into account the need to
finance the corresponding increase in the fiscal deficit. It is estimated that in 1995 the fiscal deficit
increased by about 0.5 percent of GDP due to the implementation of the reform program. On the
other hand, quasi-fiscal expenditures in the industrial enterprise sector are expected to be reduced by
5 percent between 1994 and 1996. The exact fiscal effect of the program is difficult to ascertain
because the Government is at the same time adjusting many other expenditures and revenues. The
following paragraphs try to quantify the effects of some of the main components of the program
affecting the fiscal deficit.
38.          The RAs and CCs under the surveillance program currently employ a work force of
around 750,000. Based on the experience of restructuring the previous group of 30 CCs in 1993, it
can be assumed that about 15 percent of their work force will have to be laid off over the next three
years. The unemployed are entitled to receive unemployment benefits at 50-60 percent of the average
wage during nine months followed by (means-tested) unemployment benefits for 18 months at 40
percent of the minimum wage. Moreover, Ordinance 13195 introduces the payment -out of a special
Financial Recovery Fund (FRF) funded by the budget-- of redundancy payments equal to six months
of net wages. Besides these costs, there would be a loss in tax revenues (wage tax, VAT) and in
contributions to social security and unemployment funds. The 3,900 enterprises in the MPP are
estimated to employ a work force of about 4 million. Once these enterprises are privatized, they may
also shed labor, but this is expected to occur only gradually. In this case, increases in payments of
unemployment benefits would be partially compensated by increases in profit taxes. Estimates based
on these data indicate that the increase in the fiscal deficit linked to privatization and downsizing of
SOEs would not exceed an annual average of 0.5 percent of GDP over the next three years.
39.          Another source of increased fiscal expenditures linked to the program is the
introduction of explicit energy subsidies for some enterprises that until now were financing their
energy bills through arrears or directed bank credits. The Government has set aside for this purpose
the equivalent of about 0.4 percent of GDP in the FRF.
40.          Finally, the main negative fiscal effect from the implementation of the reform
program in the financial sector comes from the expected reduction in tax revenues linked to increased
loan loss provisions by commercial banks. These provisions, which beginning in 1995 are tax
deductible, could lead to a reduction in tax revenues of about 0.45 percent of GDP.
41.          Against this direct fiscal cost, there would be gains more difficult to quantify. First,
there would be an increase in tax revenues from improved efficiency. For example, the increase in
profit tax revenues from each 10 percent increase in profitability in the 151 SOEs placed under
surveillance, as well as from those in the MPP, would amount to 0.2 percent of GDP. Moreover, tax
arrears from the enterprises under surveillance (2.4 percent of GDP in 1994) should fall as the FRPs
are implemented. In addition, as the cost cutting measures contained in the FRPs are implemented,
there should be a reduction in the level of budgetary subsidies to the enterprises under surveillance
(which will amount to 1.9 percent of GDP in 1995). This should also lead to substantial quasi-fiscal
savings as these enterprises account for almost half of non-performing bank loans and inter-enterprise
arrears.
E. Private Sector Development
42.          Since 1989, the number of small private businesses has increased dramatically. The
private sector contribution to GDP has risen steadily from 13 percent in 1989 to an estimated 35
percent by early 1995. Altogether, 569,000 private firms --about half of which small family-run



-12-
businesses-- have been registered over the last four years. Land restitution and the dismantling of
agricultural cooperatives increased the private sector's share in value added in agriculture from about
10 percent in 1989 to 80 percent in 1994. Also, 70 percent of value added in trade, hotels and
restaurants now comes from the private sector, as well as a significant contribution in services (40%),
construction (25%) and financial services (12%). However, the share of the private sector is only 5
percent in industry and 3 percent in transportation. Presently, about 30 percent of Romania's exports
and imports are conducted by private operators. The private sector is the main source of job
creation, accounting for about 85 percent of new jobs created in 1994. Private firms now employ 42
percent of the labor force, including 2.4 million private farmers.
43.          Although Romania has a liberal foreign investment regime, the cumulative total
investment inflow since January 1991 had only reached US$1.521 billion by October 1995. The vast
majority of joint ventures are small trading operations; only 163 of them represent an investment of
more than US$1 million.
44.          Like in most transition economies, the main constraints to private sector development
are the concerns of investors about the stability of the macro economic framework, the previously
slow pace of privatization and the limited availability of credit. Private entrepreneurs also ask for a
simplified procedure for registration of new companies, which is shortly to be established by a new
GD. The implementation of the program supported by the FESAL will significantly reduce these
problems.
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Overview of the Financial Sector
45.          Reform of Romania's banking system was initiated early in the process of
transformation to a market economy. Entry to the banking sector was liberalized and a two-tier
banking system was established in 1990. The commercial activities of NBR were hived off to the
Romanian Commercial Bank (RCB), allowing NBR to concentrate on its functions as the monetary
authority. Four state banks --namely, RCB, Banca Agricola (BA), the Romanian Bank for
Development (RBD), and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade (RBFT)-- which previously acted as
passive allocators of credit according to the dictates of central plans, were rechartered as universal
banks. During the last four years, the banking sector and the accompanying regulatory and
supervisory framework have developed rapidly. Following the conversion of NBR into a central
bank, prudential regulations and a bank supervisory function have been put in place. Recently, an
ordinance has been passed establishing audit and accounting standards, which can be expected to
upgrade these critical professions to the direct and indirect benefit of the banking system.
46.          By mid-1995 there were over 30 banks operating in Romania. Seven of these banks
are state owned, the Savings Bank (CEC), the Romanian EXIM bank, and the five state-owned
commercial banks (SOCBs): RCB, BA, RBD, RBFT and Banc Post (BP). In addition, there are 15
private or semi-private banks, five foreign-based Romanian joint-venture banks and four foreign
banks. Several new banks owned by domestic and foreign capital are presently being formed, which
will be commencing operations in 1995/96. Despite the growth of the new private banks, the state-
owned banks continue to dominate the banking system. The CEC, which used to hold a virtual
monopoly of household deposits, continues to account for 45 percent of household deposits with the
banking system, although its share of the system's aggregate liabilities had fallen to only 7.7 percent
by end-1994. The SOCBs accounted for 67 percent of aggregate assets and 82 percent of commercial
loans as of December 31, 1994. Market segmentation continues to be evident, with BA concentrating



-13-
on production loans for agriculture, RCB on working capital loans for industry and RBFT on trade
finance.
47.          Diagnostic studies, financial audits and portfolio reviews of the major banks have
been completed. Comprehensive institution-building programs are being implemented based on the
findings of these diagnostic studies. In this context, the World Bank, EU PHARE and EBRD have
supported efforts to strengthen strategic planning, credit assessment, asset/liability management,
information systems development and bank training through several initiatives. The programs are
geared to realistic strategic business plans and forecasts of future retained earnings, with a view to
eventual privatization of several state banks. A loan classification and provisioning system has been
promulgated by NBR, similar to the methodology used by the international auditors of the major
SOCBs in undertaking their audits, and is now in place in the banks. The banks have begun to take
responsibility for dealing with problem loans. Workout departments have been established in the
major banks. Legal action is now being used to collect past due debts. Information Technology is
being installed to allow the development of meaningful management information and financial
accounting. RBD is presently being prepared for privatization.
B. Problems and Challenges Facing the Banking System
48.          The commercial banks may be broadly classified into four categories:
(a)    The two largest state-owned banks, BA and RCB, are the weakest financially and
institutionally. BA has a large portfolio of loans to state farms and state-owned
"integrators" dealing in agricultural input supply, product storage and marketing.
RCB has a large portfolio of loans to state-owned industrial enterprises. These banks
have been able to continue funding their portfolio of doubtful loans by using their
access to unsecured NBR refinancing with little regard to the cost of such liabilities;
(b)    Two smaller state banks, RBD and BP, which have pursued a prudent policy of
finding their loan portfolios mostly from deposits, appear to be the best candidates for
successful privatization;
(c)    RBFT, which has been conservatively managed, but whose loan assets predominantly
comprise claims on NBR and MOF in respect of trade transactions undertaken at the
behest of the state, which the newly created Eximbank is too small to undertake; and
(d)    A diverse group of domestic private banks and foreign banks, whose share of the
market has grown to around 15 percent of loan assets, but which face difficulties
competing with the large SOCBs.
49.          The main problems still facing the Romanian banking system are poor quality loan
portfolios, an inadequate and volatile capital base, a narrow funding base and consequent over-
dependence on NBR refinancing, continuing dominance by the state banks, a high degree of
segmentation and a need to improve governance. The relatively weak supervisory capacity of NBR
slows progress in all these areas, as banks do not feel enough pressure to change.
50.          Loan Portfolio Ouality. During the socialist period, the serious portfolio problems of
the SOCBs forced the state to undertake periodic recapitalizations. As most loans had been granted in
accordance with the directives of the central plan, the subsequent "bail-outs" were treated as purely
administrative exercises. During the last four years, bad loans by SOCBs have been mainly the



-14-
consequence of government interference in credit allocations, the lack of credit analysis skills and
rapid changes in the profitability of enterprises due to the volatile macroeconomic environment and
large changes in relative prices. As of end-1994, the auditors of the five major state-owned banks
recommended cumulative loan loss reserves of about 9 percent of the banks' loan portfolios. These
provisions exclude loans that are explicitly or implicitly government-guaranteed. Furthermore, loan
asset quality has shown a deteriorating trend among some of the major banks.
51.           During 1994, the entire banking system experienced a perceptible slowdown in the
collection of interest receivables on loans. The five SOCBs reported significant levels of uncollected
interest earnings, overdue interest as of June 30, 1994 representing around 35 percent of interest
receivable on an accrual basis. Although the banks improved their collection rates in the second half
of the year, overdue levels remained high as of end-1994. The debt restructuring and interest
forgiveness arising from the conciliation agreement signed in September 19954', will force banks to
recognize some of the losses already implicit in their portfolios and will likely affect adversely the
results of the major banks in 1995.
52.           Capital Base. Owing to the poor quality of loan portfolios, the aggregate capital
account of the banking sector has always been weak. Until recently, the capital adequacy ratios of
some of the major banks fell well below the indicative requirements of a minimum ratio of capital to
risk-weighted assets set by the NBR (along the lines of the Basle guidelines). The problem has been
mostly concentrated in RCB and BA. However, there has been considerable progress in this area.
During 1994, the major banks earned enough income to be able to make large provisions against loan
losses.
53.          During the past several years, decapitalization of banks was occurring for several
reasons, in addition to the poor lending policies described above. First, because loan-loss provisions
were understated, profits were overstated and taxes were out of proportion to the banks' true
earnings. Second, the present legislation on the dividends of all state-owned commercial companies
requires them to declare a minimum dividend of 40 percent of their after-tax earnings. Hence, this
legislation forces the withdrawal of needed capital from the SOCBs. Given the poor quality of
earnings in the past and the systemic inadequacy of provisions, SOCBs were, in effect, distributing
their capital when dividends were paid out. Third, until recently specific loan loss provisions were
not tax deductible. This situation has recently been changed by GD 335/95 of May 16, 1995, which
allows for tax deductibility of specific loan loss provisions commencing in the 1995 tax year.
54.           The tax-deductibility of specific loan loss provisions will provide a strong incentive
for the banks to build up sufficient loan loss reserves. It is also expected that once the new Chart of
Accounts for banks is introduced, there will be an increasing convergence between the banks'
Romanian statutory accounts and the accounts prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards, particularly with respect to loan-loss provisions. Furthermore, NBR has recently issued a
Circular which requires the major state-owned banks to undertake full loan loss provisions and to
retain 50 percent of their net profit after tax until they have reached minimum levels of capital
adequacy. This will have the effect of restricting distribution of dividends by state-owned banks to
the minimum level of 40 percent established by the law during the period in which they are building
up their capital.
4/     Resulting from the implementation of FRPs by the enterprises under the surveillance regime.



-15-
55.          The weak capital situation of major SOCBs had previously been exacerbated by the
failure of the Government to settle promptly and fully its obligations under Law 7/92 and
Ordinance 1/94. However, beginning in September 1994, the Government began settling its overdue
obligations and it is now current in all its obligations to the banks. The credibility of GOR's
commitment to prompt and unequivocal payment of its obligations to the SOCBs has thus been
restored.
56.          Narrow Funding Base and Overdependence on NBR Refinancing. On an aggregate
basis, the banking sector is characterized by a narrow deposit base. Deposits accounted for less than
50 percent of the five SOCBs' funding liabilities as of end 1994. BA, RCB and RBFT are heavily
dependent on NBR refinancing. Notably BA funds around 70 percent of its loan portfolio from NBR
and interbank borrowing, and alone accounts for over 60 percent of all NBR refinancing of the
banking system. Access to NBR refinancing facilities have enabled BA, RCB and RBFT to forestall a
more rapid decline in their market shares.
57.          Progress is being made in this area. As of end 1994, the banking system's combined
loan/deposit ratio stood at 110 percent, compared to 120 percent as of year-end 1993. BA continued
to have the highest loan/deposit ratio of 300 percent (although down from the year-end 1993 high of
470 percent). The medium-term objective of the larger banks is to shrink their assets to better match
their resources.
58.          Commercial Orientation and the Government's Presence. The SOCBs still have to
develop a stronger commercial approach in their operations. The absence of such a focus is a legacy
of the past central planning economy and continued dominant government ownership and presence.
The performance of BA, RCB and RBFT has been materially affected by lending undertaken under
political pressures. Banks have endeavored to pursue greater commercial orientation, which would be
facilitated if they were privatized and once there is greater competition in the banking market.
59.          Bank Problem Loan Workout Departments (WODs). All SOCBs have established
workout departments to deal with problem loans. These units are still inexperienced and
understaffed. The units in the major banks are receiving technical assistance provided by foreign
workout specialists, funded by EU PHARE, who commenced their work in the first quarter of 1995.
C. Public Policy Issues
60.          Deposit Insurance. The growth of household deposits in the emerging new banks has
been relatively slow. This has delayed their development because these deposits represent the most
stable and least expensive funding source. To a large extent, this is due to the fact that household
deposits with CEC are covered by an explicit Government guarantee. Moreover, the general
perception is that deposits with SOCBs are implicitly guaranteed, whereas deposits with other banks
are clearly not guaranteed.
61.          In order to create a level playing field for deposit gathering by all commercial banks,
including the new private banks, a limited deposit insurance scheme covering deposits at all banks is
to be introduced under the supervision of NBR. This would end CEC's privileged status as deposits
with it would only be covered to the same extent as deposits with other banks. Such a scheme should
cover only a modest maximum amount per account. A legal and institutional framework needs to be
in place to ensure timely intervention for dealing with bank insolvencies.
62.          Payments System. An important challenge for the development of the banking sector
is continued institution-building --both by way of system infrastructure, as well as skills enhancement.
For instance, the interbank clearing system has been inadequate to allow prompt settlement of



-16-
accounts. Until recently the settlement and clearing system was still based on principles and
organization developed under central planning. Small private banks were unable to use the system
directly and were, in effect, obliged to buy inefficient and costly payment services from large state-
owned banks. The system had a high average float which was especially detrimental in a situation of
high inflation.
63.          Recent changes in the interbank payments system were initiated by the issuance of
NBR Regulation No.10/1994 regarding a paper-based multilateral compensation of interbank
payments, which became operational on April 3, 1995. Clearing houses were established in
Bucharest and in 41 counties (Judets). A clearing sitting is held daily, under the auspices of the Bank
Settlements Department of the NBR. The system operates on a net settlement basis and only covers
payments of less than 10 million Lei. In the medium-term, NBR intends to launch a nationwide
electronic-based system, which offers same-day clearing and handles large-value payments.
64.          Credit Information Bureau (CIB). An effective credit information bureau is needed to
strengthen the risk management of banks, the application of the recently introduced prudential
regulations, and the quality of financial information on banks, etc. To achieve this objective, NBR
and the Romanian Banking Institute have agreed, in principle, on the merits of establishing a CIB.
An action plan to establish a CIB will be prepared and implemented.
65.          Accounting and Auditing. There is need to: (a) fully implement the new accounting
laws; (b) introduce amendments that will enable the current Accounting Law 82/91, drawn up on the
basis of EU standards, to fully comply with international standards; (c) develop/implement charts of
accounts for enterprises and banks in accordance with international standards; (d) ensure uniform
application of accounting/auditing principles and presentation of financial statements based on
international standards; and (e) introduce measures that will further develop the accounting and
auditing profession.
66.          Regulatory and Supervisory Framework. Since 1993, significant policy and
regulatory improvements have occurred. The Supervision Department of NBR has established a team
of bank examiners to undertake off-site surveillance and on-site examination of banks. Prudential
Regulations issued are in line with international standards and cover the minimum initial capital of
banking companies, licensing of new banks, large exposures, foreign currency exposures, prohibited
business, insider lending/connected lending, loan classification and provisioning and capital adequacy.
Additional regulations will be drafted to cover the registration of auditors authorized to undertake
bank audits and the external auditing of banks by NBR-approved auditors.
67.          Despite the considerable progress made, the supervision framework needs further
strengthening. In day-to-day operations, there is a need for greater uniformity of application of
norms between the banks. The impediments to effective bank supervision include inadequate staffing,
both in terms of the number and experience of staff, and an unwillingness by supervisors to confront
banks, which may stem from a lack of supervisory experience. Recognizing the importance of
building its supervisory system and skills, NBR has mobilized technical assistance to train and assist
senior supervision personnel. The Supervision Department of NBR is presently being assisted by two
bank examiners from the Netherlands Bank funded by EU PHARE. Four bank inspection teams of
three to four examiners each have been formed. Several on-site inspections took place in 1994 and
further on-site examinations are scheduled for 1995 and 1996. Off-site surveillance is also being
carried out based on regular returns from banks.



-17-
D. Capital Markets Development
68.          The Securities and Exchange Law was approved in October 1994, a new National
Securities Commission (NSC) has been created and the Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE) was
officially opened in June 1995. The legal, institutional and regulatory framework for the development
of capital markets is being finalized by the Government, the NSC and the BSE.
69.          Apart from launching the institutions and regulatory framework to promote the capital
market, there is a need to provide for a mechanism that will facilitate an active secondary market for
shares in connection with the MPP. An adequate framework to handle the technical and legal issues
of share trading needs to be put in place. On the technical side, the flow of paper which will occur
during and after the MPP has to be accommodated. This relates to: (a) the distribution of the new
privatization vouchers; (b) the exchange of vouchers and COs for shares; (c) the initial cash
transactions of MPP shares; (d) the delivery of share receipts to shareholders; and (e) the creation and
maintenance of share registries. This is a formidable task. The Government, with the assistance of
USAID and EU PHARE, is now working on detailed procedures on how securities will be traded
once shares are issued under the MPP.
70.          Although mechanisms have been established by NBR for trading government debt
through open market auctions, secondary trading has not yet commenced because there is virtually no
primary market. Starting end-March 1994, the Government commenced issue of 91-day Treasury
Bills. The volume issued so far has reached Lei 3,500 billion, with an average level per issue of Lei
200 billion. The frequency of issues changed from quarterly at the beginning to a more frequent but
no regular pattern presently. Treasury Bills are mainly bought by the SOCBs, and their price is set at
a sitting with the NBR and MOF. The Government, intends to develop the Treasury Bills market into
a more open and competitive market by introducing securities of different maturities and offering tax
incentives to investors.
V. THE REFORM PROGRAM
A. FESAL Support to Enterprise Sector Development and Reform
71.       The reform program supported by the FESAL builds on measures undertaken within the
program supported by the SAL and focuses on implementation of structural reforms at the enterprise
level. Policy measures initiated under the SAL, such as development of competitive markets, price
and trade liberalization, commercialization of SOEs and early privatization laid down the basis for a
market system. FESAL's major thrust would be in privatization and on financial discipline of SOEs
that are not yet privatized or will remain in the State's hands. In compliance with the condition for
Board presentation. the Government has maintained a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
program as determined on the basis of indicators agreed upon with the Bank. and has achieved
progress in carrying out the program. It was agreed at negotiation that maintenance of such
macroeconomic framework. and progress achieved in carrying out the program would be conditions
for second, third and floating portion releases.
Privatization
72.       Privatization has been proceeding slowly for both political and technical reasons.
However, increasingly over the years 1994 and 1995 the Government has made privatization an
overriding priority. Starting in October 1995, the Romanian population is able to exchange their COs



-18-
and the new coupons for the shares of around 3,900 CCs, either directly or through the
intermediation of the POFs acting as investment funds. At the same time, the SOF started selling for
cash shares not exchanged for COs and coupons. In order to facilitate the cash sale of shares, the
SOF is offering deferred payment facilities to buyers. Lastly, the Government has agreed that
whenever shares would not find buyers, their price would be reassessed and lowered. In cases where
the discount is more than 30 percent of book value, sale contracts may include standardized clauses,
as required by the Law 55/95.
73.       The "fast-track" standard MEBO procedure will be maintained for small CCs and has
already been extended to larger ones through the adoption of Law 77/94 (MEBO Law). For medium-
sized and large CCs, the Government intends to continue the initial public offering program and
negotiated sales with strategic investors. Overall, a more active and flexible privatization strategy has
been adopted, allowing for additional "bottom-up", market-oriented, methods of privatization and
incentives that are conducive to accelerating the privatization process.
74.       The Government has complied with the following conditions for Board presentation:
(a)  the completion of 1.500 cumulative privatizations since the enactment of Law 58/1991:
(b) the issuance of an Ordinance, acceptable to the Bank. establishing deferred payment
facilities for the sale of shares still held by the SOF after exchange of COs and coupons
for shares under the MPP:
(c)  the formalization and publication of standard contracts. agreed with the Bank. for the cash
sale of shares discounted by more than 30%: and
(d)  the launching of the program of installment sales of 40 percent of the shares of the CCs in
the MPP.
75.       It was agreed at negotiation that the conditions to be met for the second and the third
portion releases would be. respectively:
(a)  Completion of at least 2.750 cumulative privatizations. since the enactment of Law
58/1991. including at least 400 medium and 50 large CCs: and
(b)  Completion of at least 3.600 cumulative privatizations. since the enactment of Law
58/1991. including at least 500 medium and 100 large CCs.
76.       Companies will be counted towards the privatization targets when they are fully
controlled by private owners, as indicated by at least 90 percent of their shares being in private
hands. However, a lower percentage of private ownership could be accepted by the Bank, on a case-
by-case basis, when the structure and concentration of the ownership and the governance of a
privatized firm clearly show that its management has been transferred to private hands. In order to
accelerate the process of creating effective ownership structures and corporate governance, the
Government will ensure that the shares of CCs in the MPP are registered and tradeable over-the-
counter as soon as possible. Share registries will have to be in place as soon as shares begin to be
traded for COs and coupons or sold. This is especially important because the shares will be in
dematerialized form. The Government has agreed on the measures that need to be taken to facilitate
the registration of shares and the development of an orderly over-the-counter market, but the full
development of secondary markets in post MPP shares is likely to be a slow process. The conditions



-19-
for Board presentation --i.e.. the effective activation of an interim share registry allowing for MPP
share registration and the endorsement by the Government of the design of a system. acceptable to the
Bank. for the registration and trading of shares-- have been met. It was agreed at negotiation that a
condition for second portion release would be the establishment and activation of a system for the
registration and trading in shares.
Private Sector Development
77.       Future growth and employment opportunities lie in the development of a healthy and
dynamic private sector. The program supported by the FESAL will improve conditions for private
sector development. The FESAL will require the implementation of a Strategy and Action Plan for
Private Sector Development, which has been discussed with the Government and which is mentioned
in the LDP. This plan will focus on specific actions, such as simplification and streamlining of
regulations and procedures for the establishment of new companies, access of private contractors to
public sector contracts, and technical support to small and medium enterprises development.
Furthermore, a specific condition has been set. In compliance with a condition for Board
presentation. the Government has endorsed a simplified procedure. acceptable to the Bank. which
would ensure that the registration of new enterprises can be completed in less than a month. It was
agreed at negotiation that the establishment of a simplified procedure. agreed with the Bank. for the
registration of new enterprises, would be a condition for second portion release.
Financial Discipline and Enterprise Restructuring: the Worst Cases under Surveillance
78.       The Government program includes measures to impose financial discipline in SOEs that
are not yet privatized or will remain with the State for some time to come. This aspect of the
Government's program is focused on a surveillance program for enterprises which account for a
significant percentage of losses and arrears in the enterprise sector. These enterprises have been
required to design FRPs, with a two-year time frame (1995-1996), which specify short-term measures
that must be taken to reduce their losses, improve their cash flow from operations and cut their
arrears, in cooperation with their economic partners. These FRPs must be acceptable to the Bank and
approved by the Government. Consultants financed by Bank-managed Trust Funds and by the EU
PHARE program have assisted some of these enterprises in designing these FRPs. To be acceptable
to the Bank, an FRP must include: (a) a set of realistic short-term measures to be implemented by
the management of the enterprise to reduce costs, enhance revenues and reduce arrears; and
(b) credibly projected positive cash flows before debt service. While under surveillance, enterprises
are forbidden to undertake new capital investments. Their access to new credit is limited to
Government-guaranteed credits explicitly provided for in the approved FRPs. Government guarantees
for this purpose must fit under a cap agreed with the Bank. Lastly, their debt service on debt
overdue more than 90 days is deferred, pending negotiation of conciliation agreements with their
creditors.
79.       The scheme provides positive and negative incentives for debt-ridden enterprises and their
creditors to reach a conciliation agreement. By reaching an agreement, enterprises obtain debt relief
and creditors benefit from the resumption of debt servicing on their frozen credits. Failure to reach
an agreement would lead to liquidation which would leave both debtors and creditors worse off.



-20-
80.       A core group of 13 CCs, among those placed under surveillance, will receive special
attention. They are mostly large lossmakers and/or they have accumulated important payment
arrears5'. While, the Government has approved the FRPs prepared by all 151 enterprises subject to
the surveillance regime, it has only submitted to the Bank the FRPs for the core group of 13 CCs-
which were found acceptable. Moreover, the Government and the Bank have agreed during
negotiations on a set of specific and aggregate performance benchmarks to be met by these 13 CCs.
By submitting acceptable FRPs to the Bank for the core group of 13 CCs and by agreeing with the
Bank on performance benchmarks to be met. the Government has complied with condition for Board
presentation. It was agreed at negotiation that a condition for second portion release would be the
submission by the Government to the Bank of a report demonstrating. in a manner acceptable to the
Bank. that the 13 CCs have made substantial progress in implementing their FRPs. including meeting
the aggregate and specific benchmarks agreed with the Bank. The Bank will not monitor directly the
implementation of the individual FRPs of the other CCs under surveillance, except in terms of
aggregate benchmarks regarding layoffs, liquidations, privatizations and ceilings on financing. The
Government and the Bank have agreed during negotiations that, ultimately, all but ten CCs6' placed
either in isolation (GD 301/93) or under surveillance (GD 212/95), would have to exit these
programs, by achieving one of the following: (a) generation of a positive cash flow after debt
service; (b) privatization; and (c) liquidation. Lastly, the Bank will monitor the observance of the
aggregate agreed ceilings regarding the Government's and SOF's financial support to these
enterprises.
81.       The Government has complied with two conditions for Board presentation:
(a) the establishment of the legal framework for the surveillance regime. by issuing
Ordinance 13/95 in January 1995: and
(b)  the completion of seven privatizations and liquidations out of the group of CCs placed in
isolation under GD 301/93.
82.       It was aereed at negotiation that the conditions of second portion release would be:
(a)  the exit of at least 50 CCs from the surveillance program established by GD 212/95, out
of which at least 20 CCs. which have not been placed in isolation under GD 301/93. have
been privatized or liguidated. while the remainder of the other 50 CCs have re-
established. to the satisfaction of the Government and the Bank, a positive cash flow: and
(b)  the completion of additional five privatizations or liquidations out of the group of CCs
placed in isolation under GD 301/93.
83.       It was agreed at negotiation that the conditions of the third portion release would be:
(a)  the exit of the CCs placed under surveillance from the surveillance program (GD 212/95)
except for those referred to below, on account of one of the following:
5/   Five of the 13 CCs are large steel companies (Sidex, Siderurgica, Siderca, Cost, Republica); two are
refineries (Petrobrazi, Petrotel); two are from the troubled non-ferrous metal sector (Alum, Ampellutn); one
is a fertilizer plant (Turnu); and three are from the metallurgy sector (Tractorul, Turbomecanica, IMGB)
61   The Government and the Bank will agree on a list of up to ten enterprises which would remain in the
surveillance program for one year after the third portion release.



-21-
-    privatization:
-    re-establishment, to the satisfaction of the Government and of the Bank. of a
positive net cash flow: and
-    liquidation.
(b)  the completion of additional ten privatizations or liquidations out of the group of CCs
placed in isolation under GD 301/93.
84.       Nine RAs7' have also been included in the surveillance program. They are required to
undergo the same process as the CCs. However, because of their public/strategic nature, the RAs
would not face the threat of liquidation and are not subject to privatization. Provision of financial
support by the Government, however, are limited to explicitly agreed commitments under approved
FRPs, and are subject to an overall cap. The management of the RAs will also focus on cost-cutting
measures, improved cash flow generation and reduction of arrears. Should these measures prove
insufficient to restore the RAs to financial equilibrium, the FRP will quantify the tariff increases
and/or the amount of budgetary financing required to balance revenues and expenditures. While the
management of RAs will be fully responsible for the implementation of the restructuring measures
that fall within its sphere of responsibility, the Government will be required to take decisions on the
pricing of output or services of utilities, public transport and mines8'; on the introduction of a
mechanism to curb the building up of arrears; on closures of non-core, uneconomic activities of the
RAs; and on budgetary subsidies. New capital investment will be forbidden with the exception of
investments already approved under the corresponding FRP9'.
85.       In agreement with the Government, a core group of six of these RAs' will receive
special attention. They are some of the largest enterprises in the country (the railways, the electricity
and gas utilities, and three mining enterprises employing together more than 100,000 workers). They
are either large lossmakers and/or they have accumulated important payment arrears. For each of
these RAs, the Government and the Bank have agreed during negotiations on a set of performance
benchmarks to be met. In compliance with a condition for Board presentation. the Government has
submitted to the Bank acceptable FRPs for the core group of six RAs and has agreed with the Bank
on performance benchmarks to be met. It was agreed at negotiation that a condition for the second
portion release would be the submission by the Government to the Bank of a report demonstrating. in
a manner acceptable to the Bank. that the six RAs have made substantial progress in implementing
their FRPs. including meeting the aygregate and specific benchmarks agreed with the Bank. A
condition for the third portion release would be that the core group of six RAs must have made
substantial progress toward phasing out uneconomic activities and improving their cash flows.
7/   The nine selected RAs are RENEL (power), ROMGAZ (gas), SNCFR (railways), RA a Lignitului-Oltenia
(lignite), RA a Carbunului-Ploiesti (lignite), RA a Cuprului-Deva (copper mining), Metrorex (Bucharest
Metro), RADET (Bucharest district heating) and PETROM (petroleum).
81   In this respect, the Government has already agreed, under the SAL, that prices that are still administered will
be based on world prices. Under the FESAL, the Government will be required to continue observing this
pricing policy.
9'   Four of the eight RAs have investment projects signed or in preparation with the Bank (RENEL, ROMGAZ,
PETROM and SNCFR). A new investment project concerning RADET is in the identification stage.
IO/   RENEL, ROMGAZ, SNCFR, RAC-Deva, RAL-Oltenia and RAC-Ploiesti.



-22-
86.       The above restructuring program for CCs and RAs is likely to have an adverse social
impact as a result of the downsizing and labor shedding of these enterprises. This issue is partially
addressed by Ordinance 13/95 which introduces redundancy payments and other benefits to employees
of enterprises placed in the surveillance program, which may be laid-off as a result of the
implementation of restructuring measures. Also, the Employment and Social Protection Project
financed by the Bank will complement the FESAL by addressing the issues of unemployment benefits,
social insurance and assistance programs and employee retraining.
87.       Shrinking of the enterprises' payroll is a major component of their planned downsizing.
As labor shedding is a particularly painful exercise, politically as well as socially, special support and
specific incentives have been provided. Part of the limited budgetary resources to be allocated to
support the reform program has been set aside to compensate enterprises for severance pay (six
months salary). An FRF has been created by the MOF with a total budget of Lei 350 billion, of
which Lei 100 billion have been set aside for severance pay. The balance is available to support
payment of energy bills of chronic defaulters that cannot be cut off from service for social reasons.
The severance payment program is mostly based on voluntary separation. It has proven more
successful than expected. It was agreed at negotiation that. to encourage the aggressive acceleration
of labor retrenchment. the floating portion of US$40 million would be released against a single
criterion--in addition. that a satisfactory macro framework be in place--the reduction of employment
in enterprises placed under surveillance under GD 212/95. as agreed with the Bank.
Enforcement of Hard Budget Constraints: Capping Fiscal Contributions
88.       The Government intends to harden the budget constraint faced by all the SOE sector,
including enterprises not under isolation. To achieve this objective the Government has set caps for
1995 on the availability of government and SOF financial resources for enterprise restructuring
through different channels. The Government will inform the Bank of the caps proposed for 1996 and
1997. Also, arrears to the energy complex are an important source of financing for enterprises in
financial distress. In order to close this potentially major loophole in the hard budget constraints
which is being imposed on RAs and CCs, the Government has introduced a mechanism to forestall
future build up of arrears in the energy sector. RENEL has carried out negotiations with its largest
delinquent customers, resulting in partial forgiveness and rescheduling of their debt. These customers
have been advised that they will face automatic cut off from supply or progressive reductions in
electricity deliveries if they fail to pay their new bill on time. MOF has agreed to pay directly to
RENEL the overdue electricity bills of entities which are subsidized by the budget, out of their
earmarked budgetary subsidies. Lastly, financial penalties will be applied to the managers of both
RENEL and the delinquent customers in case of renewed delays in payment of electricity bills.
89.       The Government has complied with the following conditions for Board presentation:
(a)    the adoption of a mechanism. acceptable to the Bank. to forestall future buildup of arrears
in the energy sector. including an agreement on benchmarks to be met: and
(b)    an agreement on an overall cap on Government and SOF financial support in 1995 to
SOEs under the surveillance program established by Ordinance 13/95 for enterprises
selected under GD 212/95. including specific caps on: (i) the FRF (Lei 350 billion: 0.5
percent of estimated 1995 GDP): (ii) budgetary subsidies (Lei 1.250 billion: 1.9 percent
of estimated 1995 GDP): (iii) Government-guaranteed new bank lending (Lei 280 billion:
0.4 percent of estimated 1995 GDP): and (iv) SOF expenditures (Lei 493 billion: 0.7
percent of estimated 1995 GDP).



-23-
90.      It was agreed at negotiation that the conditions for the second and third portion releases
would be:
(a)    substantial progress in implementation of the mechanism to forestall future build up of
arrears in the energy sector. as measured against benchmarks agreed upon with the Bank:
and
(b)    observance of the agreed caps on Government and SOF financial support to SOEs.
B. FESAL Support to Financial Sector Policy and Bank Restructuring
91.       The reform program of the financial sector supported by the FESAL builds on the
liberalization and financial development supported by the SAL, and the regulatory reforms supported
by the Industrial Development Project, and it complements the reform program in the enterprise
sector. Its main objectives are to: gradually raise the soundness of the Romanian banking system;
enhance competition and the role of private banks; and accelerate the restructuring, downsizing and
privatization of the state-owned banks.
Bank Restructuring and Privatization
92.       The main objectives of the program are to reduce the state presence in the banking
system, and to ensure that the comprehensive institutional development programs currently underway
will continue to be implemented effectively. Therefore, the FESAL would seek commitments from
the Government relating to, among others: (a) limitation of recapitalization by Government to cases of
NBR intervention; (b) timebound plans for clearing all unpaid government guarantees of bank credits;
(c) responsibility of the banks' board/management to meet capital adequacy requirements and an
appropriate linkage of this principle to management's continuing mandate, performance standards and
compensation; and (d) rationalization and downsizing of operations to better manage bankwide risks.
93.       The introduction of out-of-court workouts and application of bankruptcy proceedings will
be important instruments to enforce loan recovery. Moreover, the conciliation agreements, organized
under Ordinance 13/95, will force banks to bear a portion of the cost of the bad loans because they
will not be able to recover them fully. This exercise should send a signal that new lending should be
based on borrowers' creditworthiness. Limitation of the Govermnent's role in providing financial
support to clear the bad loans of banks is one of the principles in the Government program as
explained in the attached LDP.
94.       The Government acknowledges that maintaining capital adequacy, in accordance with the
NBR timetable, should be the responsibility of the banks themselves either by raising their capital
(from retained earnings and from new private investors) and/or by reducing assets. [In order to
achieve these objectives, specific loan-loss provisions will be deductible from operating profit before
tax, and payments of dividends to shareholders from after-tax profits will be restricted until a cushion
of adequate provisions has been built up and minimum levels of capital adequacy have been achieved.
95.       A condition for Board presentation was that specific loan-loss provisions by banks be
rendered tax deductible according to an agreed phased-in schedule during 1995 and 1996. as follows:
(a) during 1995--for loans in the loss (100% provision) and doubtful (50% provision) categories: and
(b) during 1996 and subsequent years -- for the following categories of impaired credits: loss (100%
provision), doubtful (50% provision) and sub-standard (20% provision). This condition has been
satisfied by GD 335/95 dated May 16, 1995.



-24-
96.       MOF and NBR have made a commitment to ensure that dividends payable by banks to
their shareholders are restricted until the said banks have completed full loan-loss provisioning and
have achieved minimum capital adequacy requirements. In order to achieve this objective, the
following conditions were established:
(a)    for Board presentation:
NBR to issue a circular requiring banks to undertake full loan-loss provisioning and
reguiring them to retain 50 percent of net profit after tax as own funds. until they have
reached the minimum level of capital adequacy.
(b)    for the second and third portion releases:
Report from NBR on compliance of the banks with the circular and prudential regulations
on loan-loss provisioning. cagital adequacy and distribution of net profits. and on
measures taken by NBR against non complying banks.
The spirit of the Board presentation condition was met by NBR Circular No. 35 dated September 14,
1995. Moreover, the NBR has sent the Bank a letter clarifying:
(a)  that although the required retention of state owned banks was stated in the Circular to be
'within" 50 percent, in practice, state-owned banks would be obliged to retain the full 50
percent; and
(b)  that while the shareholders of private banks were given leeway to retain profits or
distribute dividends, they would be, de facto, subject to the same requirements placed on
state-owned banks.
Once the banks have constituted full provisions for loan-losses and have built up their capital ratios at
least to minimum acceptable levels (8 % of risk-weighted assets), restrictions on their dividend
distribution will be lifted. However, in any subsequent years in which there is a shortfall in
provisioning and/or capital adequacy, the banks will be required to reduce their dividends to the
extent necessary to restore loan-loss provisioning and capital ratios to adequate levels.
97.       As a complement to the banks' ongoing efforts to improve the quality of their credit
assessment and approval skills, and in support of the enterprise reform efforts, each of the major
banks has created WODs to achieve recovery of bad and doubtful loans previously granted. Each
bank's WOD is independent from the rest of the bank's operations, with the head of the unit reporting
directly to the President of the bank. In addition, incentives for recovery are being created, such as
salary structures based on a percentage of recovery of the bad loans. The banks could restructure
credits, grant selective and partial debt forgiveness and/or execute debt/equity swaps to enterprises
which present credible restructuring plans, or alternatively sell the debt outright at a discount. The
establishment of WODs in each of the major banks was a condition of Board presentation. It has
been satisfied.
98.       The Government and SOF agreed in January 1994 to commence the bank privatization
process with a due diligence exercise involving the RBD. The Government, the regulatory
authorities, RBD's shareholders, and bank management remain committed to privatization. Various
privatization scenarios are being developed in accordance with a preliminary plan prepared by RBD.
EBRD has confirmed its interest in a potential equity investment in RBD. Technical assistance, in



-25-
support of bank privatization/restructuring under the FESAL is being provided by USAID/EU
PHARE. A draft Bank Privatization Law has been submitted by the Government to Parliament in
September 1995. RBD's privatization plan, however, is based on the dilution of SOF's ownership by
issuing new shares and selling them to private investors. As a result, the plan can be implemented
independently of the passage of the new law, which will regulate the divestiture of state holdings in
the share capital of banks.
99.      In compliance with a condition for Board presentation. the Government has finalized a
privatization action plan for RBD. agreed with the Bank and approved by RBD's shareholders. NBR
and the Government. Such privatization plan includes an offer for sale. listing on the Bucharest Stock
Exchange (BSE) and sale of at least ten percent of its shares by public offering, over and above those
held by the POFs and RBD's employees. It was agreed at negotiation that implementation of the
RBD privatization plan. as it may be adjusted in agreement with the Bank. in order to abide by the
new Bank Privatization Law, if and when enacted. would be a condition for the second portion
release.
100.     The selection of a second state-owned bank to be privatized is still being considered by
the Government, based on its banking sector strategy. It was agreed at negotiation that the adoption
of a privatization action plan for the second bank to be privatized. agreed with the Bank and approved
by its General Assembly of Shareholders. the NBR and the Government. would be a condition for
second portion release. Such privatization plan is to include an offer for sale. listing on the BSE and
sale of at least ten percent of its shares by public offering. over and above those held by the POFs
and its employees. Implementation of the privatization plan of the second bank. as it may be
adiusted in agreement with the Bank. in order to abide by the new Bank Privatization Law. if and
when enacted. would be a condition for the third portion release.
101.     The largest SOCBs have continued to expand their lending by borrowing heavily from
NBR without collateral. In order to restrict the future growth of these banks, it has been agreed with
the Government that there should be no recapitalization by the state, except under exceptional
circumstances, and that access by banks to NBR refinancing should be restricted by requiring
collateral for all NBR borrowing to be phased in during 1995. The corresponding conditions are:
102.     For Board Presentation:
(a) an ongoing commitment from the Government that there will be no recapitalization of
banks by the state budget. by NBR. or from extra budgetary funds except immediately
prior to privatization or as needed upon a bank being intervened by NBR. This condition
has been met by a letter to the Bank dated September 25, 1995, signed by the Minister of
Finance and the Governor of NBR.
(b) NBR to issue a circular for phasing in the collateralization of its refinancing credits to
banks, as agreed with the Bank. This condition has been met by NBR Regulation 3/95
issued in August 1995.
103.     It was agreed at negotiation that. for the second portion release. NBR would submit to the
Bank a report demonstrating progress satisfactory to the Bank in implementing Regulation 3/95
issued by NBR in respect of collateralization of NBR's refinancing credits to banks. For the third
portion release. NBR would submit a similar report demonstrating full implementation of Regulation
3/95.



-26-
104.           Effective implementation of the prudential regulations recently issued by NBR will
require significant strengthening of its supervisory capacity, as well as NBR's powers to enforce the
banks' compliance with the new prudential regulations, implementation of an off-site surveillance
system, issuance of a new regulation covering the external auditing of banks by NBR-approved
auditors, and redefinition of the role, structure and size of NBR's regional branches. In compliance
with a condition for Board presentation. NBR has agreed to carry out annual on-site inspections of all
banks. Such inspections are to include, where appropriate, a critical assessment of the banks' latest
semi-annual portfolio reviews and the associated loan-loss provisioning recommended. It was agreed
at negotiation that. for the second portion release. three relevant conditions would have to be met:
(a) the stafflng of the Supervision Department of NBR shall be increased to its full complement of
around 70 staff: (b) NBR to submit to the Bank a report demonstrating that on-site inspections of
banks are being carried out in accordance with the inspection program as agreed with the Bank: and
(c) NBR to issue a regulation requiring mandatory independent external audits of banks. A condition
for the third portion release would be the submission by NBR to the Bank of a report demonstrating
compliance of banks with the mandatory external audit requirements.
105.      Deposit Insurance. To enhance all commercial banks' access to household deposits as a
stable and low-cost source of funding, the Government will develop a scheme to offer an explicit but
limited deposit insurance for household deposits with all banks, subject to prudent limits per
individual and/or account. This will create a level playing field for all banks. This will require a
strengthening in banking supervision to make explicit deposit insurance safe and secure. It was
agreed at negotiation that the adoption by the Government and NBR of a detailed plan for the
establishment of a deposit insurance scheme. agreed with the Bank. would be a condition for the
second portion release. The implementation of the deposit insurance scheme. would be a condition
for the third portion release.
106.      Accounting and Auditing. MOF has implemented a new accounting plan for enterprises,
and modern accounting and auditing standards have been introduced based on EU directives. As of
January 1, 1994, all enterprises applied this new accounting system. There has been some delay in
designing a new chart of accounts for banks, despite the fact that many banks have been audited by
international accounting firms. However, the Supervision Department of NBR has recently
accelerated the process. It plans to introduce a uniform chart of account on January 1, 1997. It was
agreed at negotiation that the issuance of a regulation by NBR introducing a uniform chart of accounts
for banks, in accordance with internationally accepted accounting standards. would be a condition for
the second portion release.
107.      Plans to develop capital markets in Romania are now well advanced. A condition for
Board presentation was the opening of the BSE. This condition has been met with the official
opening of the BSE in June 1995.
108.      Although the Government has assumed responsibility for certain past bad loans on the
books of the banks, in the past it was tardy in meeting its obligations thereunder. However, the
Government is now current in all its obligations to the banks. It was agreed at negotiation that as a
condition for the second and third portion releases. the Government would issue reports demonstrating
that it is current in all its payment obligations to the banks. including principal and interest due under
Law 7/92 and Ordinance 1/94.
VI. THE PROPOSE1D BANK LOAN
A. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
109.      The Government has requested Bank support for the program of structural reforms set out
in this Report. This program builds on the macroeconomic and structural adjustment supported by



-27-
the SAL. This project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy as discussed by the Board of
Directors during the presentation of the Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project (RO-PA-8777) on
April 5, 1994. The strategy specified that a family of projects in support of privatization and private
sector development is at the center of the Bank's lending program in Romania, and that the FESAL is
the main component of this family of projects.
110.      Success in implementing the program supported by the FESAL would imply a massive
transfer of SOEs to the private sector and a fundamental restructuring of enterprises, coupled with
progress in developing an effective banking system. In this task the FESAL will be complemented by
other Bank-financed projects, notably the Industrial Development Project which finances private
industry and the Employment and Social Protection Project which will assist workers that may be
temporarily displaced as a consequence of the downsizing of the SOE sector. The FESAL has also
assisted in setting up the policy framework for several ongoing or planned investment projects in the
Oil and Gas, Power and Transportation sectors. Status of Bank Group operations in Romania is
attached as Schedule D to this report.
B. World Bank Group and IMF Support
111.     The center of the IBRD lending program to Romania has been the US$400 million SAL
approved on June 2, 1992, which supported the establishment of preconditions for a rapid transition
to a market economy: systemic and structural reform measures, price and exchange rate liberalization,
macroeconomic stabilization, enterprise reform and social protection. The second portion of US$150
million was released in April 1994. The entire loan had been disbursed in FY95. The SAL was co-
financed by the Japanese Export Import Bank for the Yen equivalent of US$100 million, which is also
fully disbursed.
112.     Romania joined the IFC in 1990. IFC's first investment (telecommunication
manufacturing) was approved in April 1992. IFC expects to support investments for the expansion
and modernization of existing enterprises through joint ventures designed to bring in foreign capital
and know-how and wholly Romanian-owned privatized ventures, provided there is a strong core
investor and sound corporate governance. Several missions to Romania have been undertaken in an
attempt to assist in the privatization process and develop a project pipeline. The strongest IFC
pipeline is in the capital markets area. IFC has invested in Romania's first joint venture leasing
company, providing a US$15 million loan. IFC has also received Board approval for an investment
in a joint venture commercial bank.
113.     Romania signed the MIGA convention on August 6, 1991 and ratified it on June 22,
1992; it became a full member on September 10, 1992. By the end of 1994, MIGA had 12 active
registrations for projects in Romania, representing contemplated investments totalling about US$600
million in the agribusiness, banking, manufacturing, and telecommunications industries. MIGA has
not yet issued any guarantees for investments in Romania.
114.     In May 1992, the IMF approved the second SBA for Romania. This SBA expired in
March 1993, when the final purchase was not made due to failure to meet performance criteria for
end-December 1992. The third SBA was approved by the IMF on May 11, 1994. It is
complemented by an STF which supports structural changes in several policy areas, including the
exchange rate regime, and financial discipline. Discussions regarding the completion of the program
review with the IMF are continuing. The IMF Board discussion is scheduled to take place in early
December 1995. The status of IMF operations in Romania is attached as Annex 3 to this report.



-28-
C. Conditions of Board Presentation and for Release of the Second. Third and Floating Portions
115.     The proposed conditions for Board presentation, and second, third and floating portion
releases have been detailed in Section V and reproduced in the policy program matrix, attached as
Annex 2 to this report. This matrix has been used as a basis for policy discussions with the
Government. The floating portion may be released at any time after the loan becomes effective, when
the aggregate reduction of employment in enterprises placed under surveillance reach the level agreed
with the Bank, and as long as satisfactory progress in implementing the reform program set out in the
LDP is achieved. However, to ensure that the main objective of the floating portion is fulfilled-i.e.,
to secure an early reduction of excess labor--the third portion will not be released before the floating
portion.
D. Loan Features and Components
116.      Amount and Tranching. The proposed Loan, comprising single currency loan tranches
in US Dollars, Deutsche Marks and French Francs in the amount of US$280 million equivalent,
would be made to the Government for 20 years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR- (PIBOR-) based single currency loan in these currencies. The
LIBOR- (PIBOR-) based single currencv loan terms have been selected by the Government of
Romania, based on a review of the structure of the country's foreign trade and its existing foreign
debt. It also selected the single currency loan basket to improve its external liability management and
reduce its risks. The LIBOR- (PIBOR-) interest rate basis has been selected primarily to preserve the
standard country repayment terms of 20 years for LIBOR- (PIBOR-) based single currency loans,
compared to the shorter final maturity of fixed rate single currency loans. Given the need to support
a strong program of policy reforms, the proposed Loan would be disbursed in four portions: a first
portion of US$60 million to become available on credit effectiveness, a second of US$80 million six
to nine months later, and a third of US$100 million about six months later. The floating portion of
US$40 million would be disbursed as soon as a single specific benchmark is met. Policy measures
supported by the Loan are expected to be implemented over the next 12 to 24 months. The Japanese
Export Import Bank has indicated its willingness in principle to cofinance FESAL in the Yen
equivalent of US$50 million.
117.     The utilization of the Loan would be against general imports, except for a negative list of
ineligible products such as military and paramilitary items, luxury goods, nuclear reactors and parts,
uranium, tobacco and tobacco products, and environmentally hazardous products.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
118.     Procurement. The proposed Loan of US$280 million will finance 100 percent of the
CIF costs of eligible imports needed in the Financial and Enterprise Sector. These imports will be
specified through a negative list of categories.
119.     Imports made by the Government, public authorities, and private importers for more than
US$3 million will be procured under simplified ICB, using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
for Procurement of Goods, in accordance with the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines (January
1995). This threshold is consistent with the expected size of contracts and the experience of the
country with Bank procedures. Contracts in excess of US$10.0 million will be subject to prior
review by the Bank.
120.     Subject to prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded commodities may be procured
through organized international commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank. Since the Country Procurement Assessment Report for Romania is still in the
preparatory stage, it is not known at present if the country's procurement regulations for public



-29-
enterprises and commercial procurement practices are adequate and acceptable to the Bank. Thus,
contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$3 million may be awarded
through international shopping, based on an evaluation and comparison of at least three quotations
obtained from suppliers from at least two eligible countries.
121.     A procurement unit will be created at NBR to coordinate procurement activities for the
operation. The unit's organization, key staff, and procedures should be acceptable to the Bank. The
unit will be headed by a procurement specialist with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank. The central bank will provide quarterly progress reports of procurement activities to the
Bank.
122.     A General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development Business. The
notice will list the main categories of imports to be financed under the loan, recommend that Bank-
eligible exporters contact potential local importers, and invite interested suppliers to establish contact
with NBR.
123.     Disbursement. Contracts valued at less than US$250,000 will not be eligible for Bank
financing. Retroactive financing, not exceeding the equivalent of US$55 million of the Loan for
expenditures paid during the four-month period preceding the Loan signature, would be acceptable to
the Bank. However, imports shipped prior to the four-month period preceding the Loan signature
would not be eligible for Bank financing.
124.     Disbursements for contracts below US$10 million will be made against Statements of
Expenditure. The relevant documentation will be kept locally for supervision by Bank staff in the
field and for auditors whose terms of reference for procurement audits should be acceptable to the
Bank. Under the proposed operation, the accounting and auditing procedures of NBR will be
upgraded, if required, to be acceptable to the Bank.
125.     Acoiunts. NBR will keep the accounts including: (a) a record of drawings on the Loan,
with copies of all disbursement requests and underlying documentation; and (b) a record of
transactions on the Special Accounts and copies of NBR statements of these accounts. These records
will be updated monthly, and quarterly statements of transactions and balances, with the necessary
recommendations for disbursements and information on claims in process, will be forwarded to the
Bank.
126.      Special Accounts. In order to facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will
establish three Special Accounts in USD, DEM and FRF, respectively, in NBR to cover eligible
expenditures. The authorized allocations will be US$17 million for the USD Special Account, DEM
13.5 million for the DEM Special Account and FRF 10 million for the FRF Special Account. The
Special Accounts will be replenished monthly, or whenever one-third of the authorized amount has
been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Monthly bank statements of the Special Accounts which
have been reconciled by the Borrower will accompany replenishment requests.
F. Monitoring Arrangements
127.     Audit. All records and accounts of operations under this Loan, including the Special
Accounts and Statements of Expenditure will be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank, in accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines. The annual audit reports will be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
128.     Monitoring. The Government is aware that achieving the ambitious objectives of the
FESAL program will require a major implementation effort (including technical assistance support)
and close coordination of actions and policies. Therefore, the Government has set up an Inter-



-30-
ministerial Task Force to finalize the preparation of the FESAL and serve as the counterpart to the
appraisal mission. This task force intends to remain in place after the finalization of the project
preparation and to monitor closely its implementation.
G. Environmental Assessment Requirements
129.     In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environment Assessment (OD
4.01, Annex E), the FESAL has been placed in category U (unclassified) and does not require an
environmental assessment.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
130.      Benefits. Implementation of structural reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors
under this operation will enhance Romania's prospects for growth and will reinforce the sustainability
of its macroeconomic stabilization. Privatization will increase efficiency in the economy as
enterprises will be better suited to respond to changes in market conditions and consumer demands.
Improved financial discipline and stronger governance will reduce losses and arrears in the SOE
sector freeing resources for private sector development. Financial sector reforms would provide the
basis for building up a sound and efficient financial intermediation system and the development of a
new capital market. The program will also lead to substantially strengthened regulatory and
supervisory capabilities of NBR. Economic stability and growth would help Romania achieve
creditworthiness and gain easier and cheaper access to external finance.
131.      Risks. The main risks associated with the proposed Loan stem from the complexity and
political difficulty of implementing the ambitious Government program. Slippages in the
macrostabilization would further complicate the implementation of the program, and would reduce its
expected benefits. The local and national elections scheduled for 1996 may increase pressure for the
Government to relax its strict policies with respect to financial discipline and budgetary stringency.
132.      The complexity of the MPP creates the risk that privatization may be delayed because of
implementation problems. However, this risk has been greatly reduced by the large number of
privatizations which have already taken place and by the adoption of several market-based
mechanisms for privatization, which will be in effect simultaneously with the MPP.
133.      Overall, the risks appear manageable and the Government of Romania has demonstrated a
strong commitment to reform by implementing many of the policy measures proposed under the
FESAL before the approval of the Loan.
VIII. RECOMMENDATION
134.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 6, 1995



-31-                            Al1N:EX 1
Page 1 of 13
IKOHANIA
GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
NATIONAL BANK                                           STATE
OF ROMANIA                                    OWNERSHIP FUND
Bucharest
November3c, 1995
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Ref. Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
1.  For over five years the Romanian authorities have been implementing reforms
aimed at transforming Romania into a dynamic market economy. As in other
former planned economies, the transition process has proven to be difficult. But in
spite of the difficulties, and as we have shown over the past few years, we are
committed to continue and deepen the reforms in all areas. In particular, we have
given priority to policy reform in three areas: macroeconomic stabilization;
privatization and private sector development; and social protection. The World
Bank has provided important support to our program of stabilization and structural
reform through the Structural Adjustment Loan and other instruments.



-32-                            ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 13
Macroeconomic Policy
2. Our main priority since mid 1993 has been to stabilize the economy, which we
have significantly achieved. In many aspects we overperformed relative to the
programs that we designed with the support of the IMF. In 1993 and 1994, the
consolidated general government accounts were in near balance following a
substantial reduction in the deficit which exceeded 6% of GDP in 1992. The fiscal
deficit in the first half of 1995 is in line with the 2% program target.
This was achieved largely by the virtual elimination of consumer subsidies in
conjunction with the removal of price controls, and the successful introduction of
Value Added Tax. These measures were complemented by a tight monetary policy
which has consistently maintained interest rates at levels which are positive in real
terms. The foreign exchange market has been further deepened and liberalized in
several stages through the establishment of an inter-bank. foreign exchange market.
3. Inflation has abated from 300% in 1993 to about 62% in 1994, and about 25%
in 1995. Output began rebounding in 1993, grew by 3.5% in 1994, and is estimated
to be growing even faster (by over 5%) in 1995. The trade balance and international
reserve position have improved, mainly through a notable export boom. The deficit
in the current account of the balance of payments fell from 7.8% of GDP in 1992, to
4.7% in 1993, and to 1.8% in 1994. In 1995, in spite of continued growth in
exports, it is likely to show a larger deficit linked to the growth of imports resulting
from the very fast growth of the economy. Confidence in the leu has been partly
restored as evidenced in the increase in the volume of leu deposits and in the
stability of the exchange rate. Flows of direct foreign investment have also
increased markedly; the total inflow in 1994 has been equal to the cumulative
inflows of the four previous years, and in 1995 inflows may be even larger.
4.  In order to maintain this progress and set the basis for sustained growth, we
intend to continue policies aimed at reducing inflation and achieving an adequate
buildup of foreign exchange reserves. The consolidated government budget deficit
is programmed not to exceed 2.9% of GDP in 1995 and 2.2% of GDP in 1996.
These deficit targets take into account the expected fiscal costs arising from the
implementation of the reforms described in this letter. We intend to continue
controlling government expenditure with improvements in the structure of
expenditures, including enhanced targeting of social programs and reallocation of
expenditures from wages and producer subsidies to infrastructure investments to
support the emerging, private sector. Domestic financing of the fiscal deficit will be
limited so as to protect private sector access to credit and achieve the targeted
inflation reduction. Measures will be taken to ensure a flexible interest rate
2



-33-                              ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 13
structure which provides incentives for financial savings and efficiency in credit
allocation.
5.   We also intend to build on progress in structural reforms achieved over the
past four years through increased reliance on the price mechanism and on market-
determined exchange and interest rates to allocate economic resources. In
particular, we intend to maintain the openness of the trade and exchange systems,
foster market competition, further reduce availability and access to preferential
credits, and ensure the transparency of remaining subsidy schemes (in particular, to
the agricultural sector and regies autonomes) which are to be gradually phased out.
We regard the price liberalization to be a major achievement during the last four
years. We shall continue to uphold our SAL agreements in this regard, which allow
for no intervention in price setting except in agreed instances such as natural
monopolies. We shall also sustain the SAL agreements on energy pricing.
6.   Building on our impressive record in stabilizing the economy, we are now
ready for a strongly approach of the actual reform stage, respectively, the
privatization, restructuring, the strengthening of financial discipline and other
structural reforms in the enterprise sector. These reforms will improve efficiency in
the Romanian economy, will lead to faster growth, and ensure the sustainability of
our successful stabilization program. Ultimately, we expect that the stability thus
achieved and the resumption of economic growth will allow our Government to
ensure adequate social protection to the Romanian people.
7. We believe that sustainable growth cannot be achieved without deepening the
reform of both the enterprise and the financial sectors. Losses of state-owned
enterprises must be curtailed through privatization, restructuring and imposition of
severe financial discipline and stronger governance. Private initiative must be freed
by creating a stimulating environment allowing private entrepreneurs and privatized
firms to grow. At the same time, the banking sector must be strengthened through
privatization, the enactment of adequate prudential regulations and the enforcement
of commercially-minded lending practices. Lastly, capital markets must be
developed in order to ensure adequate reorientation of savings and investment
toward the most efficient operators. Therefore, we have decided to deepen
enterprise adjustment through acceleration of privatization and imposing stricter
financial discipline on enterprises remaining in state hands. This will be
complemented by further financial sector reforms. This program, to be supported by
the FESAL, is described below.
Enterprise Reform Program
3



-34-                           ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 13
8.   Our strategy for improving the financial performance of the enterprise sector
is to: (a) accelerate privatization; (b) remove obstacles to private sector
development; (c) increase the economic efficiency of the of the large loss-making
state-owned enterprises (SOEs); and (d) strengthen the institutional and legal
framework for commercial activity.
Privatization
9.  We are fully aware that privatization and the development of a vibrant private
sector are critical to the success of our structural reform efforts. Therefore, our
privatization program has been placed on a fast track. Our foremost objective is to
complete the privatization of about half of all state-owned enterprises by the end of
1996. By the end of October 1995, we have already privatized around 1,500
commercial companies (CCs), mostly through Management and Employee Buy-Out
(MEBO) and, to a lesser degree, through trade sales, public offers, assets sales and
liquidation of the non-viable commercial companies. We expect that the Bucharest
Stock Exchange, which opened in June 1995, will significantly facilitate public
placement of shares, privatization and capital market development. Trade sales of
medium-sized and large CCs, including with the participation of foreign buyers, are
also increasing. Altogether, we are applying a wide array of market-oriented
methods to reach our ambitious privatization objectives.
10.  This commitment to privatization is witnessed by our recent launching of a
mass privatization program (MPP), which is being implemented within the
framework of a new Law for Acceleration of Privatization. Under the MPP, 3,600
enterprises would be privatized, cumulated, over the year 1997. The MPP is based
on the distribution of new coupons, to complement the existing Certificates of
Ownership (COs) which were distributed in 1992. These new coupons, along with
the existing COs, will be exchanged for the shares of participating enterprises. In a
first stage, the State Ownership Fund will sell, according to the methods provided
by the existing legal framework, shares packages representing at least 40% of the
listed CCs social capital and that are not to be privatized through cupons or COs.
The State Ownership Fund (SOF) will promptly sell for cash the shares not
exchanged for coupons and COs during the MPP. The whole array of privatization
methods legally authorized will be applicable to the cash sale of shares. To
facilitate such sales, we have issued an Ordinance which authorizes the SOF to
grant attractive payment facilities to buyers. To enable the speedy transfer of
governance of these enterprises to the private sector, these facilities have been
designed in a manner that will transfer ownership over the corresponding package
4



ANNEX 1
-35-                       Page 5 of 13
of shares as soon as buyers have settled a minimum downpayment of 20% of the
value of the shares.
11.  Also, the price of unsold shares may be discounted, if warranted, below 70%
of their face value. Such shares would then be offered for sale (with limited and
widely publicized conditions) under standardized contracts open to any buyer
meeting the price and the conditions. Investment funds will be encouraged to
participate. Up to 60% of the proceeds due to SOF for the sold shares will remain
with the enterprises in order to provide the privatized companies with working
capital and to cover their debt service. Lastly, shares remaining unsold as of
December 1996 will be redistributed against a second round of vouchers.
12.   In order to accelerate the process of creating effective ownership structures
and corporate governance, the Governnent will ensure that the shares of CCs are
registered and tradable on the secondary market as soon as possible.. Once the MPP
is completed, but until the end of 1997, the interim share registry will be replaced
by privately managed share registries, opened within the framework of the
Romanian Stock Exchange,  that will  allow  for fully fledged trading in
dematerialized shares. While the MPP is in progress, we intend to continue
accelerating privatization through all other methods available, such as sale of
auction and tender of shares, MEBOs, initial public offering and negotiated sales,
both to local and to foreign investors.
Private Sector Development
13.  We recognize that future growth and opportunities lie in the development of
a healthy and dynamic private sector. Therefore we shall implement a Strategy and
Action Plan for Private Sector Development, which has been agreed with the Bank.
We shall focus on specific actions such as simplification and streamlining of
regulations and procedures for establishment of new companies by concentrating
the operations provided by the law, within the formalities offices that will be
established as part of the local and Bucharest Industry and Commerce Chambers.
Restructuring of State-Owned Enterprises
14. A limited number of CCs and Regies Autonomes (RAs) accounts for a
substantial portion of losses of the enterprise sector. Unable to finance these losses,
they have been infecting the whole economy by building up payment arrears with
their suppliers, the budget and the banks. Hence, our restructuring program will be
targeted at this limited number of large enterprises facing a financial crisis. We
5



-36-                              ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 13
believe that restructuring of enterprises should be left to new private owners as
much as possible. However, RAs are not slated to privatization and large loss-
making CCs are unlikely candidates for early privatization. Restructuring will be
management-led and will be limited to passive restructuring, including, when
imposed by the market conditions, downsizing of some sectors and enterprises,
with the objective of reducing losses and arrears and of restoring a positive
financial position.
15.  In July 1993, we took steps to attack the problem of loss-making enterprises
and lack of financial discipline by placing a group of 30 CCs in a special program
of financial isolation (Government Decision 301/93). These CCs were "isolated'.'
from the banking system, which denied them access to new credit unless they could
demonstrate their ability to repay. Management of each CC was required to operate
on a cash basis and to design a Financial Recovery Program (FRP). It appears that
restructuring is actually happening and a significant group of these CCs is already
generating a positive cash flow. The World Bank, EBRD and EC PHARE financed
technical assistance for implementation of liquidation, privatization and
restructuring. Seven of these CCs have already been privatized or liquidated, and
over the next couple of years we plan to liquidate or privatize most of the remaining
ones.
16.  The isolation program of this first group of 30 CCs has proved to be a useful
pilot exercise. It has achieved some tangible results as labor has been significantly
reduced, under-utilized and idle assets have been sold, uneconomic production lines
closed and, in several cases, uncooperative/poor management has been replaced.
Guidelines and procedures have been established for the design and implementation
of FRPs, for conciliation agreements with creditors and debtors, liquidation,
monitoring -of financial performance and for assessment of management
achievements. Even more important, it has introduced in Romania a new concept of
enterprise restructuring, based on rationalization, cost cutting and internal cash flow
generation, without major investment for expansion and modernization.
17. Drawing from the experience of the pilot isolation program, we have decided
to generalize its concept and to develop it further by way of out-of-court
conciliation between debtors and creditors. The objective of the expanded program-
-called thereafter "surveillance program"- is to place with the enterprises and with
their creditors the responsibility of restoring the financial viability of the ailing
enterprises to avoid threat of liquidation. We created an Agency for Restructuring
(AR) to oversee the implementation of this program. Implementation of the FRPs,
however, remains the responsibility of the management of the enterprises under the
6



-37-                             ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 13
supervision of the Department for Selective Restructuring (DSR) of the State-
Ownership Fund (SOF), which acts as the owner.
18.  In January 1995, we issued an ordinance (Ordinance 13/95) that provides the
legal foundation for the surveillance program and we selected (Decision 212/95) a
group of 151 state-owned enterprises (9 RAs and 142 CCs) to be placed under
surveillance. CCs designated for the program have been given a limited period of
time to implement the FRPs which they have prepared. During this period, their
debt service obligations and their access to the bank credit have been suspended. A
conciliation with the creditors will then have to be negotiated on the basis of the
FRPs, when the enterprises can demonstrate that downsizing and Cost-cutting
measures can generate a positive cash flow before debt service. Failure to agree
with the creditors on an acceptable FRP, or failure to implement it and obtain the
agreed results, will result in liquidation of the enterprise.
19. The RAs would undergo a similar process as the CCs. However, in the case of
the RAs, liquidation is not an option. The projected cash flow of some of them may
still be insufficient to meet their debt service obligations and to clear their arrears,
even after the adoption of realistic cost-cutting measures. Any remaining shortfalls
that cannot be covered with tariff adjustments will be provided for with explicit
budgetary subsidies (which will be subjected, however, to an overall cap) and will
not be financed .with commercial bank credits. The threat of removal of budgetary
contributions, if the RA does not adjust, is expected to provide adequate incentives
to the management of the RAs to vigorously pursue cost cutting, arrears reduction
measures, and to seek financial conciliation agreements with their creditors. We
also intend to separate the policy and regulatory functions of ministries from
management of RAs and to continue our policy of spinning off and transforming
into CCs all activities of a commercial nature presently done by RAs. The liability
of the State as owner of the RAs for their commercial activities will also be clearly
defined and limited.
20.  To concentrate the limited skills and resources available on the principal loss
makers and accumulators of arrears, we have decided to select from the group of
151 enterprises placed under surveillance a subset of 6 RAs and 13 CCs, based on
the amount of their arrears and/or losses and of their sector of activity. The
selection of this limited group of RAs and CCs is expected to enhance financial
discipline in the entire enterprise sector, not only because these enterprises account
for a large percentage of losses and arrears, but also because their creditors will
have to share the burden of financial conciliation (i.e., debt restructuring and/or
forgiveness).
7



ANNEX 1
-38-                        Page 8 of 13
21.  The Romanian authorities have undertaken to put an end to budget-funded
bailouts, and not resort again to arrears compensation exercises. The strict
implementation of the surveillance program should convince a very large segment
of the enterprise sector that we are genuinely committed to these objectives.
Strengthening the Institutional Framework for Commercial Activity
22. A new, modem Bankruptcy Law has been passed in May 1995. It will enable
creditors to enforce their rights. The Competition Law has also been passed. We are
now strengthening the appropriate institutional frameworks to enable their effective
implementation.
23. Another priority is to develop an orderly market for inter-enterprise credit and
to reduce inter-enterprise arrears. New laws governing bills of exchange and
promissory notes have been passed. However, the new Ordinance 13/95 will
encourage enterprises to evidence their inter-enterprise claims by negotiable
instruments.
24. A new accounting system for enterprises and modem accounting and auditing
standards have been introduced in 1994, based on EU directives. Eventually, we
intend to ensure the full consistency of these standards with international standards.
Moreover, in order to implement the new accounting and auditing standards, we
have issued an ordinance organizing the profession of accountants and auditors. In
parallel, a Romanian Institute of Accounting and Auditing is being established.
Social protection
25.    Shrinking of the enterprises' payroll is an inevitable component of the
restructuring of the state-enterprise sector. However, we must mitigate the social
impact of such downsizing. Therefore, part of the limited budgetary resources to be
allocated to support the reform program has been set aside to compensate
enterprises for severance pay (six months worth of salary). A Financial Recovery
Fund (FRF) has been created by the Ministry of Finance with a total budget of Lei
350 billion, in 1995, of which Lei 100 billion have been set aside for severance pay;
this fund will be also included in the state budget of 1996. This will complement
other forms of social protection financed by our social security system and the
Unemployment Fund.
8



-39-                             ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 13
Financial sector reform
26. Our long-term objective is to enhance the role of the private sector in financial
intermediation and to build a competitive banking system complemented by non-
bank intermediaries facilitating commerce and investment. To achieve this
objective, we will: (a) provide an appropriate framework for financial
intermediation and for new entrants; (b) change the system of incentives to state-
owned banks so that they improve their financial situation and operational
efficiency; and  (c) continue to strengthen the supervisory and regulatory
framework.
Appropriate Framework for Financial Intermediation
27.   Our interest rate policy is to maintain market-based positive real rates of
interest. To this end, NBR will influence the level and structure of interest rates
through its refinancing auction and overdraft facility. Government borrowing from
banks will also be set at rates high enough to keep lei-denominated assets attractive.
The Public Debt Law has been passed, and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has
reached an agreement with the National Bank of Romania (NBR) on mechanisms
for open market operations and initiated pilot auctions of Government debt
managed by NBR. As market conditions permit, we shall establish a structured
program and timetable for issuing short-term Treasury bills. This should lead, in
due course, to the development of a secondary market for government securities.
28.  We recognize the importance of developing an effective capital market. The
Securities Exchange Act (SEA) has been approved by Parliament and promulgated
by the President. The SEA and accompanying regulations will provide a complete
legal and regulatory framework for capital market development. The National
Securities Commission (NSC) has been established. The Bucharest Stock Exchange
has been opened and share trading activities are expected to commence
soon.
29.   The growth of emerging private banks in the past two years has been
significant, but has been constrained by the privileged treatment of the Savings
Bank (CEC) which has an explicit government guarantee for its household deposits
(which represent the most stable funding source of banks). In order to lift this
constraint, a level playing field for deposit gathering by all banks should be
secured. To this end, we plan to introduce an explicit deposit insurance for
household deposits with all banks, subject to prudent limits per individual and/or
account. The possibility of a voluntary scheme is mentioned in the Banking Law,
9



-40-                           ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 13
but we concur with the introduction and implementation of a limited deposit
insurance scheme for the individual deposits of all banks, including CEC. We will
introduce any supplementary legislation that is required to achieve this.
Simultaneously, the independence and effectiveness of the banking supervision
activities of NBR will be strengthened to make explicit deposit insurance safe and
secure.
30.   Improvement of the inter-bank payment and clearing system aimed at
reducing the float (amounts in transit) and reducing inter-enterprise arrears by
accelerating payments between customers of different banks is also a high priority.
An important prerequisite for developing a modem  payment system  is by
standardizing payment instrumrents, in both paper and electronic form, and the
respective codes. NBR and the Romanian Bankers' Association (RBA) will develop
and issue such standards by end-1995. RBA has signed a statement of intent with
NBR undertaking to set up a National Clearing House for all interbank payments.
This opportunity will be used to rationalize the flows in the clearing system and to
allow computer technology-based clearing by banks which have appropriate
capacity. RBA and NBR will prepare an action plan for a high volume payments
system for implementation nationwide and in due course they will prepare a
medium term strategic plan for subsequent upgrades.
31.  An effective credit information bureau (CIB) is needed to strengthen the risk
management of banks, the application of the recently introduced prudential
regulations, and the quality of financial information on banks, etc. To achieve this
objective, NBR and RBA have agreed, in principle, on the merits of establishing a
CIB. An action plan to establish a CIB will be prepared and implemented.
Bank Restructuring
32.  The Government recognizes that the financial situation of the state-owned
banks has to be put on a sound basis, and that the Government's presence in the
banking system should be reduced in line with the pace of accelerated enterprise
privatization and to encourage the development of the newly emerging private
banking system. While the 1993 financial audits of the five state-owned
commercial banks indicated that banks could absorb loan losses and attain adequate
capital ratios, their interim statements as of June 30, 1994 show a fragile financial
position. If future portfolio reviews show a worsening of capital ratios, it is our
view that the banks themselves must undertake corrective measures either by
raising their capital (from the net profit and from new investments) and/or by
reducing assets, and that there should be no additional call on the Government
10



-41-                            ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 13
budget. In order to provide an incentive to the banks to build up sufficient reserves,
we have issued a Government decree to allow tax-deductibility of the specific loan
loss provisions mandated in NBR prudential regulation No. 2/1994. Also, NBR will
issue a circular which will allow payment of dividends to be restricted by banks
unless and until they have undertaken full loan-loss provisioning and have achieved
the minimum capital adequacy standards laid down in NBR prudential regulations.
33.  Furthermore, securing a market-orientation in the operations of these banks is
crucial. To this end, we are committed to the development and implementation of a
strategy for the state-owned banks which would ensure their independent
management and/or privatization in a phased manner. Therefore, in July 1994 we
established a Bank Privatization Task Force (BPTF), chaired by the Council for
Coordination, Strategy and Economic Reform (CCSER). The BPTF will develop
and guide implementation of the bank privatization and restructuring strategy
agreed with the Bank. We have commenced this process with a pilot due diligence
exercise involving 'one bank, the Romanian Bank for Development (RBD). We
remain committed to its privatization, which will be initiated in 1996. A second
bank will be selected in 1996 to commence the privatization process. We do not
intend to recapitalize the state-owned banks either by direct equity injection or by
exchange of Government bonds for bad assets except, to the extent necessary, to
avoid systemic risks, or immediately prior to privatization.
34.  At the individual banks' level the five state-ovvned commercial banks have
embarked on comprehensive institutional development programs as a result of
successive annual rounds of operational audits starting as of end-1991. The
programs are geared to realistic strategic business plans and forecasts of future
retained earnings, with a view to eventual privatization. Restructuring of those
state-owned banks which are not readily privatized will be undertaken based on: (a)
agreed restructuring plans; and (b) agreed Policy and Corporate Strategy
Statements. In order to restrict the growth of these large state-owned banks, NBR
has issued a circular requiring the phasing-in of the collateralization of its
refinancing credit lines to banks.
35.   In this context, and given the enterprise sector reform objectives, it is
imperative that the quality of new lending by the banks be improved. The
introduction of out-of-court work-outs and application of bankruptcv proceedings
will be important instruments to enforce loan recovery. To this end, each of the
major banks has created Work-out Departments (WODs) to enhance recovery of
bad and doubtful loans previously granted. These WODs will be made as
independent as possible from the rest of the bank's operations, with the head of the
11



-42-                              ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 13
unit reporting directly to the President of the bank. We envisage that the banks
could restructure credits, grant selective and partial debt forgiveness and/or execute
debt/equity swaps to enterprises which present credible restructuring plans, or
alternatively sell the debt outright at a discount. This exercise, to be started with the
enterprises placed in the surveillance program organized under Ordinance 13/95,
will force banks to bear a portion of the cost of the bad loans because they will not
be able to recover them fully. This should send a signal to banks that new lending
should be based on the borrower's ability to repay.
Bank Supervision
36.    In order to support the reform  objectives for the banking system, the
Government and NBR plan to strengthen significantly the regulatory and
supervisory framework for the banking sector according to an action plan to be
drawn up with the assistance of external consultants. This program will include a
redefinition of the role of NBR's regional branches. Furthermnore, the staffing of
NBR's Supervision Department will be increased to its full complement. This
strengthening of NBR supervision is essential given the growing importance of
private banks, as well as the need to avoid diversion of bank credit to unviable
enterprises.
37.   NBR has issued prudential regulations in line with international standards
covering  licensing,  loan  exposure  limits,  currency  exposures,  insider
lending/connected lending, capital adequacy, loan classification and provisioning.
Rules relating to ownership of banks by non-banks and equity holdings of banks in
non-banks are covered in the basic legislation. A new regulation is to be issued
reporting mandatory annual external auditing of all banks by NBR-approved
auditors. NBR has already commenced on-site examinations focusing on banks'
compliance with the new prudential regulations and has implemented an off-site
surveillance system. As from 1995, NBR will undertake annual on-site inspections
of all banks. Such' inspections will include, inter alia, a critical assessment of the
banks' latest semi-annual loan portfolio reviews and the associated loan-loss
provisioning recommended.
38.  In order to ensure the effectiveness of these regulations, and as a prerequisite
to efficient off-site analysis, a proper accounting framework must provide a sound
basis for many of the regulatory reports submitted by banks for supervisory
purposes. There has been some delay in designing a new chart of accounts for
banks, despite the fact that many banks have been audited by international
accounting firms. However, NBR has now requested technical assistance to speed
12



-43-                          ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 13
up the process and an appropriate action plan will be drawn up shortly to formulate
a uniform chart of accounts for banks, harmonized with internationally accepted
accounting standards, for introduction as from January 1, 1996.
39.  The Government recognizes that there are still gaps in the existing banking
law that would impede NBR's ability to provide progressive and effective sanctions
against erring banks and act decisively in case of a banking crisis. The banking law
will be amended or supplemented with measures to enhance NBR's enforcement
powers. In addition, given the recent deterioration in the condition of the banks and
the expected adverse impact of the enterprise reform program on the banks, as well
as the GOR's position regarding recourse to the budget and the reform program's
objectives regarding the role of government in the banking system, urgent solutions
to addressing problem banks in the future will be examined and agreed.
40.  While we shall implement the various measures and actions listed above, our
Government also intends to maintain a close dialogue with the IMF and to continue
adhering to the stabilization program which has been agreed under the Stand-by
Agreement.
NICOLAE VACAROIU
PRIME MINISTER
GOVERNMETF ROMANIA
MUGUR ISARESCU                             EMIL D,IA
GOVERNOR                               PRESIDENT
NATIONAL BANK OF ROMANIA                  STATE OWNERSHIP FUND
13



ROMANIA  Financial And Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL)
Proposed Program of Policy Reforms
Taken                                                .                                                        Re..lease. . .... ...... . .-- , ...............  ,., .. -.
i:'R- .-XiE-S. t- .E T.E  t... -tH--. :E :gi---.:  .   i i-..E  iT:.E -; ,00  i. - ,, :: . Ti.. j:.    .X....- .-:i.: ,-.E i E .::-E-...g-: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ............... .....
M A C R O E C O N O M I C   Policy measures in compliance  Maintenance of a macro-  Maintenance of a macro-  Maintenance of a macro-  Maintenance of a macro-
POLICY                     with  SAL   adjustment  economic  framework   economic  framework   economic  framework   economic  framework   4
programs.                   consistent with the program   consistent with the program   consistent with the program   consistent with the program   s
Establish appropriate macro-                           as determined on the basis of  as determined on the basis of  as determined on the basis of  as determined on the basis of
economic  framework  in                                indicators agreed upon by the  indicators agreed upon by the  indicators agreed upon by the  indicators agreed upon by
support of consistent trade,                           Government and the Bank   Government and the Bank   Government and the Bank  the Government and the
industrial,  monetary  and                             and progress achieved by   and progress achieved by  and progress achieved by  Bank and progress achiwved
budgetary policies                                     theGovernment  in  the  theGovernment  in  the  theGovernment  in  the  by theGoverninent in the
carrying out of the program.  carrying out of the program    carrying out of the program    carrying out of the program
aq
(D
z
0-zo



:~ ~~~~ .: .: ..... :..:::.:.::.
1 : :: -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                           :: :-...   ..     .    -:-
ves-  kllrft,                                              t~~~~Pole   P o ..m_ __ _  _  __  _  _  _
y-I                   UM::1~~Tke                                      ...tti  ....o Rles                    PorionRelaeJ1.i*rto
PRIVATIZATION               As of 10/30/95,  xxx small  Completion   of  1,500   Completion of at least 2,750   Completion of at least 3,600
CCs privatized out of 3,100;  cumulative   privatizations   cumulative  privatizations,  cumulative  privatizations,
Accelerated  and  effective   xxx medium CCs out of 2,500;   since the enactment of Law   since the enactment of Law   since the enactment of Law
privatization  of    major  and xx large CCs out of 700.   58/1991.                    58/1991, including at least  58/1991, including at least
portion of the state-owned                                                             400 medium-sized and 50   500 medium-sized and 100
enterprise sector.          Signature  of  a  technical  Issue  of  an  Ordinance,  large CCs.                     large CCs.
assistance program  with EU   acceptable  to  the  Bank,
A   CC   is  considered   Phare to assist in preparing   establishingdeferredpayment
privatized when at least 90%   and implementing the MPP   facilffities ior the sale of shares
of its  shares  has  been  and the initial registration of  still held by the SOF after
transferred either to entities  shares.                   exchange of COs and coupons
which are 90%  in private                                 for shares under the MPP.
ownership, or to  private
individuals.                                              Formalization and publication
of standard contracts, agreed
with the Bank, for the cash
sale of shares discounted by
more than 30%.
Launching of the program of
installment sales of 40% of
the shares of the CCs in the
l _____________________     _______________________       M PP.
Establish a market basis for  Signature ofa Memorandum of  Effective activation of an   Establishment and activation
accelrating the trading of  Understanding with USAJID to  interim   share  registry   of  a  system   for  the
shares issued under the MPP   design a system for registration   allowing  for  MPP  share  registration and trading in
and trading of shares.       registration and endorsement  shares.
by the Governmcnt of the
design of a system,
acceptable to the Bank, for
the registration and trading of
shares.
oQ>
CD Z
z
0



R    :     .............................    i  ...  .. ~ ~ ~ . ..  . ,.  .   .  ........  .... . .    .  .-.  -.
. -        ,   - .       '   '    '    '':    '   '    '    '    '   "   '""' "E' ' " ' . "' .' "'' ' " .  ' ' . '. ' " "  "' " ' ""'"' """"'...'. "" ":.''.".-" '
PRIVATE SECTOR                 Implementation   of  several   Endorsement   by   the   Establishment of a simplified
DEVELOPMENT                    SME  development schemes,   Government of a simplified   procedure, as agreed with the
coordinated  by  NAP, with   procedure, acceptable to the   Bank, for the registration of
To  remove  constraints to  international donors, including   Bank, which would ensure   new enterprises.
PSD  and provide incentive   consuking services, training,   that the registration of new
framework and assistance for   incubators, loan guarantee and   enterprises can be completed
economic  growth  and  re   investment funds,                    in less than a month.
employment of the state-
owned sector.                  Existing system  of enteqxrise
registration has been reviewed.
The Government has issued
two Ordinances providing
equal and unconstrained acessc
to public sector procurement
fDr all private sector suppliers.
I-d
lb



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .. .. . ...pokiy   Pro   rw..._ _                  _  _ _   _
Nie~r Issus & Objeeirra  Measun AlreadyBei  Actins:T4Jmes Fr Bor         toa   ro  o  eod          Acin   rort  hr                Acion Prir t
Taken       Presentation              ~~~~~~~Portion Reles          oto ase    seIaigpartio
LOSS-REDUCTION.  Law 76 enables creditors to  Submission to the Bank of  The Government to submit a  Exit of CCs placed under  Reduction of employment in
FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE    enforce their rights. (Penalty  acceptable FRPs for the core  report  to  the  bank   surveillance  from   the   enterprises  placed  under
AND GOVERNANCE OF    interest rate on arrears of  group of 13 CCs.                   demonstrating, in a manner  surveillance program  (GD   surveillance, as agreed with
COMMERCIAL                 0.15% per diem.)                                          acceptable to the Bank, that  212195) except for those  the Bank
COMPANIES                                                                           the   13 CCs have made  referred to below, on account
Bankruptcy Law  has been                                 substantial  progress  in  of one of the following:
Expedite measures to stem   passed.                                                  implementing  their FRPs,
enterprise losses.                                                                   including   meeting  the  (i) privatization;
30 CCs were placed in a                                  aggregate  and  specific
As  much  as  possible,  special isolation program (GD                               benchmarks agreed with the  (ii) reestablishment, to the
accelerate privatization and   301/93) to prevent further                            Bank.                      satisfaction   of  the
leave restructuring to new   contamination   of  banks;                                                          Government and of the Bank,
owners.                    recovery  programs  were   Establishment of the legal  Exit of at least 50 CCs from   of a positive net cash flow;
prepared   by   enterprise   frame w       o r k   f o r  t h e  the  surveillance  program   and
Clarificationandenforecment  management with  technical  surveillance   regime   established by GD 212/95,
of the rights of creditors  assistance financed  by the  (Ordinance 13/95).         out of which at least 20 CCs,  (iii) liquidation.
against delinquent debtors.    Bank.                                                which have not been placed
in isolation under GD 301/93,  The Government and the
Protection of debtors against  Ordinance 13/95 creates an                           have  been  privatized  or  Bank wiU agree a list of up to
creditors   while  in   enablinglegalframeworkfora                                  liquidated,  while  the   10 enterprises which will
reorganization  or in  the  special surveilance progamm,                            remainder of the other 50  remain in the surveillance
process of rehabilitation.  which  would  allow                                      CCs have re-established, to  program for up to one year
participating SOEs to defer                             the  satisfaction   of  the  after third portion release.
Develop an orderly market  servicing their debts, pending                           Governmcnt and the Bank, a
for inter-enterprise credit and   negotiation  of  conciliation                     positive cash flow.
reduce  inter-enterprise   agreements with the banks and
arrears.                   with the other creditors; and   Completion   of 7 privati-  Completion of additional 5   Completion of additional 10
suspension of non-guranteed   zations and liquidations out  privatizations or liquidations  privatizations or liquidations
Transparency  and   new credit. 151 CCs placed   of the group of CCs placed in  out of the group of CCs  out of the group of CCs
justification  in  budget  under surveilance by  GD   isolation under GD 301/93.   placed in isolation under GD   placed in isolation under GD
support.                   212/95.  SOEs required to                                301193.                     301/93.
prpare  FRPs  with  the
objective to reduce losses and
arrears and to genezatepositive
cash flows.
9)
0 m
otD
D-,~



P y Isu o       Objr                                                k s                Ackon:              S d      A ions FPrior to Third         Ao  Prior to
Taken                    PrsnainPrinRlaePrtlo  Rdels                                                         htngNt
LOSS - REDUCTION.  Boards  of Directors  fully  Submission to the Bank of  The Government to submit a   Substantial progress by the 6
FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE    staffed for most RAs. First  acceptable FRPs for the core  report  to  the   Bank   RAs towards phasing  out
AND GO-VERNANCE OF    series of management contracts  group of 6 RAs.                demonstrating, in a manner  unecomimic  activities  and
REGIES AUTONOMES           signed  with  managements.                                acceptable to the Bank, that  improving their cash flow.
New  Performance Contracts                               the  6  RAs  have  made
Reduce losses and arrears of  are being designed. Financial                          substantial  progress  in
regies autonomes. Limit and   control  and   monitoring                              implementing  their FRPs,
ultimately reduce budgetary  organized by sector ministries,                         including   meeting   the
financing of their losses and   MOF and Court of Account.                            aggregate  and  specific
arrears.                                                                             benchmarks agreed with the
Major RAs included in the                                 Bank.
surveillance program.
00
t21t
H X
(D



Page 6 of 11
PolCy Is5UisA & bjeWves       Measures Alrey Being        Actions T.e.: For Boad        A ts Por to Scond            A:o    r    t Thirc                   Po
Taken:                        e       ::                    R       -                    Re ::;                      Po-ti. :
HARD BUDGET                                              Adoption by the Government  Substantial  progress  in  Substantial  progress  in
CONSTRAINTS ON RAs                                       of a mechanism, acceptable  implementation  of    the  implementation  of    the
AND CCs: CAPPING                                         to the Bank, to  forestall  mechanism to forestall future   mechanism to forestall future
FISCAL CONTRIBUTION                                      future build up of arrears in  build up of arrears in the  build up of arrears in the
the energy sector, including   energy sector, as measured   energy sector, as measured
Impose   hard   budget                                   an agreement on benchmark  against benchmarks agreed   against benchmarks agreed
constraint on the availability                           to be met.                   upon with the Bank.         upon with the Bank.
of  budgetary  or  SOF
resources to RAs and CCs                                 An   overall  cap   on   Observance of the agreed   Observance of the agreed
placed in the surveillance                               Government  and   SOF   caps on Government and SOF   caps on Government and SOF
program.                                                 financial support in 1995 to  financial support to state-  financial support to state-
state-owned enterprises under  owned enterprises.       owned enterprises.
the surveilance program
established  by  Ordinance
13/95 for enterprises selected
under GD 212/95, including
specific caps consistent with
the macro-economic
adjustment program, on:
(i) the PRF;
(ii) budgetary subsidies and
investment transfers;
(iii) Government guaranteed
new bank lending; and
(iv)   SOF   corporate
expenditures.
Q>>
(D Z
0
I-X



rolI'y 'Jam.", ' O     s   "'''           '.'     '  ' .t'',,'X..... ..''. .. ... .                                    ..... Prio.Seco*d   . ..  , ... ,'' . ... __, .di.u.  i,.
T:Ake ...e                                         .........  hu         ~       ttf  ies.Thdg  rte
BANK RESTRUCTURING    Successive   rounds   of  Specific loan4oss provisions
AND PRIVATIZAT1ON          jiagnostic studics, finaial  by banks to be rendered tax
audits and portfolio reviews by   deductible according to an
Restrueturing   and   thernajorbanks, haveresulted   agreed phased-in  schedule
privatizstion of state-owned  in  detailed  institutional  dur'eg 1995 and 1996 as
commercial banks which,  development programs.          follows: (a) during 1995-for
inter alia, wiU reduce the                              loans in the loss (100%
share of tihe state in the                              provision) and doubtful (50%
banking sector.                                         provision) categories; and
(b) during   1996   and
subsequent years-for  the
following categories of
impaired credits [i.e., loss
(100% provision), doubtful
(50%  provision) and sub-
standard (20% provision)].                                                                                     I
NBR   to  issue  circular  Submission to the Bank of a   Submission to the Bank of a
requiring banks to undertake  report  from   the  NBR   report  from   the  NBR
full loan-loss provisioning   demonstrating the compliance  denonstrating the compliance
and requiring them to retain  of the banks under NBR's  of the banks under NBR's
50% of the net profit after  supervision with the circulars  supervision with the circulars
tax until they have reached   and prudential regulations on  and prudential regulations on
the minimum level of capital  loan-loss provisioning, capital  loan-loss provisioning, capital
adequacy.                  adequacy and the distribution   adequacy and the distribution
of net profits, and describing   of net profits, and describing
Establishment of WODs in  the measures taken by NBR   the measures taken by NBR
each of the major banks.   against non-complying banks.  againstnon-comnplying banks.
CD'
ozl
wtZ



1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                          :   . :    ...:   :: .   .. .
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .........Poaic   Prog                                                       .     . ....
Take:                            e t                 Port:on R::ee                 portion Re: T n :ati:: P:rti-P
Privatization of at least one   Bank Privatization Task Force   Finalization of a privatization   Implementation of the RBD
state-owned   bank   and   (BPTF) established to develop   action plan for RBD agreed   privatization plan, as adjusted
preparation of a second one   and guide implementation of  with the Bank and approved  in agreement with the Bank,
for privatization.         the bank privatization strategy.  by the shareholders, NBR and  in  order  to  reflect  the
the  Government.  Such   mandatory provisions of the
A bank will be considered as                              privatization plan to iaclude   new Bank Privatization Law,
privatized when at least 51%                              an offer for sale, listing on  if and when enacted.
of its  shares  has  been                                 the BSE and sale of at least
transferred either to entities                            10% of its shares by public  Finalization of a privatization   Implementation   of  the
which are 90%  in private                                 offering, over and above   action plan for the second   privatization  plan  of the
ownership, or to  private                                 those held by the POFs and   bank to be privatized, to be   second bank, as adjusted in
individuals.                                              its employees.               agreed with the Bank, and   agreement with the Bank, in
approved  by  its  General  order to reflect the mandatory
Assembly of Shareholders,  provisions of the new Bank
the NBR. Such privatization   Privatization  Law, if and
plan to include an offer for  when enacted.
sale, listing on the BSE and
sale of at least 10% of its
shares by public offering,
over and above those held by
the POFs and its employees.
An ongoing commitment
from the Government that
there   will  be  no.
recapitalization of banks by
the state budget, by the NBR,
or from extra budgetary funds
except immediately prior to
privatization or as needed
upon a bank being intervened
by NBR.
z
o z
I-.



. .   . -.  ,   '   i W. E    ; i ' ' ' ' t i' ' ' ' i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..........
toiyIw &MuisMsyJt                                         Ain   uu       Bad          Aot......                                     I'M S   I
FINANCIAL SECTOR           Establishment  of  auction   NBR to issue a circular for  Submission to the Bank of a   Submission to the Bank of a
POLICY                     system for NBR refinancing   phasing  in  the collateral-  report prepared  by  NBR   report prepared by NBR,
credits.                     ization  of its refinancing   demonstrating  progres s  decmo ns tr at i ng   f ull 
Achieve  market-based                                   credits to banks, as agreed  satisfactory to the Bank in  implementation of Regulationl
positive real rates of interest                         with the World Bank.        implementingRegulation3195   3/95  issued  by  NBR  inl
to protect value of local                                                           issued by NBR in respect of  respect of collateralization ofl
currency in the light of                                                            collateralization  of NBR's   NBR's refinancing credits tol
anticipated inflation and to                                                        refinancing credits to banks.   banks.
rationalize the allocation ofl
financial resources forl
investment.l
Limit banks' utilization of 
refinancing credits froml
NBR without adequatel
collateral.
Lfl
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ........
Improve  the  prudential  NBR  has issued prudential  NBR to have undertaken to   The  staffing   of  thel
regulation and supervision of  regulations covering:    carry  out annual on-site  Supervision Department of
banks by NBR.              (a) licensing,     (b) loan  inspections  of all banks.  NBR shall be ::icreased to its
exposure limits, (c) currency   Such inspections to include,  full complement of around 70
exposures,  (d)  insider  where appropriate, a critical  staff.
lending/connected   lending   assessment of the banks'
(e) capital  adequacy,  and  latest semi-annual portfolio   NBR to submit to the Bank a   NBR to submit to the Bank a
(f) loan  classification   and  reviews and the associated  report demonstrating that on-  report demionstrating that the
provisioning. Rules relating to  loan-loss  provisioning   site inspections of banks are  requiredon-siteinspectionsof
ownership of banks by non-  recommended,                 being carried out,          banks are takmng place.
banks and equity holdings of
banks  in  non-banks  are                                NBR to issue a regulation   Submission to the Bank of a
covered  in  the   basic                                 requiring   mandatory   report prepared  by  NBR
legislation.                                             independent external audits  demonstrating compliance of
of banks.                   banks  with   mandatory
external audit requirements.
ozt
H ..
...    .........H            1



_  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _                                 _ _  _i.ogr.&s....                                                             ...-. . 
T.e . ...........onR                                                                                      haInNrlo
Reduce  CEC's share  of  Household savings with CEC                                Endorsement  by  the   Implementation of the deposit
deposit-taking  among  the  included in bank liabilities for                       Government and NBR of a  insurance scheme.
population, and provide a  which   NBR   reserve                                   detailed  proposal  for  a
level  playing  field  for  requirements apply.                                    deposit insurance  scheme
deposit-taking by all banks.                                                       agreed with the Bank.
Commercial banks now
competing with CEC for
household deposits.
Improve  the  speed  and  NBR Regulation No. 10/1994,
efficiency of payments by  regarding  a  paper-based
introducing   a  modern   multilateral compensation of
payments system.           interbank payments, became
operational on April 3, 1995.
A clearing sitting is held daily,
under the auspices of the Bank
Setlcments Department of the
NBR, in Bucharest and in 41                                                                                                                l
Judets. In the medium term,
NBR intends to launch a
nationwide electronic-based
payments system.
To establish an effective and   Agreement in principle by
sustainablecreditinformation   NBR   and  the  Bankers
bureau to strengthen the risk   Association on the merits of
management of banks.       establishing   a  credit
information bureau (CIB).
oz
otD



ACCOUNTING AND             New accounting standards and                             Issuance of a regulation by
AUDITING                   an Accounting Law have been                              the  NBR  introducing  a
adopted. The new standards                               uniform chart of accounts for
I m p lem en t  s o u n d,  are based on EU standards.                              banks, in accordance with
internationally  recognized                                                         internationally   accepted
accounting  standards  in   As from January 1, 1994, all                            accounting standards.
enterprises and banks, sup-  enterprises required to prepare
ported   by   competent  their accounts in accordance
accounting  and  auditing   with  the  new  chart  of
standards.                 accounts.
The Law organizing the
profession of accountants and
auditors has been passed.
Establishment of Romanian
Association   of  Certified
Accountants and Auditors.
CAPITAL MARKET             Ordinances 18 and 24 and   Opening of the Bucharest
subsequent  regulations   Stock Exchange
Establish  Capital Market,  adopted. Security Exchange
including the BSE and the   Act approved by Parliament.
National  Securities   NSC established.
Commission (NSC).
Settlement  of  Overdue  In  December  1994,  the                                    The Government to issue a  The Government to issue a
Government Obligations to   Government settled its overdue                          report stating that it is current  report stating that it is current
Banks                      obligations  to  commercial                               in all its payment obligations  in all its payment obligations
banks, as required under Law                             to  the  banks,  including  to  the  banks,  including
7/92.                                                    principal and interest due to  principal and interest due to
banks under Law 7/92 and   banks under Law 7/92 and
Ordinance 1/94.            Ordinance 1/94.
m.\pt\rom\fesal\matrix. 195                                                                                                                                         (D
November 8, 1995
otC
t.tI



-55-                         ANNEX 3
ROMANIA: Fund Relations           Page 1 of 1
(As of April 30, 1995)
I. Membership Status: Joined 12/15/72; Article KIV
II. General Resources Account:            SDR Millio                    % Ouota
Quota                                     754.10                    100.0
Fund holdings of currency               1,590.69                    210.9
III. SDR Department:                       SDR .illion .              Allocatl2n
Net cumulative allocation                  75.95                    100.0
Holdings                                   24.46                     32.2
IV. Outstandinz Purchases and Loans:      SDR  illion                     Ouota
Stand-by arrangements                     524.11                     69.5
Contingency and Compensatory              123.95                     16.4
Systemic TranAformation                   188.53                     25.0
V. Financial Arrangements:
Expira-     Amount         Amount
Approval   tion       Approved        Drawn
Zyp e                         Date     Dare   (SDR Million)  (SDR Killion)
Stand-by                    5/11/94 12/10/95        131.97          56.56
Stand-by                     5/29/92  3/28/93       314.04         261.70
Stand-by                    4/11/91  4/10/92        380.50         318.10
VI. Projected Obligations to Fund (SDR Million; based on existing us- of
resources and present holdings of SDRs):
Overdue                    Forthcoming
4/30/95     1995    l2.6       122Z    12.9      12i.
Principal               --    175.9    245.4      98.4     92.3    83.1
Charges/Interest        --     38.6     57.0      26.0     20.6  _ 14.7
Total                _     214.5    282.4    124.4    112.9       97.8
Prepared by TRE-AFRP



-56-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
ROMANIA: Key Economic Indicators
1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (as
% GDP at Current Market
Prices for 1989-1992, and at
Factor Cost for 1993-1995)
Gross Domestic Product         100      100      100      100      100      100      100
Agriculture and Forestry     14.4     21.8     18.9     19.0     21.0     20.1     20.1
Industry                     46.2     40.5     37.9     38.3     32.4     32.3      32.0
Services and Others          26.0     31.9     39.1     45.4     43.6     44.2     43.0
Consumption                  70.5     79.2     75.9     77.0     76.0     75.1     77.1
Gross Investment             26.8     30.2     28.0     31.4     29.0     26.9     27.5
Gross Domestic Savings       31.3     20.8     24.1     23.0     24.0     24.9     22.9
Current Account Balance       6.1     -8.6     -4.7     -7.8     -4.7      -1.8     -4.7
Exports GNFS                 20.9     16.7     17.6     27.8     23.0     24.9     26.2
Imports GNFS                 18.2    26.2      21.5     36.4     28.0     26.9     30.8
Memorandum Items
Gross Domestic Product        800      858    2,204    6,029   20,051   49,795   68,493
(in Lei bn, current Prices)
Gross Domestic Product     41,347   38,248   28,851   19,579   26,381   20,086   33,108
(in US$ mn, current prices)
GDP (Real annual growth      -5.8     -5.6    -12.9     -8.8      1.5      3.9      5.0
(rate in %)
PUBLIC FINANCE
(as % of GDP at Cur. Prices)
Total Revenues               51.0     39.8     39.3     37.6     33.6     31.6     34.8
Total Expenditure            42.8     38.7     38.7     42.2     33.7     33.5     37.6
Fiscal Surplus(+)/Deficit(-)  8.2      1.1      0.6     -4.6     -0.1      -1.9    -2.7
MONETARY INDICATORS
Broad Money/GDP (%)             -     59.9     46.9     31.0     22.7     21.4     20.0
Growth of Broad Money(%)        -        -    101.2     79.6      141      138     29.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(in US$ mn)
Merchandise Exports        10,487    4,266    4,266    4,364    4,882    6,067    7,424
Merchandise Imports         8,437    9,114    5,372    5,784    6,012    6,550    8,881
PRICE INDICES
Real Exchange Rate              -    102.5    125.9    178.1    131.4    116.7    116.3
(average, Lei/US$ /a)
CPI Inflation                   -      5.1    174.5    210.7    290.3    137.0     31.0
(period average, %)
CPI Inflation (e.o.p., %)       -        -    223.0    199.5    295.6     62.0     25.0
GDP Deflator (%)                -     13.6    194.9    200.0    227.7    139.0     31.0
a/ A decrease in Lei/US$ denotes appreciation



-57-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
ROMANIA: External Financing Requirements and Projected Sources of Financing
(in US$ million)
1999-   2002-
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    2001    2004
USES
Current Account Deficit              516   1,542   1,295    1,062       878     670      228
of which interest on gap loan        0       0       21       38      74      151     229
Repayment of MLT Loans
Public & Publicly Guaranteed       253      372     372      507      651     982    1,430
1. Official Creditors            184      241     230      301      398     552      716
a. Multilateral                 13      101     137      195     243      195      310
of which IBRD                 0        0        0      31       80      108     191
b. Bilateral                   171      140      93      106      155     357      406
2. Private Creditors (1)          69      131      142     206      253      430     714
Private Non-Guaranteed              20       28       35      28       27      31       38
IMF Repurchases                    134     387      366      147     138      201      42
Total Repayments                     407      787     773      682      816    1,213    1,511
of which gap loan                    0       0        0      50       90      299      639
Increase in reserves                1,159    -424     303      506      631     507      520
Total financing requirements       2,082   1,905   2,371   2,249   2,325   2,390   2,259
SOURCES
Foreign Direct Investment            341      367     487      497      507     527      560
Disbursements of MLT Loans
Public & Publicly Guaranteed      1,016    1,282   1,629    1,687    1,821    1,863    1,700
1. Official Creditors            776      724   1,234   1,072    1,164   1,068    1,066
a. Multilateral                391     422      662      790     844      762      764
of which IBRD               263      182      352     470      484     450      464
b. Bilateral                   385      302     572      282     320      306      302
2. Private Creditors (2)         240      558      395     615      657     795      634
Private Non-Guaranteed              99        0        0       0        0       0        0
Total from Long-Term Loans        1,115    1,282   1,629   1,687    1,821    1,863    1,700
Net Short-Tern Capital               -9      65        0       0        0       0        0
Total Disbursements (LT+IMF+ST)   1,457    1,403   1,629    1,687    1,821    1,863    1,700
Errors and Omissions (3)             284      135      -15      -1       -3       0        0
Total financing sources            2,082   1,905   2,371   2,249   2,325   2,390   2,259
I/ Includes repayments of gap fill starting in 1997.
2/ Includes gap fill for 1995 to 2004 (0 in 1994, 297 in 1995, and 243 million in 1996).
2/ Includes net credits extended, bilateral clearing agreements and other financing sources
m:\pt\rom\fesal\annex5pr.xls



-58-
SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of I
ROMANIA
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjutment Loan
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Matters'
ICB2                        Othe,9                      Total
200.0                        80.0                        280.0
m:\ptNrom\fesal\scedb.pr
1/  Estimated amounts.
Z/  [CB for contracts of US$ 3 million or more.
3I   Minimum contract amount: US$250,000
International shopping for contracts of US$250,000 to US$3 million



-59-
SCHEDULE C
Page 1 of 1
ROMANIA
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
TIMETABLE OP KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.    Time taken to prepare:      43 months
2.    Project prepared by:        Government with IBRD assistance
3.    Identification mission:     January 15, 1992
4.    Appraisal mission:          October 1994
5.    Negotiations:               September 19 - 25, 1995
6.    Planned Board Presentation:  January 11, 1996
7.    Planned Effectiveness:      January 31, 1996
8.    Expected Project Completion: June 1997
9.    Relevant SAR:               None
m:\pt\rom\fesal\schedc.pr



-60-                                                SCHEDULE D
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA                             Page 1 of I
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(as of September 30, 1995)
Amount (S milion)
Fiscal                                                                  (less cancellation)
Loan No.           Year             Bonower                     Purpose                Bank       Undisbursed
Twenty-sven non-pooled loans and seven pooled loans                                      2582.22         0.00
were committed fion  FY74 to FY82. These loans
were fully disbursed by end-FY87 and fully
prepaid by FY89. Since then a SAL was approved in FY92; it
closed and fully disbursed this FY.
3363-RO              1991              Romania        TechnicalAssistance                 180.00         4.18
and Critical Imports
3409-RO              1992              Romania        Health Rehabilitation               150.00        86.81
3486-RO              1992              Romania        Private Farmer Support              100.00        27.89
3593-RO              1993              Romania        Transport                           120.00        73.35
3723-RO              1994              Romania        Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation     175.60       174.61
3724-RO              1994              Romania        Education                            50.00        49.50
3735-RO              1994              Romania       Industrial Development               175.00       175.00
3849-RO              1994              Romania        Employment & Social Protection       55.40        55.40
3936-RO              1995          Regia Autonoma    Power Sector Rehabiltation           110.00       110.00
de Electricitate
Subtotal                          1116.00       756.74
TOTAL                             3698.22
of which has been repaid        2182.22
TOTAL now outstanding             1516.00
Amount sold
of which has been repaid          19.78
TOTAL now held by IBRD            1516.00
TOTAL Undisbursed                               756.74
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANtA
B STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1995)
Amount (Smillion)
Date           Borrower            Purpose                                           Loan         Equity   T
1992       ALCATEL             Communication                                            5.85         0.69   6.54
1994       ROMLEASE            Leasing Companies                                        0.00         0.45   0.45
Total Gross Commitments
Less: CaneUllations,                     5.85         1.14   6.99
terminations, exchange,
adjustments, repayments,
write-offs and sales                     5.27         0.00
5.27
Total Commitments now
by IFC                                0.58          1.14   0.00
Total Undisbursed IFC                    0.00         0.16   0.00
Total Outstanding IFC                    0.58         0.99   0.00
October 12, 1995
M:\ROM\OTHER\SBGO.XLS



IBRD 27424
22                                                           26                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28'
:t a    .-  U K R A IN E   -       L         *RA
48  -- -                                                  UKRAINE   -mL'ea                                          '~                                ROMAN  IA
4 T. K.I-e'xn 
o    SELECTED cmEs
H U N  G  A  R Y                        .s   t    -  N   ..        /                                                                                                                            @ c T  SA'2i  S    COUNTY (JUDET) CENTERS
M A R A AA  E                  -                                 etae6                                        *     NATIONAL. CAPITAL
- ~ ~    ' "'[i  La laMa                                                                                                                                  re ^ t SUCEARs A >@sv a>.cn. *   O  -0   EXPRESSWAY
- .\ J -TMAJOR ROADS
* -\   * 9         t              j              r      ,             K      l     s      h    m     TK                        PORTS
---B.! S t Xf y ~ rDl5Tff!T:_                                                                                V    _za A  t  X  Q  *   7 / -~-  RIVERS
To Sudopess f -        Z a                                                                   /                                     *-                                             U - -    - .  /  COUNTY (JUDETf BOUNDARIES
, S cdea , A 4    v S i8|5,Orno                                                                                                                                       -. -  , > / |        _ . INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-   .t       -    2         -    /             >           \      ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~N'Eh'A  T Pio Ira-    ' 
* 2<~-' i   t , :                                         '        /             (                                          _-.J.                       /
(
T. 8-6p1 6                     *                                                       M  UJ R E.  S                                             B.C.                  adI
qtMro7HARC-HITA             .                    -
r- C /                                                                                                                                                    D.  /0   l    20 30   40   50 S                                        0
/                                                                                                                                          K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILDEERS
A -- fr:?   ,   0 0 -0;, ,    &1 \                                                                                                      -A                         c          o U  R ALN
Arod                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46-
nnoe~~~~~~~~on,n,     ~~~~~~~~~     -          ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~         ~~-oiN    U  KRA   IN   E
C ~~~~   HUNEQPAR'A-~                                                    BASOV 
r,         CLnJ  \ZAU          B(         6  
-!Salgtnda  sz9ER/N4K  / I-'            *       ~       P>'flO     - -_ oARGES                                             -
F~~~~~C,  A                                                D                                                                RAEHPOVFg5tT\trt/i_A.br
YUGOSLAVIA                                                  _       ~ ,.      C..v/occQ     ;       =              /-J/C[UR7Xi    )                          > T  J   c_
_ ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~It,                                           n>J           *       _\j/-,        22  P_I    _     _, 0oatate
ondEP onyh                                                                                           nobe 'nfrmo,o ,how on  'Buchc/n'e_slVrn                                                     ',  o
YUGOSLAVIA                                             7~~~~~VLC~A j
En a tot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~So 0_
tht mop do, to t In ott the pett no              t                                      _            ,ooq ol uiuMoorl  z 
Th. WonId oettkD',np ony ,odqnentr                ,                                        -'         - ,           otn-    t            /r  on
on the legol sttou .r Ionz tett,oty or                                                                                                                                                           To .  ,c
oeyendooreaentronccaptontcaof                                                                                                d lnce
uch booudndnries                                   j                                              B U  L G  A  R I A          ~              26-                                                  28'     16 Vano-
NYVEOEELA   I  995









i.:    .             - ,                       
: ,, !   ':T 



