Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7115 MAS 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Public Expenditure Reform Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Page  2
P:\MODEL\LOAN\LA-SAL.DOC 
Dated May 10, 2002 
 
Page  3
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7115 MAS 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 10, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated March 25, 
2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural 
reform of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and 
WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in a 
single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account 
shall be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency 
is not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the Loan 
Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required to deposit 
the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.” 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and 
(b) 
“Mauritian Rupee” and “MUR” each means the lawful currency of the 
Borrower.  
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.
 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to
 
forty million
 
Dollars 
($40,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account 
in support of the Program and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from 
the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If 
the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of 
said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal 
to four hundred thousand Dollars ($400,000).  The Borrower agrees that, on or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the 
Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount 
of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
Page  7
-
5
-
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower to whom is assigned responsibility for 
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Government House 
 
Port Louis 
 
Mauritius 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN  4247 
  (230) 
208 
8622 
 
Port Louis 
 
EXTERN IW 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
By 
/s/ Rajkumar Sookun 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Hafez Ghanem 
Acting Regional Vice President
 
Africa 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed 
or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank 
by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
Page  11
-
9
-
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation. 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to  this Agreement 
1. 
The Borrower has taken the decision to extend the compulsory education from six to 
eleven years of schooling scheduled to be fully implemented by 2005. 
2. 
The Borrower has enacted the Appropriation (2001-2002) Act 2001 (Act No. 11 of 
2001) allocating under Vote 16-1 recurrent expenditures of the amount of 
MUR 3,997,000,000 to the Ministry of Education and Scientific Research. In addition, the 
Borrower has allocated capital expenditures of MUR 1,636,300,010 to the Ministry of 
Education and Scientific Research. 
3. 
The Borrower under Vote 7-1 of the Appropriation (2001-2002) Act 2001 (Act No. 
11 of 2001) has allocated recurrent expenditures of the amount of MUR 1,298,285,000 to the 
Ministry of Local Government and Rodrigues, of which MUR 593,400,000 is for Rodrigues. 
In addition, the Borrower has allocated capital expenditures of MUR 479,000,050 to 
Rodrigues. 
4. 
The Borrower has approved the Action Plan for Poverty Alleviation dated July 2001. 
5. 
The Borrower has enacted the Wastewater Management Authority Act 2000 (Act 
No. 39 of 2000), and published regulations (the Wastewater (Fees) Regulations 2001) under 
Sections 25 and 47 of the Wastewater Management Authority Act 2000 to revise wastewater 
fees. 
6. 
The Borrower has invited Expressions of Interest for, inter alia, the carrying out of 
the feasibility study, detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents for the 
alternative mode of transport (AMT) system between Curepipe and Port Louis. 
7. 
The Borrower has enacted the Finance Act 2001 (Act No. 23 of 2001) providing, 
inter alia, for the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act 1998 by increasing the VAT rate 
from 10 to 12 percent. 
8. 
The Borrower has published regulations under Sections 3 and 35 of the Consumer 
Protection (Price and Supplies Control) Act to increase domestic petroleum prices 
(Regulations 2000). 
9. 
The Borrower has approved the establishment of a high-level committee to discuss 
the scope and focus of the Borrower’s Medium Term Expenditure Framework. 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment 
Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 1 and October 1 
 
Beginning October 1, 2007 through April 1, 2017 
5 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid 
on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, 
the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment 
Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to 
be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  14
-
12
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on 
any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the 
date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if 
at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to 
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall 
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a 
separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
 
