Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16192-ZA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT
(CREDIT 2405-ZA)
SECOND PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM
(CREDIT 2523-ZA)
December 30, 1996
Country Department 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =     Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1                     -     K 130'
US$1                     =     K 5202
US$1                     =     K 1,2503
FISCAL YEAR
Government               January 1 - December 31
ZIMCO Parastatals        April 1  - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COMESA             -     Common Market for Eastern/Southern Africa
ERC                -     Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF               -     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
IDA                -     International Development Association
IMF                -     International Monetary Fund
GDP                -     Gross Domestic Product
NGO                -     Non-Governmental Organization
PIRC               -     Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
PFP                -     Policy Framework Paper
SDR                -     Special Drawing Rights
TA                 -     Technical Assistance
lNIP               -     United National Independence Party
ZAMTEL             -     Zambia Telecommunications
ZCCM               -     Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines, Ltd.
ZESCO              -     Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
ZIMCO              -     Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZPA                -     Zambia Privatization Agency
Vice President                Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director              Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz
Staff Member                  Mr. Emile B. Sawaya
IAt Appraisal of PIRC 1, April 1992
2 At Appraisal of PIRC 11, April 1993
3Current conversion rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................                                   i - iii
PART I:  PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                      1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                                         1
B. Achievement of Objectives                                                  2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                        3
Structural Characteristics of the Zambian Economy                      3
Exogenous Factors                                                       5
D. Borrower Performance                                                       5
Privatization of Parastatal Enterprises                                 6
Civil Service Reform and Government Restructuring                       7
Encouraging Private Sector Development                                  8
Macroeconomic Stabilization                                             8
Rehabilitation and Privatization of ZCCM                                9
E. Bank Performance                                                           9
F. Assessment of Outcome                                                      11
G. Project Sustainability                                                    12
H. Key Lessons Learned                                                       13
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES                                                 14
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS                                              15
Table 2: RELATED BANK OPERATIONS                                             16
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE                                                   17
Table 4: DISBURSEMENTS                                                       18
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS, ACTUALS AND PROJECTED, 1992-96                      19
Table 6: STUDIES                                                             20
Table 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS                                           21
Table 7A: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS                                          22
Table 8: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS                                           23
Appendixes: A.    ICR Mission's Aide Memoire                                   24
B.     Borrower's Evaluation Report                              36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. I






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT
(CREDIT 2405-Z)
SECOND PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM
(CREDIT 2523-ZA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Privatization and
Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC I) and the Second Privatization And Industrial Reform
Credit (PIRC II) in Zambia. PIRC I (Credit No. 2405-ZA), which was approved on June
30, 1992 and became effective on July 23, 1992, provided SDR 146.0 million (US$200.0
million equivalent) and an additional SDR 15.0 million (US$20.9 million equivalent),
and SDR 12.1 million (US$17.8 million equivalent) under two IDA Reflows. PIRC II
(Credit No. 2523-ZA), which was approved on June 24, 1993 and became effective on
December 3, 1993 provided SDR 72.1 million (US$ 100.0 million equivalent) and an
additional SDR 7.0 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) under an IDA Reflow.
PIRC I closed on April 26, 1995 (original Closing Date was June 30, 1994) and
PIRC II, whose original Closing Date was June 30, 1995, is expected to close on June 30,
1997.
The ICR was prepared by Emile B. Sawaya (Task Manager, AFTP 1), with the
assistance of David G. Greene (Consultant), and Carolina Machado (AFTMI). It was
reviewed by Phyllis Pomerantz, Country Director (AFC02) and Gene Tidrick, Technical
Specialist (AFTM 1). The Borrower provided an evaluation report that is included as
Appendix B to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision/completion
mission in March 1996. It is based on discussions with Bank staff, on findings of the
completion mission, which held discussions with Government officials, and on the
President's Report, the Credit Agreement, the supervision reports, and other materials in
the project files. In addition to providing its own assessment (Appendix B), the
Borrower's comments which were included as appropriate in the ICR.






PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT
(CREDIT 2405-ZA)
SECOND PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM
(CREDIT 2523-ZA)
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    The Zambian economy suffers from severe and long standing distortions needing major
structural adjustment. It has suffered, since Zambia's independence, from state intervention and
ownership, resulting in inefficient resource allocation and use. The country has been, and still is,
heavily dependent on copper for export earnings and the copper industry has directly and
indirectly supported a substantial share of the country's industry and commerce and employment.
Since the mid-1970s, both world copper prices and Zambia's copper production have declined
substantially. Attempts to maintain domestic income and employment by borrowing abroad,
especially in the late 1970s and early 1980s, resulted in the accumulation of a massive external
debt.
ii.    Despite several attempts at reform to impose fiscal and monetary discipline in the 1980s,
the Government did not have the commitment to reform needed to resist political pressure. A
comprehensive reform program supported by the Bank and the IMF and adopted by the
Government in 1985 came to a halt in 1987. This led to suspension of debt service payments,
including those to the Bank, and an abandonment of reform in 1987, resulting in a two-year
hiatus in relations with the Bank. Policy dialogue between Zambia and the Bank resumed in
1989. An Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) was approved in March 1991, following clearance
of arrears, but a policy impasse over maize subsidies arose and service on debt to the Bank
stopped again, resulting in a suspension of disbursements, although, unlike in 1987, most policy
reforms were retained.
iii.  In November 1991, a newly elected Government affirmed its commitment to economic
reform, cleared arrears, and agreed to a new Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1992-94.
Disbursements on IDA operations resumed in February 1992. The new Government dismantled
nearly all controls and moved to market-based prices, eliminated import and export licensing,
simplified tariffs, decontrolled interest rates, launched an ambitious privatization program, and
began to decentralize and improve the efficiency in delivering public services. The international
community responded quickly with balance of payments support, debt rescheduling, and projects
and programs supporting reform. The two IDA financed Privatization and Industrialization
Reform credits (PIRCs) were an important part of that response.
Program Design and Objectives
The two PIRC programs were designed to continue the implementation of the
privatization and parastatal reforms and the macroeconomic stabilization started under the ERC.
The two Credits supported Zambia's structural adjustment program, focusing on market
liberalization and civil service reform, and private sector development.



- ii -
V.    The specific objectives of PIRC I were to: (a) support Government efforts to modernize
the business framework by revising existing laws and regulations or enacting new ones
appropriate to the development of a private sector-oriented, market-driven economy; (b)
consolidate the establishment of a market-based exchange rate, foreign trade system and
domestic financial market; and (c) privatize the vast majority of state-owned enterprises, increase
the autonomy and efficiency in the few remaining publicly owned enterprises and streamline and
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the civil service. In addition, PIRC I was used as a
vehicle for supporting Government efforts to meet the cost of the severe 1992 drought; the Credit
amount was raised from US$100 million to US$200 million.
vi.   The second program (PIRC II) advanced the objectives of the first one and expanded
them to include: (a) developing financing arrangements to facilitate increased participation by
local investors in ownership of newly privatized companies; (b) deepening the absorptive
capacity of the local capital market; (c) helping Government to develop a comprehensive,
affordable and socially acceptable program for those made redundant through corporate
restructuring; and (d) developing the capacity of key institutions to deal with the privatization
program.
Implementation Experience and Results
vii.  The general outcome of the PIRCs has been rated as satisfactory. The two credits
supported a program of (a) privatization and private sector development; (b) civil service reform
and government restructuring; and (c) macroeconomic stability. The success of the program and
its sustainability will depend on continued commitment on the part of the Government.
viii.  Progress in privatization has been particularly encouraging. The privatization agency
(ZPA) has established a good operating framework with technical assistance and staffing which
helped accelerate implementation and the decision-making process. Also, the number of entities
to be privatized has gone up. Several measures were adopted which have helped promote
private sector development. They were: enactment of anti-monopoly legislation and updating
of laws related to banking and non-banking financial institutions, business licensing, insurance,
and the stock exchange.
ix.   The program of civil service reform and government restructuring has begun but has
not shown significant results. Initial progress was made in 1992 with the elimination of "ghost
workers", but further progress has been stymied by the lack of an affordable severance package
and shortage of budgetary funds. As a result, the re-organization of government ministries has
been proceeding slowly.
x.    Although some progress has been made in achieving macroeconomic stability,
macroeconomic imbalances have caused problems for business in general. Fiscal performance
tends to go off track at the beginning of each year, and as a result the budget making process
becomes inefficient.
xi.   Government performance has been rated satisfactory in terms of covenant compliance,
preparation, and implementation of the program under the two Credits, although there were



- iii -
increasing delays in releasing the tranches. In retrospect, the program seemed too ambitious as
to Government institutional capacity to implement it in the expected time frame. This was
particularly true of the privatization process and actions such as passage of land laws and
business-related legislation.
xii.   Bank performance has been rated highly satisfactory in preparation assistance and
supervision, and satisfactory in identification and appraisal. The Bank's program of adjustment
operations was prepared in consultation with the Government, and its design helped in
translating the Government's intentions into a concrete plan of action. The program as
conceived tried to accomplish too much too soon. As a result, the agenda of actions for PIRC I
and, to a lesser extent, PIRC II was quite demanding of government technical and administrative
resources. Supervision reports were detailed, and concrete recommendations were given for the
resolution of implementation problems.
xiii.  The main conclusions and lessons learned were:
- Macroeconomic stabilization is fundamental to private sector investment and growth.
- More priority should have been given to abolishing Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation (ZIMCO) to end its resistance to privatization, as well as to the rehabilitation of
the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM).
Civil service reform requires the development of a workable strategy and an affordable
compensation package.
* Some actions should have been postponed and/or not incorporated as specific conditions.
They include issues related to the Development Bank of Zambia, Lima Bank and Eximbank;
establishment of a stock exchange; regulations concerning contractual savings institutions;
development of a plan for streamlining the regulatory framework and licensing requirements
for small scale enterprises and assessing their access to credit.
* It is essential to ensure support of key government officials for the reform program during
the early stages of preparation and implementation. This includes ensuring full
understanding within the Cabinet of the program's content.






PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Structural adj ustment in Zambia is a particularly complex and demanding task,
requiring the full commitment of the Government and the populace and the cooperation
of multilateral and bilateral aid agencies. Zambia's economy has experienced a
prolonged, deep decline, and many of the key institutions needed to carry out a reform
program have atrophied. Furthermore, the economy has been subjected to pervasive state
intervention and ownership, resulting in deep seated inefficiencies in resource allocation
and use. The country has been, and still is, heavily dependent on copper for export
earnings. and the copper industry has directly and indirectly supported a substantial share
of the country's industry and commerce and employment. However, world copper prices
have experienced a secular decline (interrupted by cyclical movements) and Zambia's
production has been declining steadily. Attempts to maintain domestic incomes and
employsnent in the face of declining copper earnings by borrowing abroad only
succeeded in accumulating a massive external debt, mortgaging the country's future. The
result of economic mismanagement was a prolonged decline in per capita output. From
its peak in 1974 to 1990, domestic product fell at an average of 2.8% per year, and per
capita income by 4.8% per year.
2.    The Government made several attempts at reform in the past. Internationally
supported programs were undertaken sporadically during the 1978-1987 period.
However, Government did not have the commitment to reform needed to withstand the
political pressures caused by the inevitable short term dislocations. In the face of these
dislocations, fiscal and monetary discipline faltered, policy reform was halted and, on
more than one occasion, the country defaulted on its international debt, bringing external
capital flows to a halt. The Kaunda government adopted a comprehensive reform
program in 1985 with support for-m the Bank and IMF, but this program came to a halt in
1987 with policy reversals which led to the suspension of debt service payments,
including those to the Bank, abandonment of reform, and a two-year hiatus in relations
with the Bank. The policy dialogue resumed in 1989 and, with the clearance of arrears,
normnal relations with the Bank were reestablished when the Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC), the immediate predecessor of the PIRCs, was approved in March 1991. However
a policy impasse over maize subsidies arose and service on debt to the Bank was again
halted. Disbursements were suspended in September 1991, although most of the policy
reforms were retained.
3.   Iin November 1991, a new Government committed to the restoration of
macro:conomic balance and structural reform was elected. The new Government
affirnmed its commitment to economic reform, cleared arrears and agreed to a new PFP for
1992-94. Disbursements on IDA operations resumed in February 1992. The new
Government began to take action immediately It dismantled nearly all controls and
moved to market-based prices, eliminated import and export licensing, simplified tariffs,
decontrolled interest rates, launched an ambitious privatization program, and began to



- 2 -
decentralize and improve the efficiency of delivery of public services. The international
community responded quickly with balance of payments support, debt rescheduling, and
projects and programs to support reforms. The two IDA financed PIRCs were an
important part of that response.
4.    The PIRC operations continued and broadened implementation of the
privatization and parastatal reforms and the macroeconomic stabilization program that
were initiated under the 1991 ERC (2214-ZA) and were to be complemented by follow
up operations to support reforms in trade, finance and industry. The PIRCs supported
Zambia's renewed and reinvigorated structural adjustment program, which focused on
market liberalization and civil service reform, together with major new initiatives in
private sector development, privatization and parastatal reform. The main objectives of
PIRC I were to support government efforts to modernize the business framework by
revising existing laws and regulations or enacting new ones appropriate to the
development of a private sector-oriented, market-driven economy; consolidate
establishment of a market-based exchange rate, foreign trade system and domestic
financial market; privatize the vast majority of state owned-enterprises, increase the
autonomy and improve the efficiency of the remaining publicly owned enterprises and
streamline and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the civil service. The
centerpiece of the reform was to be the privatization of 90% of Zambia's parastatals over
a five-year period, and giving autonomy to the remaining public utilities through a new
arm's length regulatory system. The objectives of PIRC II were primarily those set forth
in PIRC I, but went somewhat beyond these to include: (1) developing financial
arrangements to facilitate increased participation by local investors in ownership of newly
privatized companies; (2) deepening the absorptive capacity of the local capital market;
(3) helping Government to develop a comprehensive, affordable and socially acceptable
program for those made redundant through corporate restructuring; and (4) developing
the capacity of key institutions to handle the rapidly increasing privatization workload.
5.    Under the two PIRCs, the Government's intentions were formalized into a
concrete, time-bound plan of action designed to restore economic growth. Achieving and
sustaining macroeconomic stability and securing adequate external financing have been
overriding conditions of the operations. The latter ensures that all external partners -- the
Bank, IMF (through its Rights Accumulation Program and later through its ESAF) and
bilateral donors (including those involved in rescheduling debt) -- are satisfied with the
progress of the Government's program and bear the costs of assistance equitably.
B. Achievement of Objectives
6.    The two PIRC operations have to a large extent accomplished their objectives,
and in terms of general outcome, they have been rated satisfactory. In the long term,
however, the success of the PIRC Program and its sustainability will depend on continued
Government commitment to the program.



- 3 -
7.    Progress on the privatization program has been particularly impressive. The
Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) has established suitable policies and procedures and,
with help from IDA and other donors, has been able to recruit appropriate staff and
accelerate the implementation of the privatization program. Good progress has also been
made on private sector development. The measures that were adopted aimed to reform
investment laws and the institutional arrangements to promote investment, as well as the
laws that govern the operations of existing business, such as the company law, anti-
monopoly legislation, the banking and non-banking financial institution, business
licensing, and the capital market and stock exchange. Significant progress has also been
made on the macroeconomic front. Inflation has come down significantly, although it
remains relatively high. Macroeconomic imbalances which appear on a periodical basis
have had an adverse impact upon business activity because of the uncertainty they
generate and the high real rates of interest that are associated with them under a
liberalized setup.
8.    The area where the PIRCs only partially accomplished their objectives is civil
service reform and government restructuring, an area that was emphasized more under
PIRC I. Despite initial progress in 1992 with the elimination of 10,000 "ghost workers",
the 1995 payrolls appeared larger than those of 1991. This was due to Government's
inability to attain an affordable severance package due to the shortage of resources and
the fact that the decision to add non-cash compensation to the severance package as
agreed under PIRC II proved to be less attractive to civil servants than expected. The
reorganization of government ministries is underway, but it seems to be suffering from
the same problem as civil service reform efforts under the PIRCs, i.e., shortage of
resources.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Structural Characteristics of the Zambian Economy
9.    The Zambian economy suffers from severe and long standing distortions that will
require a major structural adjustment effort over an extended period to overcome. Its
major characteristic is heavy dependence on copper and the dualistic structure that has
grown up around this dependence. From soon after independence in 1964, the United
National Independence Party (UNIP) Government sought to gain control of the economy
through widespread nationalization. The economy became dominated by parastatals, and
a one party system was introduced in 1974. Rising copper prices helped the economy to
grow steadily, at an average rate of 4% per annum during the first decade after
independence. Since 1975, however, falling world prices of copper and the general
deterioration of the terms of trade, coupled with the failure to develop a diversified
economy and continued misguided policies, resulted in general and prolonged economic
decline. Attempts to support unsustainable levels of consumption through borrowing did
not contribute to economic growth and created an exceptionally severe debt problem. Per
capita GDP is now more than a third below its 1978 level.



10.   Copper has accounted for nearly 85% of exports, contributed 15% of GDP, and
has been until lately an important source of budgetary revenues. The problem is
heightened by the poor prospects for copper prices and a projected sharp decline in
copper production toward the end of the decade. IDA is giving direct support to improve
the efficiency and profitability of copper production through the Mining Technical
Assistance Credit. Given the importance of copper, unless the decline in production can
be arrested and reversed, near term prospects for economic growth and expanding
government revenues will remain bleak.
11.   The dominance of the parastatal sector has stifled private sector competition and
initiative. Productivity of monopoly parastatal enterprises is low and prices are high.
Publicly provided services are poor: the railways are slow and unreliable; the power
company has been unable to maintain steady voltage, and telecommunication services are
substandard. Privatization and improving the efficiency of the parastatal sector required
breaking the political power of parastatal executives, especially those in the holding
company ZIMCO, who opposed privatization and with it the end of their privileged
positions.
12.   As a result of heavy external borrowing, Zambia had an extremely high debt
burden. Total debt at the end of 1991 amounted to US$6.7 billion, of which US$2.9
billion was multilateral, US$2.5 billion bilateral, US$0.6 billion medium / long term
commercial (including export credits) and US $ 0.7 billion short term. Excluding the
short term debt, Zambia's external debt was US$ 776 per capita, one of the highest levels
anywhere. Alleviating the debt burden has been a prime focus of the Consultative Group
and Paris Club processes, and is the main reason for the yearly and rather large balance-
of-payments IDA operations. Without debt relief and external financing, resource
constraints would result in even sharper declines in living standards, jeopardizing the
political will to proceed with stabilization and structural reform.
13.   The technical and administrative capacity of the Zambian Government to carry
out a complex and demanding program of stabilization and structural adjustment was and
remains extremely limited. Moreover, low levels of civil service compensation make it
difficult to recruit qualified Zambians for high level positions. In recognition of this, the
PIRCs were accompanied by a Technical Assistance Credit (2406-ZA approved on July
13, 1992) of SDR 7.3 million (US$ 10 million equivalent) to finance consultants'
services, training, equipment and services for (i) the development and implementation of
the privatization program; (ii) development of the private sector; (iii) reform of the
utilities remaining in the public sector; (iv) carrying out a Social Action Plan to provide a
safety net for those affected by the reform; and (v) training of Zambian officials. Several
other donors provided generous amounts of technical assistance funds as well. As a
result, many of the key parts of the program were carried out by expatriates and/or by
Zambians paid with technical assistance funds. Unfortunately, in some of these areas,
less attention seems to have been paid to training Zambians so that the capacity of the
Government to carry out the program using Zambian civil servants has not improved
appreciably.



-5 -
Exogenous Factors
14.   Weather is always a complicating factor for economic management in Southern
Africa. Recurrent droughts are a fact of life and the Government's reform program was
made more difficult by the catastrophic drought that affected all of Southern Africa in
the early months of 1992. Zambian maize output was about one third of the post-planting
estimate and agricultural GDP was reduced by over 25%. Substantial efforts were
mounted by the donor community to meet the cost of the drought, estimated at US$ 300
million. It was primarily as a result of this drought that the size of PIRC I was increased
from US$ 100 million to US$ 200 million in April 1992. This increase was also useful in
leveraging donor drought assistance to Zambia. The Government used the donor support
to shield the public from the full impact of the drought on maize prices. Agreement was
reached with neighboring countries on logistical arrangements for large imports of maize.
The drought also directly affected a number of other food products, such as wheat, soya,
sugar, oil seed, and non food agricultural crops such as cotton and tobacco, with an
immediate impact on related agro industries.
D. Borrower Performance
15.   The Government's program, as incorporated into the adjustment operations, was
complex, especially in view of its limited institutional capacity. In retrospect, it appears
that the program was overly ambitious in terms of the areas it covered and the number of
conditions it included and beyond the capacity of the Government to implement in the
time frame foreseen. Progress was slow where institution building or the development of
new mechanisms for institutional reform were required. This is particularly true of the
privatization process (as opposed to the transactions themselves) and the preparation of
business-related legislation. The problem of limited capacity in privatization could be
resolved because it required skills that are normally found in the private sector. Funds
from PIRTA were provided for a limited period of time to ZPA to enable it to recruit the
managers and specialists it needed. The preparation of legislation, however, needed a
permanent capacity at the Ministry of Legal Affairs, and while TA funds were used to
recruit international advisors and to train Zambian draftsmen, the delay of civil service
reform meant that the terms and conditions of employment could not be improved enough
to retain the trained staff.
16.   Government's willingness to enter into agreement with IDA that were dependent
on the action of third parties, especially Parliament, proved to be a problem. Drafting and
passage of amendments to some business-related legislation proved to be more time
consuming than anticipated and the final actions were shifted from PIRC I to PIRC II.
Some of the measures which would permit release of the third tranche of PIRC II such as
the performance contracts for ZESCO and ZAMTEL were considerably delayed. The
third tranche was only released in late June 1996, and the Credit closing date had to be
postponed by one year to June 30, 1997.



- 6 -
17.   The Government monitored implementation of the program closely, especially
macroeconomic stabilization, which was also critical to continued IMF and donor
support. In mid- 1993, a weekly Friday Group, chaired by the Minister of Finance, was
established to monitor the program.
18.   Even with the more intensive monitoring, the release of the third tranche of PIRC
I was delayed half a year and the release of the third tranche of PIRC II by two years by
comparison with the original schedule.
Disbursement Experience
Operation                PIRC I                PIRC II
Board Date               June 1992             May 1993
Schedule*            original     atuali      original    actu
Second Tranche      Dec. 1992  March 1993   Nov. 1993  Oct. 1995
Third Tranche       June 1993  Dec. 1993    May 1994  June 1996
*Schedule as per Board document
19.   Despite numerous challenges over the past four years-- drought, fiscal pressures,
unpopularity and hardships caused by many adjustment measures, and the failure of the
economy to revive, the Government has so far remained firm in its commitment to
reform. However, execution of the Government's program has been uneven.
Privatization has been a significant success; safety net provisions, including drought
relief, have been moderately successful; progress has been made toward macroeconomic
stability, although sustaining it has proved difficult; civil service reform and government
restructuring have not been successful as yet; measures designed to promote private
sector development present a mixed picture; finally, the poor performance of ZCCM
continues to be a major obstacle to stabilization and economic growth.
Privatization of Parastatal Enterprises
20.   The most encouraging development has been the progress of privatization. Once
ZPA established an adequate operating framework, with technical assistance, staffing and
executive leadership problems were resolved, and the political decision was made to
dissolve ZIMCO and thus end a major source of resistance, privatization accelerated. A
new CEO took over the helm at ZPA in April, 1995 and the decision to close down
ZIMCO was implemented in March 1995. These two measures resulted in a notable
acceleration of privatization. Since ZIMCO continued to interfere in the management of
otherwise well-functioning companies and was lax in preventing asset stripping of
companies scheduled for privatization, it would probably have been better to eliminate
ZIMCO at the outset and set up an alternative arrangement to carry out some of its
monitoring activities.



- 7 -
21.   The number of entities to be privatized has been increased as decisions were made
to privatize some operating units and assets separately. As of November 30, 1996, 165 of
271 firms and productive units/assets had been privatized. The number of individual
firms privatized is over 60. The liquidation of Zambia Airways and the end of its drain
on the budget has been a major achievement. New methods of privatization are being
used, including management buyouts. It now appears that the privatization process can
be substantially completed in two to three more years.
22.   Transitional measures had been taken to give the public utilities more autonomy
on key business decisions, including prices and rates, within the context of
understandings on performance with the Government. Permanent arrangements to
govern the utilities' operations were agreed upon in performance contracts which were
signed in mid-1996.
23.   Although the review of privatization experience was carried out before a sufficient
number of firms had been privatized and therefore could not draw meaningful
conclusions, anecdotal evidence indicates that the objectives of privatization -- increased
efficiency and better products -- are being achieved. For example, the private companies
Aero Zambia and Zambia Express have filled the gap left by the liquidation of Zambia
Airways; private minibus transport has successfully replaced the municipal bus company;
and the privatization of beer and cement companies has resulted in increased supply and
better customer service.
24.   Privatization of ZCCM was not a central feature of the program at the outset
because (1) it was thought that ZCCM was too sensitive and too big to be handled (2) it
was thought that ensuring a successful privatization experience early on would be helpful
to generate support in Government and the Zambian public for privatizing ZCCM; and
(3) studying the strategic options to privatizing ZCCM was thought to be a necessary pre-
requisite to a decision to privatize -- hence the agreement to a study on this topic. In
retrospect, this turs out to have been a mistake in timing, if not a strategic error. The
need to give the new ZCCM management time to show what it could do, out-weighed the
need to deal with the effects on the company of years of poor management and under-
investment. This resulted in an unanticipated sharp decline of the company's copper
production, deteriorating financial performance and declining contribution to government
revenues, which have been major impediments to the growth of the economy and to
macroeconomic stability.
Civil Service Reform and Government Restructuring
25.   Civil service reform has begun but has not shown significant results. Initial
progress was made by eliminating 10,000 "ghost workers" and non civil service
"classified daily workers" in 1992. Further progress has been stymied because of the lack
of an affordable severance package and the shortage of budgetary funds. In the
meantime, the Government continued to hire recent graduates of teaching, medical and
other programs, as required by law. Statistics on civil service employment although not



- 8 -
yet reliable, are being improved. The Government has recently adopted a "three for one"
program, allowing the hiring of one new employee for every three that leave through
attrition, and this has already resulted in a modest decline in the civil service rolls.
Encouraging Private Sector Development
26.   Progress on some measures facilitating private sector development has been
encouraging. Most business-related legislation has been revised in an appropriate
manner. Anti-monopoly legislation has been enacted, and laws relating to banking and
non-banking companies, business licensing, insurance and the stock exchange have been
updated. Measures strengthening regulation and supervision of banks and nonbank
lending institutions were implemented and guidelines for capital market transactions and
operations of stock exchange issued.
27.   Attempts have been made to encourage exports. Improvements have been made
in the duty drawback system for exporters. However, tariff reform remained incomplete
because of continued numerous exemptions, loopholes (including COMESA preferences)
and administrative weaknesses, and some businesses suffer negative protection. In
retrospect, the study of the tariff system undertaken as part of the PIRC I program was
not complete and took too narrow an approach. Further reform of tariffs, including
further reduction of rates, elimination of exemptions, improvement of administration and
expediting of drawbacks was essential, and some of these reforms were adopted as part of
the Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit approved in 1996.
28.   The major problem for business has been continued macroeconomic instability.
The most damaging aspect of this has been the emergence of high and highly variable
nominal interest rates, translating into very high real rates of interest and unpredictable
movements of the effective exchange rate.
Macroeconomic Stabilization
29.   Some progress has been made toward reducing macroeconomic imbalances,
especially since the adoption of the cash budget in 1993. The Government successfully
competed its IMF Rights Accumulation Program, and is now implementing an ESAF
arrangement, although the completion of the Fund Rights Accumulation Program
required a number of waivers. Domestic expenditures have fallen from 25% of GDP in
1991 to about 18% in 1995, while revenues have regained their 1991 level of 19% of
GDP, despite falling receipts from mining. The fiscal accounts, which showed a deficit
equivalent to 7% of GDP in 1991, were nearly in balance by 1995. The inflation rate
declined from triple digits for a few years before 1992 to under 40% in mid 1993, but has
hovered between 40 and 50 percent in recent years, which is still too high.
30.   There has been a disturbing tendency for fiscal performance to go off track,
especially in the early part of each year. Although the specific reason seems to be
different each year, it is clear that there are problems with the budget making process.



- 9 -
With low growth of revenues and continued high civil service employment, there is little
margin for error in the budget. Budgetary problems that arise early in the year are
generally resolved later in the year by squeezing expenditures and/or ad hoc revenue
measures, but the damage, in terms of volatility of interest rates and lack of confidence is
already done.
31.   With liberalized credit and foreign exchange markets, and the Government being
the major player in both markets, variations in Government issue of T-bills have a strong
effect on interest rates, and government decisions on foreign exchange sales have a strong
influence on exchange rate movements. Sustained macroeconomic stability requires
better management of the budget, monetary policy and foreign exchange reserves. It also
requires augmentation of revenues and rationalization of expenditures to provide a better
balance between wage and nonwage outlays and increased expenditures for infrastructure
and its maintenance.
Rehabilitation and Privatization of ZCCM
32.  In the PIRC II LDP, the Government committed itself to privatize ZCCM.
However, other than a commitment to review the appropriate privatization options, there
was no agreement on follow-up actions or on timing. Failure to deal more explicitly
with the problems of ZCCM at this stage in the adjustment process has proven to be a
serious problem and may have been a major contributing factor to the slow growth.
ZCCM's production, which averaged 700,000 tons per year during the early 1970s, was
down to about 310,000 tons in 1995/96. The decline in ZCCM's production prevented it
from benefiting from the high prices in 1994 and 1995. The company is now
experiencing cash losses and is in arrears to its suppliers.
33.   The privatization of ZCCM is the only permanent solution to the problems of the
copper sector and is now inevitable. Lawyers and investment bankers have been hired
using IDA TA funds to plan it. In the interim, the company developed an emergency
rehabilitation program and is implementing it with help from newly recruited managers
and specialists. Even with rehabilitation, production from the open pit mine can only last
about four more years. The Konkola Deep project, which would fill the gap, is under
intensive negotiation between the Government and a consortium of investors headed by
Anglo-American Corporation, the largest private minority shareholder in ZCCM.
E. Bank Performance
34.   When the Bank's response to the Government's new commitment to stabilization
and adjustment was formulated (1989-1991), there was already a long policy agenda.
Many of the actions in this agenda had been included in past adjustment operations (in
the 1980's), but not successfully implemented. The program, as conceived, tried to take
advantage of the new Government's commitment to reform to accomplish as many of
these actions as possible in the shortest possible time. ERC included measures to
decontrol prices, liberalize trade, start privatization and reduce the budget deficit. As a



- 10-
result, the agenda of actions for PIRC I and to a lesser extent PIRC II, proved to be quite
demanding of government technical and administrative resources. Many of the key
measures took longer than expected by both the Bank and the Government, while others
of lower priority were carried out. However, viewed out of the context of the PIRC
operations, the actual time required for implementation was not excessive, given the
complexity of the agenda, opposition and foot dragging by affected parties, the
Government's limited technical and administrative capacity, and the time required for
technical assistance to crank up.
35.   The Government that was elected in 1991 had a good understanding of the issues
facing the country and the measures it needed to take. The Bank's program of adjustment
operations was prepared in close consultation with the Government and was helpful in
translating the Government's intentions into a concrete plan of action. There was close
cooperation with the IMF. Bilateral donors who were expected to play a key role in
providing external capital, debt relief and technical assistance, were consulted and kept
informed of progress.
36.   During the preparation of PIRC I, efforts were also made to keep the private
sector and NGOs informed about the content of the program. For PIRC II, the process
was formalized by having a Project Launch Workshop to which key public, private and
NGO representatives were invited. The donor community was also briefed by
supervision missions and task managers visiting Zambia, as well as at Consultative
Group meetings.
37.  In retrospect, more immediate priority should have been given to: (1) the
importance of macroeconomic stabilization for private sector investment and growth; (2)
the urgency of abolishing ZIMCO to end its resistance to privatization; (3) the
development of a workable strategy and compensation package for civil service reform;
and (4) the rehabilitation and privatization of ZCCM. On the other hand, streamlining the
Investment Center, amending or enacting various pieces of business-related legislation,
issuing guidelines for operation of the capital market, and developing a regulatory agency
for public utilities, all included in PIRC I, could have been done later in the adjustment
process. Similarly, dealing with the problems of the Development Bank of Zambia, Lima
Bank and Eximbank, establishment of a stock exchange, regulations concerning
contractual savings institutions, development of a plan for streamlining the regulatory
framework and licensing requirements for small scale enterprises and improving their
access to credit, included in PIRC II, could well have been postponed for a year or so, or
action could have been focused on a smaller number of the most urgent of those actions.
38.   During the early stages of implementation, it became clear that some key
government officials were not fully aware of the content of the program. This required
continuous educational activity on the part of Bank staff during preparation and
implementation of the program. Execution of the program was closely and virtually
continuously overseen by the Bank. The two operations were presented to the Bank's
Executive Directors less than a year apart. This meant that PIRC II was being appraised



- 11 -
and negotiated during the implementation of PIRC I, reinforcing the pressure for close
monitoring and coordination. Moreover each operation was supposed to disburse in three
tranches within a year, (one on effectiveness and, the second after six months and the
third after a year). As a result, Bank involvement in Zambia was almost continuous and,
given the limited capacity on the Zambian side, somewhat overwhelming.
39.   Supervision reports were detailed, covering the program point by point. Where
implementation was lagging or problems seemed to be arising, concrete
recommendations were made for their resolution. Extensive, detailed Aide Memoires
were left with the Government, including matrices outlining the status of actions taken
and further measures required. When progress of the program was not satisfactory,
tranche releases were delayed and when timing of actions no longer seemed realistic,
appropriate adjustment were made to allow them to be undertaken later in the process.
F. Assessment of Outcome
40.   The success of the stabilization and structural reform strategy was to be evaluated
on the basis of three criteria: (1) implementation of macroeconomic policies for
stabilization as measured against targets for fiscal deficit, monetary expansion and
inflation; (2) progress of public sector reform, including divestiture of parastatals and
reform of public utilities, as judged by the volume of privatization, achievement of
financial targets for the remaining public utilities, reform of the civil service, and
improved delivery of social services; and (3) diversification and growth of the economy,
as measured by reduced dependence on copper and increased growth of the private sector.
41.   The projects can be viewed as satisfactory, in the sense that almost all of the
policy agenda was implemented However, macroeconomic stabilization lagged seriously
behind expectations. PIRC I forecast the rate of inflation as declining from over 93% in
1991 to 5% in 1994. In fact, inflation accelerated to almost 200% in 1992 and, although
it declined significantly thereafter, the increase in consumer prices in 1994 was still over
50%. This persistence of inflation reflected a slower than expected reduction in the fiscal
deficit. In addition, inflation was accompanied by high and volatile interest rates, which
discouraged domestic investment. The (macroeconomic) outcome indicators in the
appendices to the PIRC operations proved to be optimistic. PIRC I foresaw GDP growth
of 2% in 1992, 3% in 1994 and 4% in 1995. PIRC II recognized the negative growth of
GDP in 1992 (-9.6), primarily as a result of drought. However, it forecast a recovery of
11.9% in 1993 and a steadying of growth thereafter at somewhat over 5% per annum. In
the event, growth has not recovered, in part because of continued adverse climatic
conditions. However, the failure of domestic investment to recover was critically
responsible for the poor growth performance. Whereas PIRC I and PIRC II forecast
investment recovering to 20.5% of GDP in 1993, the actual level appears to have been
less than 10%.



- 12 -
GDP Growth Estimates
1991       1992       1993        1994        1995
PIRC I                -1.0        2.0        3.0         4.0
PIRC II              -1.8        -9.9        11.9        5.4     5.6 (1996)
Latest Estimate       0.0        -2.5        6.5        -3.1        -3.9
42.   As a result of adverse developments in agriculture and mining, inadequacies in the
formulation of the adjustment program and delays and slippages in its execution, and
problems in the implementation of the macroeconomic program, targets for growth and
diversification of the economy were not attained. GDP growth was positive in only one
year since 1991 (1993, a year when agriculture was recovering from drought) and per
capita income has continued to decline. Poverty probably increased over the last four
years due to the decline in per capita income. Infant mortality has risen from 108 in 1990
to 113 in 1994; and adult illiteracy from 25% to 33%. Initial findings of the ongoing
Poverty Assessment indicate that there was a severe adverse impact on the urban poor.
43.   Nevertheless, there are some bright spots. Some new cash crops have developed -
- soya, cotton, tobacco, horticulturals, floriculture. Market liberalization has encouraged
a shift from maize to more drought resistant crops. Nontraditional (non metal) exports
have been increasing by 15-20%, per year and exceed US $ 175 million in 1995.
G. Project Sustainability
44.   The sustainability of the Government's program ultimately depends on its success
in generating improving living standards. Without this, the Government will come under
increasing political pressure to abandon or slow down implementation. The Government
must also increase its efforts to protect the livelihood of vulnerable groups and to spread
the benefits of growth through intensified provision of human services and critical
infrastructure, especially in rural areas.
45.   Accelerating growth will require improved performance in macroeconomic
management, with the aim of bringing the rate of inflation down to single digit levels,
reducing the nominal and real rates of interest, and maintaining the real exchange rate at
levels that promote growth of the tradables sector. The key to this will be further
improving fiscal performance through enhanced revenues and rationalized expenditures.
ZCCM's poor performance is a major impediment to growth. Given the enormous
amount of investment required to rehabilitate existing ZCCM operations, only after
privatization is completed will copper mining begin to recover. Finally, adequate
external financing must be insured. This will require continued government commitment
to the reform process and stabilization. Performance on macro policy, ZCCM, and
"governance" issues will be vital for the resumption of aid flows.



- 13 -
H. Key Lessons Learned
Some of the lessoizs learned from the implementation of the PIRC's are:
(a) macroeconomic stabilization is fundamental to private sector investment and growth;
(b) less faith should have been put into ZIMCO's ability to reform itself, and more
priority should have been given to abolishing ZIMCO to end its resistance to
privatization and to the privatization of ZCCM because of its importance to growth
strategy;
(c) civil service reform requires the development of a workable strategy and an
affordable compensation package;
(d) there were too many specific conditions of tranche release and too much emphasis on
legislation; and
(e) it is essential to ensure the support of key government officials for the reform
program during the early stages of preparation and implementation. This includes
ensuring full understanding within the Cabinet of the program's content.



- 14-
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of Objectives
B.    Program Sustainability
C.    Bank Performance
D.    Borrower Performance
E.    Assessment of Outcome
Table 2:     Related Bank Operations
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Disbursements
Table 5:     Key Indicators, Actuals and Projected, 1992 - 1996
Table 6:     Studies
Table 7:     Status of Legal Covenants (PIRC I)
Table 7A:    Status of Legal Covenants (PIRC II)
Table 8:     Bank Resources - Missions



- 15 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives                                                                            Substantial                                        Partial                                             Negligible                                           N/A
Macroeconomic Policies                                                                                                                                     4
Sector Policies                                                                                                                                            i
in i e........................................... ............ ................................ .................................. ........................................... ...........................  ...................................
Financial Objectives                                                                                                                                     .
Institutional Development                                                                              4
.......................................................................................  ...........................................  ...........................................  ................................................................
Physical Objectives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
Poverty Reduction                                                                                                                                                                                              4
....................................................................................... ................................ ........... ................................ ........... .... ......................................  ..... ............... .................................
Gender Concerns                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
.......................................................................................  ........................................... ...........................................  .......................................... ......................
Other Social Objectives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
Environmental Objectives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
....................................................................................... ................................ ........... ................................ ........... .... ......................................  ..... ............... .................................
Public Sector Management                                                                                                                                   4
.............................................................................                          ...........................   ...........................................  ...........................................
Private Sector Development                                                                             i
B. Program Sustainability                                                                                                    Likely                                                            Unlikely                                                            Uncertain
_                       _                _               _                _               _                   _               ___                                         I            ____                                                              ____
C. Bank Performance                                                                                       Highly Satisfactory                                                             Satisfactory                                                              Deficient
Identification                                                                                                                                                                                            4
....................................................................................... ................................ ......................................................... ..................... ................................................................................
Preparation Assistance                                                                                                               4
Apr i................ ............................................................... .....................................   .....................................................................I...
Appraisal                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
Supervision                                                                                                                          4
D. Borrower Performance                                                                                   Highly Satisfactory                                                              Satisfactory                                                             Deficient
Preparation                                                                                                                                                                                               4
.......................................................................................  ......................................................... .........................................................  .....................................
Implementation                                                                                                                                                                                            4
Covenant Compliance                                                                                                                  4
E. Assessment of Outcome                                                                                            Highly                                       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory                                                                                 Highly
Satisfactory                                                                                                                                            Unsatisfactory



- 16 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK OPERATIONS
Credit Title                        Purpose                Fiscal      Status
Year
Preceding Operations
Economic Recovery                  Macroeconomic stabilization, agricultural  1986  Completed
Second Economic Recovery           ector liberalization, private sector  1991  Completed
xpansion, and restructuring and
eforming the civil service and the
parastatal sector.
Parallel Operations
Privatization/Industrial Reform TA  To strengthen capabilities in ministries    1992  Under
nd other responsible institutions for      implementation
parastatal reforms and privatization.
Economic and Social Adjustment     Macroeconomic expansion and structural  1994  Under completion
djustment; expansion of non-traditional
xports; agricultural expansion; improved
_________________________________d elivery of social services.
Financial/Legal Management Upgrading To improve flow of government business  1994  Under
in developing programs and reforms in      implementation
areas of accounting, auditing, public
sector procurement, legal drafting, justice
administration, and provision of business
information.
Following Operations
Economic Recovery/Investment       To consolidate improvements in       1996
Promotion                          macroeconomic management, stimulate
investment, reform the social security
system, and support mining industry
restructuring, with increase of private
sector participation.
Agriculture Sector Investment Program   Economic growth and poverty reduction   1995  Under
by improving efficiency in agricultural    implementation
production, increasing food security,
generating income and employment, and
increasing export earnings. Also support
to privatization of agricultural enterprises
Health Sector Support Program      To improve the access to and utilization    1995  Under
of quality health care, nutritional        implementation
interventions and family planning



- 17 -
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification
PIRC I                                           June 1990
PIRC II                                        November 1992
Preparation
PIRC I                                          March 1992
PIRC II                                          April 1993
Appraisal
PIRC I                                          March 1992
PIRC II                                          April 1993
Negotiations
PIRC I                                           May 1992
PIRC II                                          April 1993
Letter of Development Policy
PIRC I                                           May 1992
PIRC II                                          May 1993
Board Presentation
PIRC I                                           June 1992
PIRC II                                          June 1993
Signing
PIRC I                                           July 1992
PIRC II                                        September 1993
Effectiveness
PIRC I                    July 1992              July 1992
PIRC II                   July 1993            December 1993
First Tranche Release
PIRC I                    July 1992              July 1992
PIRC II                December 1993           December 1993
Second Tranche Release
PIRC I                 December 1992            March 1993
PIRC II                November 1993            October 1995
Third Tranche Release
PIRC I                   June 1993            December 1993
PIRC II                   May 1994               June 1996
Closing Date
PIRC I                  June 30, 1994          April 26, 1995
PIRC II                 June 30, 1995           June 30, 1997



96/90
S06/O                                                                                                                                                6/ZI                                                                                                    (satqOuJI )  II JHId
6/O
6/ZI                                                Z6/LO                                                                                                     (SaqOuuell )  I JHId
1u3tusjnqsiC p uemjlljo o C[
-L                                                  S-9                                                   9-tb                                                  1F                                                  CLO                                                                                                        MOUa1 lsJi1
bOI1                                               ZZO I                                                  S0t Ob                                                Ob                                                                               ...d .
................................. .......... ....................... ......... ........... ............. .................... ............ .....................I........... .......... ................................. ........... .................................................
6L LI                                                                                                                                                                                                           mOPJ-d Puoz)3S
.................................   ....................    .................................    ..............................    ........................ ....  . ......................................I.............
60OZ                                                                                                                                                            MOIJ3){ isJi1
6'90Z                                                 L'tO7                                                 8I191                                                                                                                                                                             I Jild
(uolll!u sn) sAIDaA!flUlna
8-0                                                     6-1                                                   9-1                                                    -Z                                               LO                                                                                                       MOU3- I SJIA
.................................   .................................  .................................   .................................  .................................   .................................................... .......................
61 , 1                                                           9 LI                                       Z'O    ,                                                 ,Ot'                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I J..Id
................................. ..................                                                           ................................. ...........................,,,,..............  ........  ................................ ,..,.....,,,,....,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,...................
6L LI                                                                                                                                                                                                           mOUJ3J PuOOOS
................................. ........ ......................... ....... ........ ..................I............... ........ ......... ....................... ......... ................................. ........ .......................................................
................................. ........ ......................... ....... ........ .................. ............... ........ .......... .....:................. ......... ................................. ........ ....................:...................................
Z' I                      67~                                                   8 19I                                                                                                                                                                              I J'HId
0 01                                                                                                                  661 .i3qtu3o3C - mopJ-d sJiij
...................... .... .................... .....0 O'O                                                                            O'L                                                                                                                       .................................
................................. ........ ........................ ........ ........ .................I................ ........ ........ ........................ ......... ................................. ........ .......................................................
6L LI                                                                                                                                                                                   t'661 Ounlf - MOtJJ;) PuoO3S
.............................................................................................................................................................    ............................................................................................
60OZ                                                                                                                                         661 3uflf - mo[J-d Isiij
OOOZ                                                                                                                                                                             I DJId
(uoill!u $snf) aiWulsL ls!UJddV
L6AJ                                                  96A                                                  S6AA                                                   t'6AA                                                   M6AA
SjKNjWaSMdnfSSIa :b alqLj
- 81 -



- 19-
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS, ACTUALS AND PROJECTED, 1992-96
(% UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)
Actual              Est               Bank Projections"
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996        1992   1993   1994    1996
GDP Growth                         -2.5    6.5    -3.1    -3.9      5.0       -10.0   12.3    5.3      4.5
Real Per Cap. Consumption Growth   -8.6    -5.4    -2.0     3.6    -5.5        13.2   -2.9    .06    -1.8
Total Investment/GDP               10.5    12.0    13.8    13.0    13.9        15.0   14.1    17.2    18.3
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP         6.4     8.6    10.0    4.7       6.7        6.4    9.1      7.9    10.9
Current Account Balance - US$ Mn' -753.0  -471.8  -408.3  -606.5  -541.6      -714   -568   -766    -658
Total Debt excl. Gapfill - US$ Mn  6943    6788    6496    6770    6411       7041    n/a    n/a       n/a
Total Revenues/GDP0                18.4    14.6    18.1    16.9    15.8        31.7   22.0   27.7    27.3
Total Expenditures/GDP'           33.1    26.5    28.7    25.8    22.5         28.4   21.2   22.1    20.3
Deficit (- = deficit)/GDP         -14.7   11.9   -10.6   -8.8    -6.7          3.3     0.8    5.6      7.0
Consumer Price Index Growth Rate   197.4   189.0   53.4    34.6    35.7       226.1   147.5   46.8    10.0
4Projections are from theESAC President's Report (P-6248-ZA) dated February 15, 1994
5Excluding foreign grants.
6 Excluding capital grants.
Including net lending.



- 20 -
Table 6: STUDIES
Study                            Purpose                      Status
Under PIRC I:
External Tariff Reform            In-depth study to formulate a strategy  Second Tranche release
and timetable for reforms.        condition. Completed
Under PIRC II:
Private Sector Development        To plan revision of regulations   Second Tranche release
governing insurance companies,    condition
pension funds and other contractual
savings institutions with a view to
strengthen their role in the capital
market.
Privatization Impact Assessment    To examine the impact and        Third Tranche release
effectiveness of the privatization  condition
program.
Small Scale Enterprises (SSEs)    To review industrial licensing and the  Third Tranche release
regulatory framework for SSEs     condition
Public Utilities                  To make recommendations for
appropriate regulatory arrangements in
the longer term for all public utilities.
Also review issues related to interest
costs on late payments, long delays in
settlement of due bills, obsolete tariff
structures.



- 21 -
Table 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
(Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjustment Credit - PIRC I)
Loan
Agreement
Section                     Description of Covenant                                Comments
Schedule 3  The Borrower has:
No1       established the negative list of imports under the Open General        Complied with.
No. I  License system including no more than 10% of base-period imports
No. 2     removed the import substitution bonus on domestically produced         Complied with.
maize, and increased into-mill price of imported yellow maize to the
equivalent of $16.20 per bag
No. 3     completed all steps within its control to achieve the objective of     Complied with.
privatizing about ten government-owned companies
No. 4     offered for sale a group of companies (including several larger and    Complied with.
significant companies) whose turnover will roughly be equivalent to
10% of the total turnover of companies to be privatized
No. 5     implemented measures, to protect the vulnerable groups                 Complied with.
No. 6     submitted a resolution adopted by the ZIMCO Board of Directors for     Complied with.
Nhe restructuring of ZIMCO
Schedule 4    he Borrower has:
No. I     ompletely eliminated subsidies on mealie-meal                          Complied with.
No. 2     completed a study of external tariffs; submitted timetable for tariff  Complied with.
reform; and reduced tariff from 50% to no more than 40%
No. 3     implemented measures for operating the Investment Center to            Complied with.
treamline investment licenses
No. 4     Enacted amendments in the legislation of banking, companies,           Complied with.
business licensing, insurance and stock exchange to facilitate private
ector participation in the economy; and enacted anti-monopoly
egislation
No. 5    issued guidelines for capital market transactions and Stock Exchange    Complied with.
operation
No. 6     implemented measures to strengthen power of Bank of Zambia to          Complied with.
egulate and supervise commercial banks and other lending
institutions
No. 7     introduced reforms on business taxation, including broadening of tax   Complied with.
. ase, lowering the tax rate, and speeding up pace of tax collection
No. 8     completed measures to privatize additional ten companies               Complied with.
No. 9     ompleted review and submitted a plan of action of the non-ZIMCO        Complied with.
. arastatals
No. 10    adopted an automatic price adjustment mechanism of public utilities    Complied with.
. nd established a public utilities regulatory system
No. I I    reduced the number of government employees by 10,000 and              Complied with.
oevelopment program for further reductions, including measures to
assist those made redundant
No. 12    as part of ZIMCO restructuring, abolished sub-holding companies        Complied with.
and transformed ZIMCO into investment holding company
No. 13    implemented measures to protect vulnerable groups                      Complied with.



- 22 -
Table 7A: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
(Second Privatization and Industrial Reform  Adjustment Credit - PIRC II)
Loan
Agreement                          Description of Covenant                                           Comments
Section
Schedule 3
No. I       n accordance with the Second Program, the Borrower has:
No. If ()   appointed a managing institution for the Privatization Trust Fund (PTF) and          Complied with.
No. (a    transferred to PTF the shareholdings reserved by it for sale to the public in at
least one of the companies being privatized
No. I(b)    furnished to the Association a report on the privatization options for ZCCM          Complied with.
dopted a comprehensive program of assistance and compensation for staff mad        Complied with.
No. I(c)     edundant by parastatal organizations and privatized enterprises, including the
possibility of using non-cash payments, such as company shares, housing, and
ther assets
No. I (d)   adopted an action plan for the development of investment financing and for the       Complied with.
future roles of the Development Bank of Zambia, the Lima Bank and Eximbank
completed a study and furnished to the Association its plans for the revision of    Complied with.
No. I(e)     he regulations governing insurance companies, pension funds and other
ontractual savings institutions, to facilitate investment of their resources in
capital market instruments
No. 1(0      nacted or amended, as the case may be, the legislation referred to in Section       Complied with.
.01 (b) of the DCA
No.2       The competent body has issued all necessary regulations for the operation of a       Complied with.
stock exchange and such exchange is operational
Schedule 4
The Borrower has completed an assessment of the impact of the privatization         Complied with.
No. 1       spects of the First and Second Programs and reviewed the results with the
Association
The Manager of the PTF has furnished to the Trustees of the PFT and the             Complied with.
No. 2      Association a detailed plan for divestiture of shares held by the PTF
No. 3      The Borrower has adopted:
No. 3(a)    the action plan designed to strengthen the regulatory framework of the Public        Complied with.
No. (a)   Utilities (paras. 25 and 26 of Second Letter of Development Policy)
No. 3(b)    Zambia operational frameworks for the Post and Telecommunication                     Complied with.
No. 3(b)    orporation, Railways and the Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
No. 3(c)    in action plan for a development of a land market, including proposals relating      Complied with.
No. 3(c)  o ownership and transfer of land
No. 4       he Borrower has completed:
review of the effectiveness of the Investment Act and of the Investment Center     Complied with.
No. 4(a)    and has adopted a time-bound action plan for correcting any shortcomings
dentified by the review
a review of the regulatory framework for small-scale enterprises (SSE) and          Complied with.
No. 4(b)     adopted a time-bound action plan for reducing and streamlining the regulatory
md licensing requirements for SSEs and for easing their access to credit
N. 5        n accordance with the Privatization Program (para. 18 of Second Letter of
No.       Development Policy), the Borrower has:
No. 5(a)     ompleted the sale of liquidation of at least 15 enterprises                         Complied with.
No. 5(b)     aken all steps within its control to bring to the point of sale a further 20        Complied with.
enterprises
ffered for sale a total of not less than 60 enterprises under the First and Second  Complied with.
No. 5(c)     rograms



- 23 -
Table 8: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Stage of the Project Cycle        Month/Year           Number of    Days in Field
persons
Identification/Preparation
PIRC I                  October/November 1990         6               12
March 1991              5                5
May 1991               4                5
July 1991              4               10
PIRC II                     February 1993              7              10
Appraisal
PIRC I                       March 1992               6               15
PIRC II                       April 1993              9               10
Supervision
PIRC I                       August 1992              1               9
PIRC I and II                   August 1993              2               15
November 1993             5               23
March 1994              7               18
May 1994                7              18
July 1994              6               20
October 1994             2               18
November 1994              1              10
May 1995                1              10
July 1995              3               5
December 1995             4               5
Completion
PIRC I and II                   March 1996               1               12



- 24 -
Appendix A
Page 1 of 12
Aide Memoire
Implementation Completion Report: Privatization and Industrial Reform
Adjustment Credit (PIRC I) and Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
(PIRC II); and Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC)
Purpose of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and Role of the Borrower
1.    The World Bank requires that an ICR be prepared for each project shortly after its
closing date. The purpose of this mission has been to prepare ICRs for PIRC I, PIRC II
and ESAC. Because the two PIRCs are closely related, a single report will be prepared
covering both. The ESAC will be covered in a separate ICR. The purpose of this aide
memoire is to review briefly the purpose of ICRs and the borrower's responsibility for
assisting in their preparation and to convey a preliminary assessment of the
implementation experience of these operations, their development impact and the
sustainability of the reforms they supported. At the outset, I would like to thank the
Government for its cooperation in this effort and for the frank and useful comments on
the major issues.
2.    The ICR is designed to provide feedback from implementation experience, to
promote greater development impact and sustainability of future projects, reinforce
self-evaluation, meet requirements for accountability and facilitate assessment of
development impact.
3.    The borrower is responsible for preparing its own final evaluation report on the
project, as required in the General Conditions. This report should be no longer than ten
pages and should include:
(i) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation
experience;
(ii) an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be
relevant for the future;
(iii) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank and any cofinanciers during the
evolution and implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the
relationships among the borrower, the bank, and cofinanciers.
4.    The borrower will receive the Bank staffs draft ICR and should provide
comments on it within two months of receiving it.



- 25 -
Appendix A
Page 2 of 12
Background of the Adjustment Operations
5.    Structural adjustment in Zambia is a particularly complex and demanding task,
requiring the full commitment of Government and the populace and the cooperation of
multilateral and bilateral aid agencies. Zambia's economy has experienced prolonged,
deep decline and many of the key institutions needed to carry out a reform program have
atrophied. Furthermore, the economy has been subjected to pervasive state intervention
and ownership, resulting in deep seated inefficiencies in resource allocation and use. The
country has been and still is heavily dependent on copper for export earnings and
government revenues and the copper industry has directly and indirectly supported a
substantial share of the country's industry and commerce and employment. However,
world copper prices have experienced a secular decline (interrupted by cyclical
movements) and Zambia's production has been declining steadily Attempts to maintain
domestic incomes and employment -n the face of declining copper earnings by
borrowing abroad only succeeded in accumulating a massive external debt, mortgaging
the country's future.
6.    Numerous efforts at stabilization and adjustment during the 1980s were not
successfully implemented, as the Government did not have the commitment to reform
needed to withstand the political pressures caused by the inevitable short term
dislocations. In the face of these pressures, fiscal and monetary discipline faltered, policy
reform was halted and on more than one occasion, the country defaulted on its
international debt, bringing external capital flows to a halt
7.    The Government elected in 1991 indicated by word and deed its full commitment
to restoring macroeconomic adjustment, liberalizing the domestic market and the
monetary and trade systems, privatizing the parastatals and giving autonomy to the
remaining public utilities, reforming and reducing the civil service, and improving the
legal and institutional framework for private enterprises. The international community
responded quickly with (i) balance of payments support, (ii)debt rescheduling; (iii)
projects and programs supporting reform, and (iv) technical assistance. The two IDA
financed PIRCs and the ESAC were an important part of that response.
8.    Under the two PIRCs and the ESAC, the Government's intentions were
formalized into a concrete, time-bound plan of specific actions designed to restore
economic growth, while protecting vulnerable groups in the society and improving vital
social services. The achievement and sustaining of macroeconomic stability and the
evidence of the adequacy of external financing have been important general conditions of
all three operations. The latter ensures that all external partners: the Bank, IMF (through
its Rights Accumulation Program) and bilateral donors (including those involved in
rescheduling debt) support the Government's program and are sharing the financial



- 26 -
Appendix A
Page 3 of 12
burden fairly. The keystone of the PIRC programs was the privatization of parastatal
companies. But important actions such as civil service reform, measures to promote
private sector development (improvement of business-related legislation and the
investment approval process and the functioning of the capital market), arrangements to
deal with public utilities retained in public ownership, and ensuring a social safety net,
were important elements of the program.
9.    The emphasis of ESAC was somewhat different. Although it continued to depend
on maintenance of macroeconomic stability, the adequacy of the external financing
package, and continued progress on structural adjustment, it included efforts to generate
supply response through removal of bottlenecks to exports and agricultural expansion,
including development of a market for state land? and basic policy changes removing
structural obstacles to delivery of vital social services.
Implementation and Impact of the Government's Program
10.   The Government's program, as incorporated into the adjustment operations, was
complex, especially compared to of its limited institutional capacity. The implementation
of the program supported by the three Bank operations, which was to cover the period
19921995, was complicated by droughts, which sharply reduced crop production and
required emergency expenditures of fiscal revenue and foreign exchange to import maize,
and by a continued decline in copper production., followed by a precipitous drop in the
second half of 1995.
11.  In retrospect, the program appears to have been overly ambitious and beyond the
implementation capacity of the Government. Progress has been slow where institution
building or the development of new mechanisms for institutional reform were required.
This is particularly true of the privatization process and actions such as passage of land
laws and business-related legislation, the latter requiring actions by third parties (i.e. the
legislature rather than the executive). It also appears that some of the actions required
were either not central to the achievement of objectives of the program and/ or could have
been accomplished later.
12.   Drafting and passage of amendments some business-related legislation proved to
be more time consuming than anticipated and the final actions were shifted from PIRC I
to PIRC II. Measures which would permit release of the third tranche of PIRC II have not
yet been completed: this includes a performance contract for ZESCO (which will be
signed soon) and ZAMTEL (still in draft); and passage of the Small Scale Enterprise Act.
Amendment of the land laws under ESAC proved impossible within the time frame of
that operation and the condition was waived, although some partial reforms were passed.



- 27 -
Appendix A
Page 4 of 12
13.   Even with these adjustments, release of the third tranche of PIRC I was delayed
half a year and release of the third tranche of PIRC II will be at least two years later than
originally scheduled.
Disbursement Experience
Operation         PIRC I        PIRC II         ESAC
Board Date         6/92          5/93            2/94
Schedule*      original actual   original actual original actual
Second Tranche  12/92   3/93    11/93  10/95 8/94   11/94
Third Tranche    6/93   12/93    5/94    6/96**
*;Schedule as per Board document; **current schedule
14.   As a result of the adverse developments in agriculture and mining, inadequacies in
the formulation of the adjustment program, (discussed in para. 18 below) delays and
slippages in its execution, and problems in the implementation of the macroeconomic
program, growth targets established in the Policy Framework Papers and in the
President's Reports to the World Bank s Executive Directors have not been achieved.
GDP growth has been positive in only one year since 1991 (1993, a year when agriculture
was recovering from drought). Per capita income has continued to decline. Initial findings
of the ongoing Poverty Assessment indicate that there has been a severe adverse impact
on the urban poor. Poverty may well have increased over the last four years, due to
removal of producer and consumer subsidies. Infant mortality has risen from 108 in 1990
to 113 in 1994; adult illiteracy from 25% to 33%.
15.   Nevertheless, there are some bright spots. Some new cash crops have developed --
soya, cotton, tobacco, horticulturals, floriculture -- although marketing and credit remain
obstacles to continued expansion. Market liberalization has encouraged a shift from
maize to more drought resistant crops. Nontraditional (non metal) exports have been
increasing by 1520%, per year and exceeded US $ 175 million in 1995.
16.   Despite numerous challenges over the past four years -- drought, fiscal pressures,
unpopularity and hardships caused by many adjustment measures, and failure of the
economy to revive -- the Government has so far remained firm in its commitment to
reform. Execution of the Government's program has been uneven, although, taken as a
whole, moderately successful. There has been an almost complete transformation to a
market economy. All price controls and subsidies have been eliminated. The exchange
rate has been unified and is market determined. Importers have virtually unrestricted
access to foreign exchange The credit market and interest rates are not controlled but are



- 28 -
Appendix A
Page 5 of 12
managed through issue of T-bills. After a slow start, privatization has been a significant
success as the number of enterprises privatized accelerated in 1995. Safety net provisions,
especially drought relief, have been fairly successful. Progress has been made toward
macroeconomic stability, although it was late in coming. The inflation rate was 200% as
late as the first half of 1993, and has only come down because of the fiscal discipline
imposed through the adoption of a cash budget. Sustaining macroeconomic stability has
proved difficult, and the country continued to experience inflationary episodes. Civil
service reform and government restructuring have not been successful. Measures
designed to promote private sector development present a mixed picture. Finally, the poor
performance of ZCCM continues to be a major obstacle to stabilization and economic
growth.
Strategic Issues
17.   When the Bank's response to the Government's new commitment to stabilization
and reform was formulated, there was a long agenda of actions that had to be taken. The
program, as conceived, tried to accomplish as many of these actions in the shortest
possible time. As a result the program for PIRC I and, to a lesser extent, PIRC II, was
complex and. too demanding of government technical and managerial resources. Some of
the key measures were delayed, while others of lower priority were included in PIRC I
By the time ESAC was prepared, this lesson was learned and fewer actions were included
in the program.
18.  In retrospect, more immediate priority should have been given to (1) the need for
macroeconomic stabilization to permit private sector investment and growth; (2) the need
to abolish of ZIMCO sooner to end resistance to privatization; (3) the need to develop a
workable strategy and compensation package for civil service reform; and, (4) the
urgency of rehabilitation and privatization of ZIMCO. On the other hand, streamlining
the Investment Center; amending or enacting various business-related legislation, issuing
guidelines for operation of the capital market; and developing a regulatory agency for
public utilities, included in PIRC I, could have been done later in the adjustment process
Similarly, dealing with the problems of the DBZ, Lima Bank and Eximbank,
establishment of a stock exchange, regulations concerning contractual savings
institutions, assessment of the impact of privatization, development of a plan to
strengthen the regulatory framework for public utilities; and development of a plan for
streamlining the regulatory and licensing requirements for small scale enterprises and
easing their access to credit included in PIRC II could have been postponed for a year or
so. In fact, given the delays in implementation, it might have been more realistic to
stretch out the program into three PIRCs, supporting implementation over 1992-96.



- 29 -
Appendix A
Page 6 of 12
Process Issues
Program Formulation
19.   The Government elected in 1991 had an good understanding of the issues facing
the country and the measures it needed to take. The Bank's program of adjustment
operations was prepared in close consultation with Government, fully reflected the
Government's objectives and was helpful in translating them into a plan of action. There
was close consultation with the IMF. Bilateral donors, who were to play a key role in
providing external assistance, were consulted and kept informed.
20.   During the preparation of PIRC I efforts were also made to keep the private
sector, and informed about the content of the program. For PIRC II, the process was
formalized by having a Project Launch Workshop involving a larger number of people.
Project Implementation
21.   During the early stages of implementation it became clear that some key
government officials had not read the documents and were not aware of the content of the
program. This required continuing "educational" activity on the part of Bank staff during
supervision. All three operations were closely supervised by the Bank. Supervision
reports were detailed, covering the program point by point. Where implementation was
lagging or problems seemed to be arising, concrete recommendations were made for their
resolution. Extensive aide memoires were left with Government, including matrixes
outlining status of actions taken and further measures required. The donor community
was briefed by supervision missions and task managers visiting Zambia, as well as at
Consultative Groups Meetings.
22.   Government monitoring of the program was generally good, especially after
initiation in mid- 1993, of a weekly Friday Group, chaired by the Minister of Finance.
However, the group seems to have given most of its attention to macroeconomic issues.
23.   Where progress of the program was not satisfactory, tranche releases were delayed
and when timing no longer seemed realistic, actions were shifted until later in the
program.



- 30 -
Appendix A
Page 7 of 12
Progress in Key Areas of Adjustment
Privatization of Parastatal Enterprises
24.   The most encouraging development has been the progress of privatization. Once
ZPA established an adequate operating framework, with international technical
assistance, staffing and executive leadership problems were resolved, and the political
decision was made to dissolve ZIMCO and thus end a major source of resistance,
privatization accelerated. Since ZIMCO continued to interfere in the management of
otherwise well-functioning companies and was lax in preventing asset stripping of
companies scheduled for privatization, it would probably have been better to eliminate
ZIMCO at the outset and transfer its shareholdings to the Directorate of State Enterprise
in the Ministry of Finance.
25.   The number of firms to be privatized has been increased as decisions were made
to privatize autonomous operating units separately. As of February 1996, 113 of 208
firms and productive units had been privatized.. This does not include 106 shops. The
number of individual firms privatized was about 83. The liquidation of Zambia Airways
and the end of its drain on the budget has been a major achievement. New methods of
privatization are being used, especially management buyouts. It now appears that the
privatization process can be completed in two to three more years.
26.   Measures have been taken to give remaining public utilities more autonomy on
key business decisions, including prices and rates, within the context of understandings
on performance with the Government, although the performance contracts for have not
yet been signed (delaying the release of the third tranche of PIRC Il).
27.   Although the review of privatization experience was carried out before a sufficient
number oof firms had been privatized and therefore could not draw meaningful
conclusions, anecdotal evidence indicates that the objectives of privatization -- increased
efficiency and better products -- are being achieved. For example, the private companies
Aero Zambia and. Zambia Express have filled the gap left by liquidation of Zambia
Airways, private minibus transport has successfully replaced the municipal bus company,
privatization of beer and cement companies has resulted in increased supply and better
customer service. ZPA feels that the amount of retrenchment directly associated with
privatization has been minimal, perhaps 100 to 150 workers. Most of the retrenchment
was pre-privatization, and resulted from liberalization and the curtailment of subsidies.
No privatized company has yet shut down, although it would be unrealistic to assume this
record could continue.



- 31 -
Appendix A
Page 8 of 12
28.   Privatization of ZCCM was not a central feature of the program: this turns out, in
retrospect, to have been a strategic error. The unanticipated sharp decline of the
company's copper production, its deteriorating financial performance and its declining
contribution to government revenues have been major constraints on growth of the
economy and impediments to macroeconomic stability.
Civil Service Reform and Government Restructuring
29.   Civil service reform has not been successful. Initial progress was made by
eliminating 10,000 "ghost workers" and non civil service "classified daily workers" in
1992. Further progress has been stymied because the lack of affordable severance
package and the shortage of budgetary funds. In the meantime, the Government continued
to hire recent graduates of teaching, medical and other programs, as required by law.
Statistics on civil service employment are not yet reliable, but are being improved.
Although it is not possible to be definitive, it is likely that the government payroll is
larger than it was in 1991. So far, an equitable, affordable severance package has not been
formulated. The Government has recently adopted a "three for one" program, allowing
the hiring of one new employee for every one that leaves through attrition. This should
result in a gradual decline in the civil service rolls.
30.   Reorganization of government ministries is underway, but there does not be a
strategic framework for the redefinition of government functions in a way appropriate to
supporting development of a market economy, while protecting the public interest.
Encouraging Private Sector Development
31.   Progress on some measures facilitating private sector development has been
encouraging. Most business-related legislation has been revised in an appropriate manner.
Anti monopoly legislation has been enacted and laws relating to banking companies,
business licensing, insurance and the stock exchange have been updated. Measures
strengthening regulation and supervision of banks and nonbank lending institutions were
implemented and guidelines for capital market transactions and operations of stock
exchange was issued.
32.   Attempts have been made to encourage exports. Improvements have been made in
the duty drawback system for exporters. However, tariff reform is incomplete and
because of continued numerous exemptions, loopholes (including COMESA preferences)
and administrative weaknesses, some business suffer negative protection. It appears that
either the study of the tariff system was inadequate or that framers of the tariff revisions
were not alert to its implications. Further reform of tariffs, including further reduction of



- 32 -
Appendix A
Page 9 of 12
rates, elimination of exemptions, improvement of administration and expediting of
drawbacks is essential and a good start has been made in the 1996 budget.
33.   The major problem for business has been continued macroeconomic instability.
The most damaging aspect of this has been the emergence of high and variable nominal
interest rates, often translating into very high real rates of interest, and unpredictable
movements of the effective exchange rate.
34.   Agricultural development continues to be hampered by land legislation that does
not provide secure tenure. The process for conversion of customary land into leasehold
was only defined in 1995 and is just now being implemented Transferring land under
leasehold has been hampered by outmoded legislation and slow processing. Furthermore,
a large proportion of urban settlements are not recognized by local governments and thus
denied access to urban services. Without formal titles, residents cannot obtain credit to
improve their properties. Legalization would provide a strong impetus for growth and
improve the living standards of thousand of low and middle income Zambians.
35.   The Government's program called for legislative remedy of these problems.
However, the shift from customary tenure to leasehold was not discussed with, or
approved by, the chiefs in advance. There was limited understanding of and consensus on
program. As a result, the legislation was not enacted by parliament until 1995. A waiver
was granted so that the second tranche of ESAC could be released.
Macroeconomic Stabilization
36.   Some progress has been made toward reducing macroeconomic imbalances,
especially since the adoption of the cash budget in 1993. Domestic expenditures have
fallen from 25% of GDP in 1991 to about 18% in 1995, while revenues have regained
their 1991 level of 19% of GDP, despite falling receipts from mining. The fiscal
accounts, which showed a deficit equivalent to 7% of GDP in 1991, were nearly in
balance by 1995. The inflation rate has declined from triple digits for a few years before
1992 to just under 40% since mid 1993. But this is still far too high. The Government
successfully competed its IMF Rights Accumulation Program, and is now implementing
an ESAF arrangement. However the program was off-track in the first two months of
1996.
37.   Sustaining macroeconomic stability has, however, proven difficult. There has
been a disturbing tendency for fiscal performance to go off track, especially in the early
part of the year. Although the specific reason seems to be different each year, it is clear
that there are problems with the budget making process, especially since, with low
growth of revenues and continued high civil service employment, there is no margin for
error in the budget. These problems are generally resolved later in the year by squeezing



- 33 -
Appendix A
Page 10 of 12
expenditures and/or introducing ad hoc revenue measures. Because of this, completion of
the Fund's Rights Accumulation Program required a number of waivers and resetting of
benchmarks.
38.   With liberalized credit and foreign exchange markets and the Government being
the major player in these markets, variations in Government's issue of T-bills have a
strong effect on interest rates and Government's management of foreign exchange
reserves has a major impact on exchange rates movements. Sustained macroeconomic
stability requires better management of the budget, monetary policy and foreign exchange
reserves. It also requires augmentation of revenues and rationalization of expenditures to
provide a better balance between wage and nonwage outlays, and increased expenditures
for infrastructure and its maintenance.
Provision of a Social Safety Net
39.   The Government was successful in alleviating the impact of the drought on the
poor and disadvantaged. It implemented a transitional subsidy on imported yellow maize
to cushion the price impact of tile drought. It channeled special assistance through local
groups supported by the World Food Program and NGOs to ensure that affected families
were fed and had seed for next year's planting. Further, it assisted poorer families through
a 15% subsidy on the type of maize with higher nutritional value. Although the subsidy
has since been removed, the Government used some of the resulting savings to expand
social welfare programs implemented through the Ministry of Community Development and
Social Welfare, increased funding for small-scale labor intensive public works (supported by
IDA and other donors) and other components of the Social Action Program, and converted
some of those to paid work instead of self help.
40.   In 1993 Government decided to increase access to social services removing
structural constraints. Progress has been made on decentralization of budgetary and
implementation authority to lower levels of government, devolution of activities to
community groups and NGOs, and restructuring budgets for health, education, water
supply and the safety net. The share of the national budget allocated to basic social
services was increased, with emphasis on primary education and health care and other
services of importance to the low income population, including water supply and
sanitation. Nevertheless, budgetary allocations for social sectors continue to be
inadequate. Despite some increases in their allocations relative to the total budget,
delivery of some important services continued to deteriorate as total expenditures have
shrunk in real terms.



- 34 -
Appendix A
Page 11 of 12
Rehabilitation and Privatization of ZCCM
41.   Failure to deal with problem of ZCCM early in the adjustment process has proven
to be a serious problem. ZCCM's production, which averaged 700,000 tons per year
during the early 1970s, is now down to about 250,000-260,000 tons.. Production dropped
by 30% in September 1995 and whether and how soon it can recover is problematic. The
firm's procurement practices are unsatisfactory and are a major source of financial losses.
The company is now experiencing cash losses, is in arrears to its suppliers and is not
making payments to the Treasury.
42.   The privatization of ZCCM is the only permanent solution to the problems of the
copper sector. However, the Government has not settled on a strategy for doing so.
Moreover, the future role principal minority shareholder and most likely buyers, Anglo
and a consortium of other mining companies, has yet to be worked out. Privatization of
ZCCM is inevitable and lawyers and investment bankers have been hired to plan it. In the
interim, the company clearly needs to develop an emergency rehabilitation program, but
the current management has not been able to formulate one. There is an obvious need to
strengthen top management In any event, production from the open pit mine can only last
about four more years. The Konkola Deep project, which would fill the gap. needs to be
put on the fast track.
Sustainability of the Program
43.   The sustainability of the Government's program ultimately depends on its success
in generating improving living standards. Without this, the Government will come under
increasing political pressure to abandon or slow down implementation. The situation will
be exceptionally critical over the next few months in the run up to elections. The
Government must also increase its efforts to protect the livelihood of vulnerable groups
and to spread the benefits of growth through intensified provision of human services and
critical infrastructure, especial!; in rural areas.
44.   Accelerating growth will require improved performance in macroeconomic
management, with the aim of bringing the rate of inflatdon down to single digit levels
reducing the nominal and real rates of interest, and maintaining the real exchange rate at
levels that promote growth of the tradables sector. The key to this will be further
improving fiscal performance through enhanced revenues and rationalized expenditures.
45.   ZCCM's poor performance is a major impediment to growth. An immediate,
determined effort is required to rehabilitate existing operations, to put privatization on the



- 35 -
Appendix A
Page 12 of 12
fast track and to settle the future of Konkola North so that development work can begin
quickly.
46.   Adequate external financing must be insured. This will require demonstrated
continued government commitment to the reform process and sustained stabilization. The
benchmarks of the IMF ESAF program must be met. concerns of bilateral donors about
"governance" issues, unless dispelled, could result in a decreased availability of aid
flows. Bilateral donors are concerned that corruption and asset stripping have reached
levels where they jeopardize macroeconomic stability. They also feel that the exceptional
priority given Zambia in their aid budgets can only be justified if democratic traditions
continue to be observed. Recent and ongoing developments have cast some doubt on this.
[n the long run, attainment of sustained positive growth and increasing well-being of the
populace depends on the-character and quality of governance.
47.   Finally, the privatization process is irreversible. By the end of 1990, 75% of the
privatization (other than ZIMCO) will have been accomplished. Even if a decision were
made in principle to reverse privatization, external financial support would end and
resource constraints would prevent the decision from being implemented. Failure to go
ahead with the privatization of ZIMCO would almost certainly result in the demise of the
company.
llSHI
David G. Greene, Consultant, The World Bank
March 16, 1996



- 36 -
Appendix B
Page 1 of 6
COMPLETION REPORT FOR PIRC I, PIRC II AND ESAC I
REPORT PREPARED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF ZAMBIA
I. INTRODUCTION.
1.    Upon the advent of multiparty democracy in Zambia, the MMD Government was
elected to office in October, 1991. At that time, Zambia's relationships with external
creditors and the international donor community were at an all-time low as a result of
external debt payments arrears and abandonment of the economic reform program by the
preceding government. Upon the restoration of Zambia's payments to creditors and
adoption of. the Rights Accumulation Program in 1992, these relationships ..have been
considerably strengthened, including those with the international private investment
community. The latter was in large measure helped by the two PIRC's provided by IDA.
As a result, Zambia could regain the confidence of the rest of the world as a responsible
partner in development cooperation.
2.    An encouraging climate for foreign private investment was also created which led
to an increased level of foreign investment. The latter was also helped by the
privatization program supported by the two PIRC'S. overall, the two BOP Support
operations. provided by IDA supported the execution of the Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) which aimed at improving Zambia's economic growth prospects by supporting
private sector initiatives on the basis of free market principles, reducing poverty and
reversing the declining performance of our social sectors delivery system.
3.    Good - but uneven - progress has been made in attaining the Government's
objectives. The privatization and parastatal reform program which was facilitated by the
First and Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credits (PIRC I and II) is having
real and tangible results. The closure of ZIMCO and the determined efforts of the
Zambian Privatization Agency (ZPA) have resulted in the privatization of over 100
companies.
4.    Extensive policy reforms were also introduced to bring about improved
macroeconomic stability and more effective delivery of social services. These objectives
were pursued through further macroeconomic policy measures and reforms in the social
sectors, notably in education, health, water and sanitation. These reforms were carried
out with the support of the first Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC I)
obtained from IDA in June 1994.
5.    Public debate of the ERP had brought out criticism with respect to the inequitable
sharing of the benefits of adjustment among various population groups. A review by
Government of the implementation of the ERP did reveal uneven progress between
economic and social adjustment. This was largely due to capacity constraints and



- 37 -
Appendix B
Page 2 of 6
management weaknesses in the social sectors, but also to difficulties in the Civil Service.
The Government then decided that more tangible progress with social improvement
needed to be made.
6.    Thus, new approaches to the resolution of problems in the social sector were
introduced, including expanding Government A support for NGO programs, for social
service delivery. The y Government initiated an Action Plan for Social Sector
Rehabilitation and Maintenance which provided the basis for ESAC. The latter - -was
co-financed by bilateral donors.
7.    The Economic Recovery Program involved a wide range of structural adjustment
measures. Overall, progress on structural adjustment was substantial, but progress with
poverty reduction was hampered by low economic growth rates, the latter caused in part
by successive droughts.
TII. ACCOMPLISHMENTS
8.    The Government made it clear that the private sector was to serve as the principle
source of economic growth in Zambia. Thus, a program of action was developed to
remove obstacles to private sector expansion and to provide incentives for investment and
exports. The Government acted in the following areas:
- liberalization of prices and transactions:
When the Government took office, the Zambian economy suffered under a host of
regulated prices and transactions controls. Virtually all such restrictions were lifted.
Controls on exports, imports, maize meal, fertilizer prices and exchange rates were lifted.
Controls on transactions in fertilizer and foreign exchange were also eliminated. All
interest rates were freed. Financial markets were decontrolled.
- the creation of an enabling environment for investment:
The liberalization measures mentioned above were supplemented in 1992 by other
measures giving additional assurances and facilities to private investors, both domestic
and foreign. The Investment Law was passed, providing substantial incentives to
investors. An Investment Center was created providing investors with a one-stop service
facility.
Parliament approved in June 1992 the Privatization Act, after a lengthy debate
throughout Zambia which produced a political consensus for determined action in the
privatization field. A beginning was made in the privatization process with restitution of
several nationalized enterprises to their original rightful owners. Since then, over 100
enterprises of the 150 parastatal companies have been privatized.



- 38 -
Appendix B
Page 3 of 6
The Government introduced a new Investment Act by April 1993 which eliminated
unnecessary tax advantages to investors, while providing for 100 percent repatriation of
after-tax profits. The new Act also encouraged the adoption of labor-intensive production
methods.
- the Strengthening of Financial Markets:
The liberalization of financial markets and of the markets for foreign exchange lead to the
development of an InterBank Market. In addition, in October 1992 the first Bureau de
Change started operations. Since then, some 30 Bureaus have become operational.
The establishment of the Privatization Fund under PIRC I took place in 1994.
Administered by the Ministry of Finance, it permits the direct participation by Zambian
citizens in the privatization process. The establishment in 1995 of a Stock Exchange
provides opportunities for the flotation of shares.
- Other Measures.
In addition to strong fiscal and monetary measures designed to aid in the battle against
inflation, a number of other measures were implemented
* first, with the introduction of Treasury Bill tenders, control on interest rates in
Zambia was removed. Interest rates are now positive in real terms which
encourages savings and free real resources for investment.
- second, the abandonment of the administrative allocation of OGL foreign exchange
by the Bank of Zambia meant that all foreign exchange transactions, including those
taking place under BOP Support operations, could be handled by the market, at a
market-determined rate. This was made possible under the leadership of IDA, as
the modalities of donor support were adapted to this new environment with the help
of ajoint IDA/Bilateral Donors mission.
- third, as regards parastatal reform, several reform measures affecting Zambia's
parastatal sector were taken. In addition to freeing parastatal managers in their
pricing decisions from Government involvement, parastatals were instructed that
they needed to operate on market principles. As a result, electricity and water
charges have been increased periodically, as part of a policy to make these utilities
financially more independent. All parastatals were cut off from Government
subsidies.
- fourth, closure of ZIMCO and Zarnbia Airways.
Since 1992, the ZIMCO Group of Companies was progressively dissolved. This was
started by the disbandment of INDECO Limited, National Hotels Development
Corporation Limited (NHDC) and National Import and Export Corporation Limited



- 39 -
Appendix B
Page 4 of 6
(NIEC) in 1992/1993. ZIMCO itself was liquidated in 1995. In December, 1994
Zambia Airways was closed.
fifth. privatization of ZCCM
Early on, the Government committed itself to the privatization of Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM). The privatization process commenced with a
Strategy Study in the first quarter of 1993. The complex nature of ZCCM and its
importance to the Zambian economy required that the method of privatization be
carefully defined and that the Government sanctioned the stages for its divestiture.
Legal and financial advisers are currently preparing an Action Plan for Privatization
of ZCCM which should be submitted to Government in the course of 1996.
sixth, establishment of Public Utilities Regulatory System The establishment of
autonomous regulatory bodies for the utilities such as ZESCO and ZAMTEL should
be completed in the course of 1996. These bodies will supervise the implementation
of automatic tariff adjustment mechanisms which came into being in 1993 and
ensure that efficiency considerations will play their rightful role and help to keep
utilities, costs down.
- seventh. Public Service Reform.
Achieving a more effective, better paid and leaner Public Service became a cardinal
objective of Government policy. For this purpose, a Public Service Reform Program
(PSRP) was elaborated. This program is currently being implemented, but the
retrenchment aspect is suffering delays as a result of limited fiscal resources.
- eighth. Tax Reform.
Measures to improve the tax system and enhance tax collections were also taken.
Following the establishment of an autonomous Zambia Revenue Authority in 1994,
tax revenue was raised by several points of GDP.
III. EVALUATION OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Institutional and Legislative Adjustment
9.    Progress under ERP supported by the two PIRC's and ESAC has been substantial
on many fronts, but slippages did emerge, largely on account of underestimation of the
time required to forge a political consensus for the difficult adjustment measures to be put
in place and for institution building to succeed. As to the latter, it should not be forgotten
that the institutional framework in the country had been geared towards a statedominated
command economy which took long to correct.



- 40 -
Appendix B
Page 5 of 6
10.   Despite these delays, however, economic activity has begun to respond favorably
in a number of areas. There have been tangible improvements in transport and
communications, the provision of financial services, real estate activity, wholesale and
retail trade and non-traditional exports. Activity in the informal sector has also been
vigorous. The positive developments in these areas, however, were more than offset by
the poor performance of mining, manufacturing, construction, tourism and agriculture.
Thus, economic growth remained elusive in the 1992-1995 period as output in the
economy fell by 3 percent. Since population has been growing by over 3 percent per
annum over the period, per capita income continued its longtime decline and fell by some
15 percent between 1991 and 1995. Formal sector employment also declined.
Successive droughts contributed to this disappointing result.
11.   Government has begun to have success with improving social conditions in
Zambia which had declined substantially over the past twenty years. Among the
constraints impeding effective delivery of social services were excessive centralization, ,'
organizational problems, limited implementation capacity in Government ministries,
shortage of qualified personnel reflecting high attrition rates, poor regional distribution of
staff (80 percent of physicians work in 4 provinces along the line of rail), and shortage of
financial resources.
12.   Over the past few years, Government has taken steps to reverse the declining
trend in social sector service delivery. These steps include decentralization of service
delivery, particularly de-concentration of service delivery in health and ,,education (under
the Health Reform Program and the Education Sector Investment Program), of safety net
measures to local groups, mostly NGOs, and re-structuring the water and sanitation
sector.- In addition, the 1993 Budget called for an increase in expenditures on social
services from 27 percent of expenditures in 1992 to 33 percent in 1993. This higher share
has been maintained until today.
Macroeconomic Stabilization
13.   Government has also been successful - albeit moderately in its efforts to stabilize
the economy. Despite the fact that the budget deficit was reduced from some 10 percent
of GDP to a surplus in 1996, money supply growth continued at high rates in the period
up to 1993 and inflation remained at high levels. For the period beyond 1993,
Government's priority became to bring meaningful stability to the Zambian economy.
The starting point was to control the execution of the Government Budget by introducing
fiscal discipline through implementation of the Cash Budget. This translated into reduced
rates of inflation.



- 41 -
Appendix B
Page 6 of 6
Mobilization of Donor Support.
14    Government was greatly helped by IDA's provision of its BOP Support which
stimulated the granting of significant financial support from the international community
since 1992. This refers to both the volume of debt relief obtained and the volume of
donor assistance which was provided. While over time there were shifts between the
various categories of external assistance that was provided, in particular from balance-of-
payments' support to project assistance, overall Zambia obtained the external resources
which had been requested from its donors and creditors. This was facilitated by IDA's
leading role in the economic dialogue with Government, supplemented by the positive
role of IDA in the coordination of external assistance through its leadership of the
Consultative Group for Zambia.
CONCLUSION.
15.   With the help of IDA under the PIRC's and ESAC, the Government was able to
implement an ambitious agenda to transform the economy into one where private
initiative and market forces is playing the guiding role in the development of the
economy. At the same time, the Government was able to reduce inflation and restore
macro-economic balance, permitting the laying of foundations for a resumption of
investment and of economic and employment growth.
16.   The Government was also helped by the positive contributions made by IDA to
Zambia through its financial and technical assistance support. The Bank's Country
Economic Memorandums (CEM) provided new insights into the constraints facing the
economy of Zambia an-d the Poverty Assessment of 1994 also contributed towards the
design of programs to accelerate poverty reduction. The conclusions of these reports
helped to focus policy reforms and program adaptations on the key constraints to
economic growth and poverty reduction.
15th April, 1996






A



I






d I-. I       _1 :t.x j U
-, C.    1       -,           N    a1 I l'  1r
IN I  . V 11 



