Docuet of 
Tlhe W:'-rld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R4ot No. P-6082-ZA
REpORT AND RECOIENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTENTIONAL DEVELOPMT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AOWUNT BQ1UIVALET TO US$100 IL:LION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAHBIA
FOR A
SECOND PRIVIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM CREDIT
MAY 27, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:P- 6082-ZA    Type: (PR)
Title:  SECOND PRIVATIZATION AND INDUS'
Author: BROADFIELD, ROBIN
Ext.:37505 Room:J11099 Dept.:AF6IE
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in th performanc of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1 = 1520 (April 1993)
FISCAL YEAR
Government                 January to December
Zimco Parastatals          April to March
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOZ          Bank of Zambia
CG           Consultative Group for Zambia
DBZ          Development Bank of Zambia
DDSR         Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EC           European Community
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit (2214-ZA)
ESW          Economic Sector Work
FIAS         Foreign Investment Advisory Services (World Bank Group)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDA          International Development Association
IFC          Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INDENI       Oil refinery
MMD          Movement for Multiparty Democracy
NCZ          Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia
NGO          Non-governmental organization
ODA          Overseas Development Authority (UK)
OGL          Open General License
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PIRC I       Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjustment Credit (2405-ZA)
PIRC TA      Privatization and Industrial Reform Technical Assistance Credit (2406-ZA)
PIRC II      Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
PPM          Program to Prevent Malnutrition
PTA          Preferential Trade Area
PTC          Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
PTF          Privatization Trust Fund
SADC         Southern African Development Community
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SEC          Securities and Exchange Commission
SIDO         Small Industries Develop-ient Organization
SSE          Small Scale Enterprise
TAZAMA       Tanzania Zambia Pipeline Company
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        US Agency for International Development
VIS          Village Industries Service
ZA           Zambia Airways
ZACCI        Zambia Confederation of Industries and Chambers of Commerce
ZCCM         Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO        Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
ZIC          Zambia Investment Centre
ZIMCO        Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZIMOIL       Oil Import parastatal
ZPA          Zambia Privatization Agency
ZRL          Zambia Railways



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
SECOND PRIVATIZATION AND NDUSTRIAL REFORM CREDIT
Table of Contets
Par No.
CREDIT SiilY ....................................  i-i
I.     THE ECONOMYANDTHEBANK'SSTRATEGY .......... 1
A. Background andReent Developmens  .. .   ..................  1
B. Reent Macro-Econmic performance and Structurd  Reform ...... 3
C. SummaryAssessment  ......... ..... 7
IL   THE SECOND PRIVATIZATION AND NDUSTRIAL
RERORM CREDT  ............*......................  8
A. MaoecononmicStoPgabl..onProg.am........8
B. PrivatzatonProgranm                     ............................... 9
C. Safety Net ..      .....                .. .        ..           . 11
D. Private Secor Development                      . I.. .I. .         12
E. FinancWSectorand CapitalMarketReformm ................. 14
F. ParastaaiReform        ...        .....       .......................... 15
G. Disbursement and Procurement ......         .......... ........ 17
H. Program MItanagementad Monitorg ...            .................. 18
MonitorableAcidons: By Effeciveas  .................. 19
MonitorableActions: BySecondTrawcheRelease  ........... 21
MonitorableActions: Byhird,TrancheRelease ............ 21
I. Justificationand Ris               ...                ....... . 22
(cone'd)
This report b based on the fndings of an appraisal misson which vited Zambia in
April 1993. The appraisd mission comprisd Vitor Agius, Principal Fiancial Speciist,
(AF6IE) (rask ManMer)  David A. Cook (Chief, AR6ME; Eric S. Daffen, Principa
Energylndustry Spedalist (AF6I;  Judith Prs, Conultan  Chdrtin Pomie, Consultant;
John Todd, Principa Economist (AP6CO); Dougs A. Webb, Pdrncip  Counsel (LEGE);
W. Pti Ofosu-Amaah, Chief Coune  (LE F; and Adiana Arriagada, Su r Staff
(AF6IE. Secretri support wa pvied by Noemi Dacany and Adana Ariagada (AF6E.
Mr. Stephen Dening (AF6DR) i the maaging Departmem Dirctr.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcpients ony in the perforance
of their offiial duties. Its contents may not othewis be discloed without World Bank authoiation.



ZAMDJA
SECOND PRIVATIZATION AND IDUSTRIAL RORM CRWDT
Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEXES
Annex I:    Second Letter of Development Policy
Annex II:   P1RC II Policy Matrix
Annex III:   Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Balance of Payments
External Financing Requirements
Social Indicators of Development
Annex -V:   Supplementary Data
Annex V:    Statement of Bank Group Operations
Annex VI:   Firms Scheduled for Privatization
Annex VII:  Status of Companies Scheduled for Privaization in Second Round
Annx VHII: Privatization Trust Fund



ZAMBIA
SECOND PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower/Beneficiary:     Republic of Zambia
Executing Agencies:       Minstry of Finac
Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry
Miiry of Legal Affairs
ZIMCO
ZPA
Amount:                   SDR 72.1 million (US$100 million equivalent), on
standard IDA tems, with 40 years mauity.
escription:               The proposed Credit wil provide bance of payments
support for the nex stages of Zambias parastal reform
and privatzaton program, which is a key componet of
Zambia's structual adjustment program. In particular,
i aims to: develop financial arrangements facilitating
increased participation by local investors in the
owneship of newly privatized companies, deepen the
absortive capacity of the domestic capital market, help
Government develop a comprehensive, affordable and
socially acceptable program for those made redundant
through corporate restructuring, and develop the capacity
of key insiuons to handle the rapidly expanding
privatizton workload.
Benefits and Risks:       Zambia's ongoing adjustment efforts and the reforms
supported by the proposed Credit are vit  for
stabilization and growth: enco      private sector
development, coniuing the privatization program,
refrming what remains - temporarily - of the
parastatal sector, strengthening and deepening the
financial sector, while ensuring that a comprehensive
program  is implent o    mitigate the impact of
redundancies. Benefits are exected to be
corepondingly significant, although they will not be
immediate.
The operation faces political, extenal and
implemeaion risks. The political risk arises from the
pressure on the Government, that will grow as more
people are affected by restuctng, to slow down or
reverse some of the reorms.   Nevertheless, the



-"-
Govemment  has  demonstrated  coictoion  and
detemination  in reforming the economy.   The
comprehensive program of redundancy assistoce and
compensation is also designd to mitigat this risk. The
extea  risk relates to Zambias crlppling debt burden;
the Bank is playing a key role in mobiizng the doaor
support required to support Zambia's refom. Lastly,
the Government has tken steps to improve its
iplemeion capaoty, and is reciving ongoing
support under the PIRC Teodnical Asistan  Credit
Disbursement:             Ihe Credit would be disbursed in tre  anches. The
first tanche of US$40 million equivalent would be
available upon effecdveness. Ihe second and third
tranches of US$30 million equaent each would be
available six to nine months and twelve to fifteen months
(respecively) after effectiveness upon satisfctory
filfiWment of specified conditions. Diur   would
follow sandard Bank prOcedu  for Impots.
Appraisal Report:         This is  combie  Memorandum of the President and
Staff Appraisal Report.



NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMET ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENATION OF THE REDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND PtIATUATION AMD INDUSRIAL REFORM CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAbIA
1.    I submit the folowing report      recom     ton on a proposed Interional
Development Association (IDA) Credit of SDR 72.1 million (US$100 million equivalent), on
standard IDA tms with 40 yers matnity, to the Republic of Zambia in support of its ongoing
ptogram  of privatzaton, parastatal refom, priae  sector developme   and industi
retutrn. 
2.    Tne proposed sector adjustment credit fousses on strengthening the capacity of
Govrment to implement the next stages of its complex and challenging program of privazation
and parastal refm; this constitutes a vit component of Zamba's oveal structul adjustment
progm. This program, initiated in early 1991, has been pursued with vigor and dminaon
by G'ovment, despite the difficules created over the pas year or so by the devastat  drought
tha hit Zambia in 1992. IDA has played an importan part in suporting this adjustn  effot,
cludig thrugh the Eoomic Recovery Credit (2214-ZA of March 1991) and the Prvation
and Industrial Reform Credit (240-ZA of June 1992). The last Economic Memorandum on
zambia o(eport No. 50-ZA) was distributed to the Executive Directors In November 1986; a
new Economic Memorandum is being finalized. A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) 1992-94 was
discussed by the Executive Directors on March 17, 1992.
L THE ECONOMY AND THE BANK'S STRATEGY
A. Bckground and Reot Development
3.    Zambia's economy continues t ufer ftom severe distortions t  will reqire an ongoing
structul adjustment effrt over an extended period. The export base remais heavily dependent
on copper. Also, an earlier policy of nationalization has left an economy dominted by
parastatls. Falling world prices of copper, deterioration in the terms of trade, and failure to
diversify the economy led to a steep economic decline. Per capita GDP is now a third of its 1978
level. Attempts to support conumption through borrowing failed to contribute to economic
growth and ceated an exceptionally severe debt problem - total exr    debt at end-1991
amouned to US$7.3 billion, over 300% of GDP. Zambia's ability to redre  is economic
problems is now coutingent on signkificant inteational assistance, particuady quick-disbursing
assistae and debt relief. Because of its massive debt burden, including some US$1.2 billion
in arreas to the IMF, Zambia faces stark choices. It must eifther sustain tough economic refbrms
and rely on generus donor support to redress the exisfting imbalances or deft on debt sevie
oblgaions, forsake most donor assistance, and conXtue the path of economic decline of the past
twenty years.



-2 -
Earlier reform efforts in Zambia
4.    Recent ers at economic reform in Zambia fail imto teo distin  phases. le first
began in 1985 when President Kuda's Goverament adopted a comprehensive structu  refom
program with Bank and IM support. However, political commitment to reform proved to be
weak, and the program was abandoned in 1987 when President Kaunda reversed many policy
reforms undertken previously; foreign exchange shortages led Government to stop most extr
debt service, including to the Bank. Consequendy, the Bank suspended disbursements, and
baance of payments support from the donor community was withdrawn. By early 1991, arreas
of more than US$300 million to the Bank Group had accumwlated.
5.    A second phase of ewonomic reforms began in lae 1988 when dWogue bee
Government gnd the BankM   resumed. Steady progress was made on reitoducing refms,
and in March 1991, Bank arrears were cleared with the help of a bridging loan from the Bank
of England, peamituing the first tranche of an Economic Reco very Credit (JERC) to be disbursed
immediately. Zambia also began a rigbs accmulation program which was approved by the
Executive Board of the IMP in April 1991. However, Implemetation of the program was
shortlived. In the ms-up to the multi-party elections, adherence to the reforms began to slacken.
Infomal prce controls were introduced and public expenditure sted geting out of control.
President Kaunda announced tO donors dt  the Government did not intend to implement the
ndrstandings reached on maize prices. Donor support evaporated, and Government defiauted
on its paymets to the Bank, resulting in the suspension of disbursements in September 1991, and
a new accumnuiaion of areas.
Current economie reform program
6.    In the October 1991 elections, the opposition private sector-oriented MMD party was
elected to office with a strog mandate for economic reform. This change in Government
ushered in a third and more robust phase of economic reforms. President Chiuba appointed
pragmatic businessmen and famers to the Cabinet and the new Government quicldy adopted a
comprehensive program of stabilization and sucural reform; this included steps to reduce the
fiscal deficit, and slow monetary epansion; the elimination of distortions and controls on key
prices, including the exchge rate, interest rates, public utility tariffs and prices of agricultura
inputs and output; and reduction of the size of the civil service. Government also srted on an
ambitious program of privatization and parastatal reform.
7.    These changes led to a resumption of subsuta   externa support from bilateral donors.
Bank arrears were again cleared in January 1992, and the suspension on diss lifted.
A fresh adjustment credit - the Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjusment Credit (PIRC 1) -
- was made tOD Zambia in June 1992. In July 1992, the MP approved a retctured rigbs
accumuaton program for Zambia. Bilateral donors provided subsiantial balance of payments
support and debt relief through the Paris Club.
Impact of the drought
8.    The Government's impressive progress on its economic reform program has been
achieved even though the country had to face the worst drought of theenury in 1992.
Two-thirds of the vital maize crop was lost. The Govenment was successil in securing donor
support to meet the country' maize requirement and averted a potea  diter resultng from



-3 -
los of the pdncip  food crop. Grant assistance finaced the Import of 700,000 tons of maize
and anote 245,000 tons wero imported on comrciaI terms, but financed by donors e.-post.
Food shotes w    avertd thaogh adoption of targeted free food and food for work programs.
ConttiIg of miz purhases began In early 1992 and supplies have arrived in a timely manner
since May 1992. The direct balance of payments impact of the drought is estimated at US$290
million in 1992, and a furthe US$70 million in 1993. lTis includes the cost of Increased maize
Imports, of redced non-traditonal exports (mcluding electricity), and of electricity imports.
9.   'Me major instrumt for combafttng the worst sffeck; of drought on vllnerable groups
was the Prgam to Prevent Mnutrtion (kPM). Ihis program, covering the crop year 199Z/93,
included: (O) fuding food-for-work programs such as digging irrigation ditches, building feeder
roads and preari  lWa for the new cropping season; (ii) provision of free food for tose
unable to work; and (iii) ransporting maize to remote, nomally self-sufficient rur  areas.
ihese pgrms distued more than 100,0a) tons of maize and other food (about an eighth of
total food aid) and beefitted 1.7 million people (a fifh of the population). Overall, Zanbia's
perfomnce in coping with the drought has been the best in the Region. This year the rains have
been muclh bettwe and thr are good prospects that the size of the maize crop, which will be
havested in the second half of the year, will be above normal.
B.    Rect Macrq-Fmaomic Performance and Strutural Reforms
10.   kj       n o*==    Despite the heavy demands on Government time and
attetion created by the drought, the Goverment has made excellent progress in its first year and
a half in offie In Implementing structural reforms, liberalizing the economy, and launching a
horouy prpared   compreheve privsizaon program. Although the worst effects of the
drought on Zambia's populace were averted, it did have significant negative effects on income
gowth, fiscal and monetay operations, and domestic inflation. Agriculural production in 1992
drpped 39.3% (i constant 1985 prices); although this was offset by a 10% rise in mining,
overal GDP a  eto  cost feU by 2.8%.jI  The pdmary fiscal defiit (on a cash basis,
aecluding grant and interest) for 1992 is esmated at about K19 billion, or 3% of GDP
(compared to the original PFP target of KS billion). The higher-than-expected deficit was due
in large pat to the cost of the drought, which were well above expectations.2/ However, non-
droughtpd were also above target In several areas due to high public sector wage
inaes  and large loss  by Zambia Airways. Monetary expansion was rapid becase of these
al sippages and because the mecanism for ste n excess copper eaings (amounting to
1/ The lat  revision of the national accounts shifted the base year to 1985, raised the weight
of mining and redced dat of agiculture in GDP. Using the old weights, the decline in total
GDP would be 9.6%.
ai The higher costs of the drought refected slow reayment of credit by the mills because of
cash flow problem occaoned by the need to purchase a somewhat larger than expected domestic
cp at saply rig  prces.



4 -
3% of GDP) wm not effectivej./ It is estimated that broad money grew by 99% for the year.
Since the Govenment was taking aggressive action on the exchange rate, reduction of maize
subsidies, and price liberalization, inflation accelerated to 190% for 1192.
11.   The major development in the S£@a?f Ran=  in 1992 was the increased Import
levels due to drought. bmports, c.i.f., rose from US$952 million in 1992 to US$1268 million:
US$269 million of the US$316 million increase (85%) was due to maize imports. On the expot
side, copper sales in 1992 were marginaly lower ta in 1991, US$852 million, compared with
US$8M5 million., despite an increase in e%port tonnage fom 375,000 to 40' )mO tons.4/ On
the brighter side, exports of other products rose by 13%, but from a very &.all base. Ovral,
exports were off marginaly (1.7%) from their 1991 level. With higher import levels, the current
acount ueficit, excluding interest and official transfers, increased from US$90 milion in 1991
to about US$450 million (about US$290 million of this is attrbutable to drought). In July 1992,
the Pads Club agreed to a comprehensive debt rescheduling which resulted in debt relief of
US$450 million in 1992.
12.   During the fourth quarter of '992, the Govement took stong measures to restore
control over the macroeconomic situation. In its 1993 budget, Govment sated that its gW
was to bring the amual rate of inflation down to 10% by the foth quarter of 1993. While early
inflation resuts in 1993 suggest tat this target will not be met, Government has stted on a
serious and concerted effort to keep spending within actual revenues collected and to mop up
excess liquidity in the financial system by increasing bank reserve requirements, raising the bank
rate and introdueng a 5%  charge on bank rediscouning opeaions.  S     ening the
Govment's fiscal positioai in the fourth quarter of 1992, Government received a mandaory
dividend of KI.1 billion from ZIMC(- in December, capital and military expendibures were cut
by K1.5 billion, and over-funding of same ministries clawed back. As a result, the fourth quater
saw a deceleration of monetary expansion and strengthening of the fiscal position. The end-1992
performance benchmark were met (except for a minor shortfil in net interational reserves) and,
in Aprfl 1993, the 1    Board approved the accumulation of rights for the fourth quarter 1992.
Nevertheless, controlling Inflation will remain the key challenge for the immediate fiture.
strctural donns
13.   Govemment has made much progress in efctg structural reform and market
iberaization in the 18 montbs it has been in office. Jn the area of Ugrcultral rde, fertize
subsidies have been eliminated and maize prices increased substantially. Fertilizer prices have
been decontolled and fertlizer can now be imported and traded freely. Consumer prices for
maize meal have been deregulated, but the Government, as the major supplier of maize to the
mills during the drought, has continued to establish the into-mll price. Nevertheless, no
budgetary provision has been made for maie subsidies for the 1993 crop and all maize markets
]/ In order to contain monetary growth, the program provided that the local currency counterpart
of any excess copper earnings resulting from prices in excess of $0.90 per pound were to be
sterilized.
4/ Copper prices have rie to as much as $1.12 per pound, they have since declined below
$1.00, but averaged $1.03 per pound for 1992, compared to $1.06 for 1991 and $0.93 projected
for the 1992 Fund program.



- -
will be decontrolled by mid-1993; the price of mahe meal to the consmer has risen by 700%
from November 1991.
14.   The        m       was liberalized by Introducing bureaux de change In Sepember
4992, widening the export retnion market, and incresing the coverage of OGL and convering
it to a negatve list. Since the OGL market uses the burex ra, all exchage rates are now
unified and market-dermined.  Receipts from non-traditional exports and otier current
transactionsmay be sold at the buroux de change or at the reteon market at maret-determned
rats. The Bank of Zambia purchases all foreig exchange of Zambia Consolidated Copper
Mines (ZCCM) and provides foreign exchange to ZCCM and government at market rates of
exchange. There is now virtually unrestricted access to foreigl exchapge for current transactions,
inluding travel (up to US$2,000). All goods (with the exception of jewelry, precious metals and
weapons) and all services (with the excpton of extemra debt payments) are eligile for bureaux
fiancing. teest      were freed in mid-September, 1992 when the ceiing on commrcal
bank lending rates and the floor on deposit rates were removed. Interest rates are driven by
prices in the T-bill market and are now positive in real terms.
15.   The  civil undo was reduced by 10% in 1992 by a freeoe on new hires and
retrenchment of 12,000  govement employees. The budgetary cost of retrenhment was
K6 billion, or about 1% of GDP. In March 1993, Government announced a comprehensive
Public Service Reform Programme which will restucture ministries, introduce a performance
management system, decentalize more fumctions to local government, and introduce an explicit
and trasparent system of personnel evaluation. Further reductions in civil service staffing levels
&e expected as a result of imple ion of this Programme.
16.   Progress on the critical component of the structural reform program, viz.
and  arast  reform. is ahead of schedule. Government's publicly stated objectves are
ambitious. Specifically it plans to: () restucture ZIMCO (the overall investment holding
company) and abolish its sub-holding companies; (ii) privatize or liquidae all commercially-
oriented parastatals (Including the public udlities), about 130 companies over the nett five to
seven years (these are listed in Annex VI); (ii) reform ZCCM with a view to its prvtzation;
and (iv) reform the public utilities, and establish aropriaregulatory mechanisms, to enhance
efficiency in the provision of public services and as a preparatory measre toward privatization.
Preparation for the privadzation program has been thorough and comprehensive, and the program
of sales is well underway. In August 1992, the Privaizatlon Act became law and the Zambia
Privatization Agency (ZPA) was subsequently established. The ZPA operates independenty, but
under Government supervision, and is responsible for the sale of companies (including prior
preparation, valuation, advertising, valuing offers and negotiations). A first tranche of 19
parastatals (compared to the target of at least ten agreed as a condition of first tranche relea  of
PIRC 1) was offered for sale in late 1992. More bids th  expected were received; the ZPA has
completed negodations for the sale of nine of these companies, and only final legal clearmce Is
required before their sale is finalized. A second tanche of 29 companies, including several large
ones, has now been advertzed for sale; initial investor interest (both foreign and domestic) in
bidding for these companies appears strong. Preparation of future tranches is well advanced.
Government is keen to sustin a rapid pace of ch.ge and has solicited broad technical and
finacial donor support to help it attain its objectives. ZIMCO is being streamlined and its sub-
holding companies are no longer operational. A review of the options for privatzing ZCCM,
and for opening up the copper mining sector to private investment, is about to start.



-6-
17.  'Me p       Lojwgtam  involves a reiew of the management, staffing, policis
ana finances of the public utilities to make them efficien and financially autonomous. It envisages
the establishment of an autonomous agency to regu    the utilites and review pricing policies
on the bash of pre-greed mceive-based formulao that incorporae  ffclency measures and
performance targets. Progress to-date ncludes the compledon of business plans for the smaller
utilities and the start of efficiency studies and strategy plans for three large ones, Zambia
Railways (ZRL), Zambia Electricity Supply (ZESCO), and Post and Teleo   ctin  ).
18.   Goverament is also undertaking several reforms to spur the demeag    Lo.fihLe.riaft
ector. Investment licensing procedures are being simplified, and an Inveet Center is in
operation. Ihe Import nd export licensing system now operates quite efficiently through the
comercial bas; the exchange rate policy and lower tarifffs  rther enbance oompeies.
Goverent is updadng the laws that are importa  for investm   and busness and tiht in thir
present form are outdated and restrictive; these include the Companies Act, the Stock Exchan
Act, the Securities Act, the Bank of Zambia Act and the Financial bItutions AcL In addition,
the Government's investment program places priority on imroving the essential physica
infrastructure.
19.   Bank Group Assistance: Bank assistace to Zambia wil be directed at ahieving
macroeconomic stability, increasing productivity in agriculture, promoting privat sector
development and developing the country's human resources and pbysical in',astrcuce  The
Bank will continue to play a leading role in helping Government design and implement the
adjustment progam, place the economy on a sustainable growth path, and mobilizw  Anidal
resources in support of the program. Zambis economy has the capacity to grow at over S
percent per year over the next decade, provided that the policy eironmt continues to improve
and donor and creditor assistance remains generous.
20.   Bank assistance over the next four years will comprise a blend of adjustt and
investment operations, and economic and sector work. Balance of payments assistance will
continue to be a major element of the Bank's assistance to Zambia Ihe process of economic
reform is likely to take several years, and Zambia's need for balance of payments support wil
remain high because of the very high debt service obligations even after rescheduding. Tbhefore,
the Bank program includes one adjusent operation per year, with alnounts gradually decreasing
from US$210 million in FY91 to US$100 million in FY96. Each operation will combine
macroeconomic reforms with an emphasis on a particular sector. Sectoral investmets in
agriculture, population, health, petroleum rehabilitation, infastrucr rhabiliation and financial
and legal management will complement adjustment lending. In addtidon, a debt and debt vice
reduction opetion is planned for FY94. This lending program will build on the knowledg
accumulated In past years dtrough ESW. Future ESW will cover agricuture, mining, public
expenditure, education sector, public sector management, environment, population, health and
nutrition, gender issues and natural resources. Particular attention wil be given to a sectra
approach in lending, inidally in agriculture and health, with major efforts to improve aid
coordination with bitr donors through regular Consultative Group meetings and Intnive
informal contacts.
21.   The Government has reqested that the upcoming adjustment operations concentrate on
helping strengthen public sector implemention capacity.  This opeton will focus on
privatization and industrial reform. Goverment commitment and the xesve preparations have
resulted in this component of the structural reforms proceedig ahead of schedule. Rowerer, to



- 7 -
sustain the pace of change, Government has to cope witi a number of challenges. These include
the need to: (i) demonstrate to the Zambian public that the program is succeeding in its broader
objectives of enhancing efficiency and atr g increased private investment by ensuring that the
privatization program does not lead to concentaon of corporate ownwrship in a few hands and
that Government promotes the development of financial arrangements to facilitate increased local
invetor participation in newly privatzed companies; (ii) develop a comprehensive, affordable
and socially acceptable progra to taclde the substantial numbers of redundancies likeh -, arise
from corporate restructuring; (iii) strengthen the capacity of key institutions to handle the rapidly
expanding privatization worlcoad; and (iv) promote the development of a strong and diversffied
financial sector and capital market and of a dynamic private sector. Dealing witi these issues
is the subject of the proposed PIRC II operation.
22.   Overall, progress on implementing rapid policy change has been impressive, although the
benefits will not be perceptible to the general population for some time.  Sustning the
adjustment program will depend in large part on adhering to sound policies until the desired
supply response materializes and in part on demonstating progress in dealing with the backlog
of problems in tht social sectors. The next adjustment operation proposed Social Sector and
Economic Policy Reform Credit) scheduled for Board approval in FY94, would continue the
program of improved macroeconomic managemxnt and help idendfy and eliminate key constraints
to effective delivery of essential social services, particularly health care, education and water.
C.      ummawry Assessment
23.   The proposed Credit comes at a critical Juncture. After years of decline, Zambia now
has a Government strongly committed to economic reform. However, public expecations are
high. It is necessary for the Government to begin to show positive results to sustain the
momentum for change. The ultimate objective is to raise living standards, particularly for the
poor. Given Zambia's domestic resource constais, continued donor support Is critical if this
objective is to be achieved. Substal foreign assistance, including debt relief, will continue to
be required to provide essential inputs and those consumer goods that cannot be produced
competitively domestically, develop the nation's human resources and strengthen the country's
basic infastucture.
24.   Progress on implementing this strategy will be measured against the following criteria:
(i Government's ability to implement macroeconomic policies (monetary, fiscal and exchange
rate policies) that can accomplish and sustain financial stabilization, measured against targets for
inflation, the fiscal deficit and credit expansion; (ii) more effective delivery of essential public
3ervices; (iii) Goveznment's success in public sector reform, particularly progress on divesting
&telf of parastatals snd on reforming public utilities; and (iv) future growth and diversification
of the economy aw-ay from dependence on copper for export earnings and Goverment revenues.
The policy framewrork should encourage private sector investment and continued rehabilitation
and development of the social and economic infrastructure.
25.   There are three possible risks which may hamper the succssfd implen   of the
adjusmient program. First, success wil depend on the sustained comnitment of the authorities
to program implementation. The present Government has to date demonstrad conviction and
determnation to reform the economy. However, successful implementation of the adjustment
program requires sacrifices on the part of all Zambians, and erosion of popular support for the
program could impede its implementation. It is critical to develop safety net provisions to ensure



-8-
that t     i an eqoitable disbuton of the costs and ains of both refom  and opportuities
genrated. Second, Zambia Is saddled with a crippling debt-service burden. Unless substan
debt relief and highly concessional external asswiance coniue to be extended to Zambia, there
will be hndequa  financial resources for the adjustment program and the minimal investnt
resources needed to rhbilitate capital stock. The Bank Is playing a key role in mobilizing the
donor support needed to sustain Zambia's adjustment effort. Third, Implementation capacity in
the Govement and in the country has been constained by inadequate incentives and structural
weaknmses. However, acdons have been inidated to address this, includng the restrucring of
the ci sevice and the remaining parstals, with approprie suppo  from D1A. If the
Govenment wer to abandon key elements of the reform program, the Bank's lndin stra
would be to reduce the support almost to zero, since the ecomy could not support investment
projcts in such a siuaion.
EL    THE SECOND PRIMATIZATION AND INDREFORtM CREDIT
26.   The Government of Zambia has commited itself to a formidable overall reform program
that seeks to reverse twenty years of decline. The priovzaton and industi reform program
is a crital component of the overall reform process. This program entails changing most of the
legWiaon dth underlies commercial and industrial activity, updating and se ning the
country's Institutional framework and physical infastructre and at the same time providig a
afety net for the poorest elements in society. The potentia for the long-term success of the
program is there. However, both Government and donors recognize that the program requires
a long-term, dedicated commitment, and needs sustained support and guidance. The proposed
Credit (for an amount of US$100 million equivalent) provides continuity of IDA assistance; its
specific objectives are to bolster implementation of inidatives underway, and to advance furter
h structural reforms. The Credit focuses in particular on: (I) additional measures - such as
capital market development and establimt of financial arrangements to facilite inased
local picipation in privatized companies - that are needed to sustain the momentum of the
privtation  program and pdvate sector development; (O) advancing the program of reform of
p        ffithat are to remain, for the time being, under Government ownership (the public
utilities); and (ii) helping Government develop a comprehensive compensation and counselling
plan for  e  laid off as a result of corporate retructring, tkng into account the acue
monetary siuaion and condition of public finances.
A.    Maaoecnomic Stabliztion Program
27.   The success of the overall economic, and thus also of the privatizaton and industrial,
morm, stae  depends on adherence to the macroecnomic stabilization program agreed wit,
and monitored by, the IMP. In this regard, the public utlities (in pardcula, PTC, ZRL, ZESCO
and ZIMOIL) have generated concern recenly, as their prices and tariffs have not been adjusted
rtpidly enough to cover their costs; the rapid successive devaluation of the kwacha have led to
a serious deteioration in the financial situation of these companies, whose costs are largely in
foeig currencieb. Continuation of losses by the public udlities would require significant indirect
subsidies from the Governmet which could compromise the macroeconomic stabilizadon
progm. Automatic price and tariff adjustment mecim  are to be implemented for these
public utilities, to allow them to return to fiancial viability (see also paras. 52-S5). Monitorable



9 -
conditions proposed are as follows: Automadi prie a4justment mechas for d1 paNik
utiities are to be adopted as a conditlon of effectiveness; and Governent wil provde eviee
of conimed salfactoy adherence to the jsca and montwa sTety agreed with the UF. and
eidence that thefour mentonedpublic utiles are t'ipIemenfing appriepricing policies as
second and WM trweAs release conditons.
28.   Under the Privizatdon and Industrial Reform Adjusment Credit, various m es have
already been taken with respect to external tariff reform; In particular, an In-depth study for
formulating a strategy and timetable for fiuther external tariff reforms has been completed, nd
the Government has reduced tariffs In the 50% band to not more th  40%. Regarding exte&
w0k, a timetableforfurhe reform should be sbmited to IDA by effecieess.
B.    Prlvatizaton Progam
29.   The reform of the parastatal sector is the centerpiece of the Govermen's strategy to
restore efficiency and growth in the directly productive sectors of the economy. Goverment
considers privatzation essential to enhance competition and raise productivity, as well as to
reduce the demands of the sector on the meager financa and manageria resources of
Government. Zambia's industrial sector is dominated by parastatals. The Zmbia Industri and
Mining Corporsion (ZIMCO), the stat holding company, manages the Governmen's ownehip
In some 130 parastatals, ranging in size from ZCCM to small bakeries and dry ceae. For a
long time the parastatal sector was insulated from competition and grauly became a drain on
the economy.
30. The parastatal sector in Zambia was the result, mainly, of the post-independence policy
of nationalization whereby Government took over a majority int    in exist  (usually
profiable) enterprises. There were few major greenlield investments. Most enterpridses there
were not out of scale with the domestic market and had an intrinsic viabililty. In many Insances
the former shareholders (including foreign ones) retained minority inte     (often wih
preemptive rights on the shares ceded to Government and/or future rghts issues) and mainaned
representadon on the boards of the respective companies. Parastata access to credit for finanig
new investments was restricted by the unwillingness of the largely pivately-owned banking
system to extd large amounts of term credit Therefore, parastatals could only finance new
investmnts out of cash flow, or by ransfers from other parastatals with opera8t surplus, or
(to a limited extent) from government and donor resources. The net result was that many
parastatals did not reinvest sufficiently to maintain capital stock  I.e. there wa  atuad
disinvestment) and became inefficient; nevertheless this also meant tat: (i) the p
sougt to retain positive cach flows; and (ii) most were not heavly idebted (the ma exceptions
being the utDities, the fer.izer company NCZ and Zambia Airways). Most retain the goodwil
and poten   to become productive with Infusions of better management and capital. The keen
interest shown by minority shareholders in exercising their preemptive rights is an indcator of
the potential for the privadzatlon program in Zambia to meet its objectives. However, most
parastatals, and particularly those carrying significant foreign currency loans, such as the utilites,
NCZ and Zambia Airways, have fbund their financial situation deteriorating in the past year as
the kwacha has devalued rapidly and interest rates have risen sharply.
31.   The privatization program at present has scheduled the sale of all parat     except
ZCCM, the public utilities and a few non-commercial non-ZIMCO compaies. In additon,



- 10-
having already decided to rely on private investment to develop new copper reserves, the
Government now plans to sell ZCCM as well as the public utilides after completion of studies
to review the appropriat privatzaton options. ZCCM  itself represents about 50% of the
ZIMCO Group urnover. The public utilities (PYTC, ZESCO, Zaminba Railways, ZLMOIL,
INDENI Refinery and TAZAMA Pipeline) account for a futher 10% of ZIMCO tover.
Essentilly all other companies (i.e. about 130 companies) listed by Zinco, including ZCCM's
non-copper companies, and the non-Zimco parastatals are already for sale. There will be no
restrictions on ownership, other than as needed to prevent monopolies. It is expected that during
the fiveto-seven year privatization program about 10 companies will be sold through public
flotations in Zambia, but a number of other companies may be sold with the requirement to float
a portion of the shares locally. Most other divesttures are expected to be direct sales to domestic
and foreign purchasers, in some cases to exisng management. Companies detemined to be non-
viable will be liquidated. Others will be broken up into units for sale separately so as to enhance
competition.
32.   The Government has made extensive and thorough preparations for carrying out the
prvatization program in an efficient and transparent manner. The Privaion Act of August
1992 provides the legal basis for the program; it also established the Zambia Privatization
Agency as the body responsible for planning and executing the program. The Board and virually
all senior management of the ZPA, and most of its technical staff, have been appointed and
intensive efforts are going on to staff the Agency to its full complement. Even before the ZPA
had been established, its forerunner, the technical committee for privaization, had already
accomplished a lot of work in formulating the basic methodologies and policies for privatization
and in selecting, valuing and otherwise preparin the first blocks of companies to be privatzed.
While ZIMCO retains responsibility for safeguarding the Government's interests unti a company
is privatzed (an important role since the program stetches over more than five years) and for
ensuring that parastatas abide by overall Government policy (including that of limiting investment
to essential repair/rehabilitation only), the ZPA is responsible for all aspects relating to the sale
of companies. The whole process stresses transparency; the prior reviews of firms to be
privaized, and method of sale, focus on the need to enhance competition, diversify ownership
and increase local investor paricipation including through _mnagement and staff buyouts. This
work has been stongly supported by several donors. The German Goverment is financing
reviews of 15 companies to detmne likely value and preferred method of sale. USAID and
ODA are providing direct assistance to the privazadon agency, and UNDP is also finding
related work. Danish-financed consultants have completed a review of the rest of the ZIMCO
and ZCCM portfolio to identify the issues to be addressed and the approximate timing for
offering the companies. Further assistance has been provided by the EC, Norway and Japan.
33.   Progress in preparing companies for sale is impressive. About 80 bids were received for
the 19 companies offered for sale in the first round, and negotiations with lead    bidders are at
an advanced stage; in fact, only final legal clearance is required before the sale of nine of these
companies can be finalized. A fiurher 29 companies (most of which have minorit shareholders
with preemptve right) are being offered for sale in the second round; is includes several large
and profitable companies (e.g. breweries, cement companies) in which there is considerable
interest on the part of both local and foreign investors. The pace at which the ZPA expects to
progress with these privadzations varies on a case-by-case basis, and is discussed in detail in its
"Tranche 2 Companies Status Report", which is appended as Annex VI. Conwnuedprogress
In pdvaUzon forms part of the monitorable conditions under the proposed PIRC II operation;
specificaly,forktdranche release: () the sale, orliquian, shouldbe confletedof4at last



- 11 -
15 enterpises; (U) all w n Governm 's power should have been done to sell a further 20
enerprises; and Pit) a total of at keast 60 enterprises should have been offeredjfor sale. In
additon, as a frther cowndtmfr th*dd tche release, an hbc Assessment Swuy will be
carred osw. This will emine the impact and effectiveness of the privatization program from
the viewpoint of al affected parties, including management and employees, dhareholders,
financial instutions, the private sector and the public at large.
34.    Experience to date wih the privatizadon program has revealed certain critical issues that
need to be addressed quicldy if the momentum of the program is to be stained. A key factor
in maiting public support for the program will be the development of a mechanism to
facilitate broad pardcipation of Zambian investors in the ownership of the companies being
prvatized. Govenment wans to ensure that privatization woud not lead to a concentration of
corporate ownership in the hands of a few, perhaps foreign, investors. The Privatization Act
makes provision for a P(Tvatiztion ITrust und (), which is now being established. The role
of the PTP is to hold in tus blocks of shares in selected compan!es being privatized, for later
sale through public flotation to Zambian individual and insuional investors, as the absorptive
capcity of the domestic capital market allows. It is emvisaged that the Pi wil only invest in
those companies that are profitable (or have substanti  potential to become so) and have a
domint pdvate investor that has responsibility for management of the firm. lhe Trustees of
the PTP, who will be independent of the Govermnment, consist of. the Permanent Secretauy of
the Ministry of Finance, and one representative each from the Law Association of Zambia, the
Zambia Confederation of Industries and Chambers of Commerce (ZACCI), the Zambia Institte
of Certified Account, and the Zambia Bankers Association. It is to be managed by an
independent private fiacial instiution under a peformance-based contract. There will be
apropriate ading procedures for the PTF to ensre that its opations are carried out in a
man    conistent with its objectives. Establishment of the PTF, which is a conditon of
ffecdeess, and the commencement of Its operatons, which Is a second tanche release
condtion, as well as development of the capital market hat is neceary for the PTF to meet its
objectives, are a major focus of the proposed PIRC II credit. Annex VIII outlines the role,
structure and operational arrangements proposed for the PTF.
35.    Under the Privatzaion Act, the proceeds from the sale of the companies will accrue to
a Reveme gouunder the control of the Minister of Finance. The Act permits these receipts
to be used for a variety of purposes, including expendiures incurred in connection with the
privatization process, making redundancy payments, makin  invesms in compaies being
prvated and general expenditure of Government. The proceeds from the first round of
company sales, wnich may total US$1015 mil1ion, should start to be paid into the  Revenue
Account shortly. Given th potentially heavy demands to use the sales proceeds, but the equally
pressing concen to restrain monetary growth, a Policy Statement has been issued setting out the
basic policies and safeguards to be established for the use of Revene Account funds during 1993
and 1994.
C.    Safety Net
36.   Having an efectve safety net in place to provide protection to vulnerable groups remains
a critical  tor for the success of the maon-ecnomic and structural reform program. Ihis is
particularly true at present, becuse the impact of the drought will continue until mid-1993.
Govement, with strong donor and NGO support, has put in place a strengthened safety noet and



- 12 -
social action plan to support those most affected by the drought and removal of subsidies, and
also to provide assistance to those made redundant by the reform progranL Key eements of this
plan are: () half-price distribution of maize to the households most seriously affed by the
drought; (ii) addition  income support for the absolute poor; (i1l) a labor-intensive Public
Works Program; (iv) larger budget allocations for the social sectors; and (v) assistan  to
retenched employees in the form of cash compensation, counselling and training. Overal, this
program has worked well, but some components have been implemented more forcefuly than
others. -.We drought relief elements, which received priority attention, fully met the objectives.
The safety net program will need to be continued, and grear attention will be paid to
rerenchment assistce under the PIRC I operation.
37.   The etent of corporate restructing related to privatization Is likely to resut In
significant staff layoffs. Preliminay estimates suggest that total staff reducdons could amount
to close to 30,00O, equivalent to about 7.5% of the foral sector labor force, and 21% of the
parastat&J workforce. Of tis number, it is esdmated that naua employment wastage may
account for some 8,000, leang 21,000-22,000 to be retrenched. Tbe final redundancy numbers
will be determined in part through the negotations with prospectiv pursers of companies.
Dealing with such redundmcies, through developing comprehensive plans for compensation
schemes and creating alteative employment opportunies, is critical to maintain public support
for the reform program. The ZPA has included plans for counselling and trang redundant
staff, and this program is now operational. However it becme apparent durng imp
of PIRC I ihat more thought needs to go into the design of redundancy assistmce. Paymen  of
cash compensaon at the levels agreed with unions and managements, amounting in many cases
to five years' salary or more, would not be feasible in the present siuoation of severe fiscal
austerity. In addition, many of those who will become redundant cuently live in job-rlated
housing which they would have to vacate on employment teminato
38.   To deal with these issues Goverment has sought IDA and Swedish blateral assi
to help it design a comprehnsive and affordable program of redundancy  o ion and
assistace, Including using various assets under its control in part compension for those made
redundant The principal assets being considered are: (i) shares in comanies being prvaized
(though a unit trust argement to ensure faimess and equit); (i) urban and agriculu  land,
of which Goverment controls a sizeable area of non-communal land, much of it already cleared
and accessible; and (dil) houses, furniture, vehicles and other equpment currently in use by those
who may become redundant. The program will also cover sardiztn of        on
determination, policies for dealing with redundany issues in enterprise sales negotiations,
valuation of assets that might be used in compensation, and dealing with pension fiud liabilities.
Work on the design of this program is underway, but may take some time to complete since the
issues being covered are complex. Nevertheless, it is being pursued as a matter of urgency. It
is proposed that Gowv7zen would complete Uts reviewe and adopt a cowpvMhensire rawdaac
cas   e and compeasadon program by second tandse release of the proposed PIRC II. As
noted below, additional steps are needed to help those receiving cash or other aset  in
compensation to put them to good use in creating new business activities.
D.    Private Sector Development
39.   The Government has made it clear that the pdvate sector is to be the gine of eonomic
growth and that the role of the Government is that of a facilitator. The overall s 



- 13-
sector develonmen cornprises the following elements: (i) encouragemeat to all entreprers,
domestic and foreign, to participate freely in all economic activities, with the assurance that
government will not pre-empt or inhibit business opportunities; (i) promotion of competition and
broad-based ownership of enterprises to stimula  increased efficiency and production;
(iii) modernization of laws th  are important for business;  and (iv) simplification and
Streamlining of investment procedures, and promotion of foreign investment. A number of
measures have already been taken by the Government under PIRC I. For example, simplificaton
of external tariff was continued in the 1993 budget, with nrther reduction of the higher tariff
bands to not more than 40%. Business taxation has also been reformed to broaden the tax base,
lower the company tax rate and speed up colection.
40.   Upon assuming office, President Chiluba's Government recognized one of its most
important priorities to be that of updating all the legislation relang to business and commerce,
and which in the previous regime of statism had become inimical to the growth of the pivate
sector. The updated legislation required would cover, inter alia: (x) the licensing and prudent
supervision by the Bank of Zambia of financial institions; (ii) the licening and regulation by
a oDmpetent body of a stock exchange and all entities enged in a secrities business; (iii) the
removal of unnecessary constrains on businesses; (lv) modernized an simplified legisation
regarding the operation of companies; and (v) the control of restrictive trade practces and
limitation of monopoly powers.
41.   Despite its limited resources of trained legal staff, Government has made good progress
on legal refonr. The revised livestment Act was enacted in 1991, and the insurance laws were
amended in 1992 to remove the monopoly of the Zambia State Insurance Company (ZSIC). In
addition, preparation of drafts of the revised legislation mentioned above is being finalized.
While Government was keen to meet its original timetable (of having these laws passed by
Parliament in its June/July 1993 session), and this is also a condition for the release of the ird
tranche of PIRC I, the Association has recommended that the Government take the time needed
to enable the Cabinet Legislation Committee to review these drafts to make sure th the proposed
revisions are comprehensive, and consistent among the various laws (most of which overlap and
are interactive). Submission of acceptable dAJ&r to die Cabism Legilktin Committe Is now
a condiion of effecdveness of the proposed PIRC U operation (and a similar modification to the
corresponding condition for third tranche release of PIRC I is proposed), while enadmest or
amendment of dts leglslawon is requiredfor release of the second *anche of the proposed PIRC
I Credit.
42.   In the past the growth of the small-scale ent=pre  secor was sted by the
parastatal sector that preempted most business opporunmes. Today the major containts include
excessive regulaions affecting entrepreneurs wanting to opee in the foma sector and weak
institutions for supporting the sector. Lack of access to credit - including lack of collateral -
constitutes the most important handicap. The privatization program provides an opporunity to
unbundle businesses and spur entre ership. Government is undertaking a reiew of the
regulatory conStrai   on SSEs and of the efficiency of the Small Industries Development
Organization (SIDO) and the Village Industries Service (VIS). There is also a need to review
the procedures for obtaning the necessary authorizations for small scale mining, since these are
cumbesome and time-consumg, particularly for small-scale miners. Dealing with these
regulaory contraints and strengthening the support institutions wil be a particular focus of the
PIRC It operation, with ti t,ae   release requlsng the adopon of adbio piw base on
reiew  of dsral licensing and the reguaWtoryframeorl,for &SaR.



- 14 -
43.   Government put early emphasis on promoting domestic and tbreign investmen to restart
economic growth. With a liberal foreign exchange regime, fill remittance of dWidenis and a
pro-business attitude, Zambia has one of the most attractive and open clim  in the region for
attracting foreign capital. The 1991 Investment Act provides generous incentives and a fIl range
of guarantees against interference and expropriation, together with the right to idternational
arbitration. The Zambia Investment Centre (ZIC) has been established and Is operational. This
has redued the delays and red tape faced by new fims  that qualify under the Investme  Act
To ensure ZIC focuses on its role as a promotional body and that the Investment Act is
functioning approprately in stimulating foreigp and domestic investmet*, Government has
decided to review its operations; completion of ts review (for which PIAS provided assistce),
and adopion of a time-bonacion plan for Implementing way recommendaions, are a condWon
for release of the thir tranche of the proposed PIRC II.
44.   The ngdl status of land is an issue of importance for the developmet of the privat
sector and for the design of the redundancy assistance program In Zambia, the law, as It
currenty stands, does not permit freehold possession of land. Unimproved land is rgarded as
having virtually no value, and hence such land is of little use as collatera. The Issue of land
tenure is complex, and reform will be a lengthy process. Although leasehold Is expected to
remain the mode of land tenure in Zambia, the Government recognizes that some aspects of land
ownership and land registration and transfer need to be addressed. Government intends to
complete an in-depth review to identify necessary pragmatic measures and to develop an
appropriate action plan to improve utilization of, and develop a properly functioning market for,
commercial land. Adoption of suich a plan will be a conditon of drd tadche release.
E.    lFnancial Sector and Capital Market Reform
45.   Zambia has a relatively well developed banking ste  with thirteen commercial bans
and a number of leasing companies and special financial institutions. Even so the system has
litde depth; lending is short-term and trade-related. Heavy Government borrowing crowded out
the private sector. Inflation and, until recently, negative real interest rates put an implicit tax on
liquid assets and discouraged saving. The success of the stabilization program is critical for
deeper financial markets as are the recent moves by the Bank of Zambia (BOZ) to move from
its reliance on liquidity and reserve requirements, to instruments of indirect monetary control.
46.   It was also important to review the legal framework for banking and cagial market
devdm  ent. Legislation is being updated to strengthen the authority of the BOZ in banking
supervision and prudential regulation of financial institutions, as discussed in paras. 40-41 above.
While there is no evidence of pervasive financial distress in the banking system, there was a need
for new reporting requirements and capital adequacy and loan exposure guidelin and to brn
non-bank financial institutions under BOZ's supervisory authority. Legiation to incorporate
modern banking practices which are critical to the privaization process and to private sector
development in general is also being prepared, with assistance from the IMP. It Is emvisaged that
the new legislation would allow for the establishment of venture capital fimds, mutual funds,
merchant banks and other institutions designed to mobilize and provide risk capital. T'e BOZ has
already prepared drafts of the new banlng laws; they are expected to be forwarded soon to the
Cabinet Legislation Committee, which Is a condiionfor effectiveness, while endmat of thes
laws Is a conditonfor second trnche release of the proposed credit.



- 15-
47.   With the exception of a few recendy established insurance companies, all of the
UMaXl svngS lib             are still state-owned and retain de facto monopolies in their
respective areas. Lack of competition, inflation, and Inadequate guidelines and supervision has
led the sector to concmntrate mainly on illiquid real estate assets; it ik also seriousy und.rfimded.
Completion of a critical review of the sector to be foloW  by submssion to IDA of plans for
&Vadang the relevant prdental controls and legisladon Is essetal and is a conditon for the
release of the second bwnche of the proposed PIRC IL A further second tranche release
condition is adopfion of acion plans based on a reviw of the fBue roles of the gje d
ctfidal io         (DBZ, Lima Bank and E4mb ) that are in general in a poor financial
condition, and of steps to be taken to foster term lending for investment finance through other
parts of the banking system.
48. IThe development of a stock exchange that is appropriate to Zambia's needs Is Important
to sustain the privatzadon program, and in particular to enable the PTF to fulfill its mandate.
New secw*es legisladion Is underpreparaton, which wi be submied to the Cabinet Legisladon
CowJmm e (condition of effecdiveness) and then to Parlamt (enaanen Is a second buche
release conditon). A Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is expected to be set up under
this legislation, with appropriate regulatory authority, and a stock echange is to be operadonal
by second tmncie release, with the necessary regulator,yfamewo* In place. The development
of the stock exchange itself requires the establishment of a facility and instiutional arrngemens
for a simple cenral dealing facility, rules and regulations for fair trading in shares, the operation
of stock-brokers and dealers including the licensing and delicensing of brokers and procedures
for registration of new issues, approval of prospectuses and conduct of public stock offers.
Consultants finaced under the PIRC TA Credit have completed the first (design) phase, and are
conmmencing the second (implementation) phase for the establishment of the SEC and the stock
exchange, under detailed terms of reference drawn up by the Govenmen, with the assistance of
the Capital Markets Department of IFC. Other donors, including UNDP, are also ected to
provide assistac for training, expatriate advisors and purchase of the required equipment and
software.
F.    Parastatal eform
49.   The parastal reform program covers two main isues, namely the transitional
arrangements for the companies to be divested, and the long-tm system for the utilities to be
retained, for the time being, in public ownership. In relation tO the former, Govemen has
trumsformed ZIMCO into an investment holding company with a Hmited mandate. ZIMCO's
former sub-holding companies (INDECO, NIEC and NHDC) ceased operations in March 1993
and are being legally wound up. The role of ZIMCO as an investment holding company wil be
phased out over about five years. In the mtime, it wil overe the management of companies
scheduled to be prvatized, until they are sold, providing a cdairmn for each subsidiary,
receiving financial reports, and ensuring dt  the companies are being prudently managed untl
they are privadzed.
50.   Government has set clear policies to be followed by statowned enterprises slated for
privatization; their management has fill auLthority concerning operations, employment and
pricing. It also has the right to borrow (but without Goverment or ZIMCO guarantees), and
to invest in accordance with the Public lvestment Ptogram; in practice this means only for
emergency rehabilitation or for quickpayback invesm . Management does not have the right



- 16-
to diversify into other lines of business. Government will provide no more subsidies to hiee
companies, and the companies are required to pay a 10% dividend to Government as a priority.
There is a minority of companies that are not viable, and these will be closed down and their
assets disposed of through liquidation.
51.   Zambia Airways (ZA) is the major loss maker among the current privatization candidates,
with these losses amounting to US$15 million equivalent in 1992. I has received technical
assistance from a British Airways subsidiary with a view to restruct    Its equipment leases and
its route network. Government has adopted, and begun to implement, an action plan for Zambia
Airways based on this assistance, redefining the principal objecdves of ZA to be an efficient
affordable domestic operational system which will increae the development of toWism and
facilitate the growth of business and trade within the PTA-SADC region. Steps taken to date
include retrenching about 600 of its staff (out of almost 2,000), selection of advisors (expected
to be appointed by July 1993) to renegotiate the leases on aircrft, and recruitment of experienced
personnel in engineering and technical operations, finance, and marketing and route planning.
A detailed document is also under preparation regarding restructring ZA's equity, with a view
to seeling future private sector participation.
52.   Certain parastatals - mainly the public udlities - are to remain in the public sector for
the time being There are two principal concerns with respect to these enterprises. The first is
that they should be free of political interference in their pricing policies and management, and
that they should neither require nor receive subsidies, whether direct or indirect. An iniial step
with respect to pricing will be the adoption of automatic price adjustment mechaism  for the
public utilities that will allow them to become financlly viable within one year, with further
steps to be taken under the proposed operation. The second is the need to establish an
appropriate autonomous regulatory system for the public utilities. An interim public utilities
secretariat is being established inside ZIMCO, with limited reulator role of overseeing the
operational efficiency and financial performance of the public utdlities, including price adjustments
outside the scope of the automatic price adjustment mechanism; a study to define more closely
the appropriate form for a long-term regulatory system is due to commence shortly.
53.   The Government is seeking to improve the efficiency of the sector further, by:
(i) institung in each eaterprise the necessary changes in their operational policies (management,
staffing, organization, etc.) to increase their efficiency and make them finacially autonomous;
and (ii) establishing a long-term regulatory framework that would include review of pricing
policies on the basis of incentive-based formulae that incotporate efficiency measures and
performance targets. Good progress has been achieved on the first phase; business plans for the
smaller utilities (ZIMOIL, TAZAMA and INDENI) have already been through their firs annual
cycle and efficiency studies and strategy plams are underway for three large ones: Zambia
Railways (ZRL), Zambia Electricity Supply (ZESCO) and Posts and Telecoications
Corporation (PTC). These companies have already started on programs for reducing costs and
improving productivity and custmer service stndards.
54.   Over the past year or so, the prices charged by ZESCO, ZRL and PTC have failed to
keep up with the level of cost increases, giving rise to significant losses, and in many cases the
deferral of necessary maintennce, and resulting in implicit subsidies when Governmen maks
the foreign loan repayments the enterprise has been unable to meet. To allow these enterprises
to reurn to viable operations, they have been given autonomy on pricing decisions and they are
expected to bring their prices, within 12 months, to a level where they covtr all costs, including



- 17-
cost of capital, and provide an acceptable return. The apdopon of auomatic prie a4ushmet
,mchanlsms to aceve tidsfor ZRL, P7C, ZESCO and Z(MOJL is a conditon of effectIveness.
Subsequently, the public utilties would also be expected to reflect progressively improved
efficiency and producdvity in their tariff structure, through agreement with the Government;
adoption Of such fmmewos* agreemen4t for PTC, ZRL and ZESCO is a th   tandche release
condton.
SS.   Recognizing that the publ.c utilities secretariat is only a transitional arangement the
Government has invited proposals fir a consultancy study to recommend appropriate regulatory
arrangements for all the public utilities to adopted for the longer term. It is expected that this
would involve establishing an autonolmous regulatory agency (or agencies), which would have
the responsibility of setting and rAonitoring, inter alia, customer service and productvity
staLdars, and overall pricing pollaes, as well as encouraging appropriate competition and privat
sector provision of specific services. Pricing policies would include incentive-based formulae
incorporating efficiency measures and performace targets for each of the main utility sectors,
and would be reflected in the framework agreement mentioned above. The establishment of
these formulae is included in the scope of proposed work. This study would also review other
problems ficed by .jtlities including the interest costs on late payments, long delays in the
setlement of due bils by Government, and tariff structures that are no longer appropriate given
the cost structures of these companies. The adoPton bY Government of specflc proposalsfor a
long ten= reguatory sysm Is a third tradwhe release condition.
G.   Disbursement and Procrment
56.   An amount of US$100 mllion equivalent is proposed for the Credit. Several donors have
indicated an interest in co-finaing the credit. Zambia's IDA allocations of US$251 million in
FY91, US$210 million in FY92 and US$192 million in FY93 (including the proposed PIRC II)
ae somewhat exceptional. These alocations follow a period of three fiscal years in which no
IDA commitmens were made. The amount in FY91 was part of the overal agreements with
donors and the IMF on exceptional funding to help clear arrears and enable multilateral fimancing
to resume. 1The FY92 amount included an additional US$100 million in emergency drought
relief. A continued high level of support is warranted in FY93 because of high debt service
paymens, declining copper receipts, and some continng costs of the 1992 drought. The future
level of financia support will depend on Zambia's performance under the econor-ic reform
program.
57.   An important obJective of this Credit would be to assist Zambia with her exal
finacing requirements during CY93 and CY94. The Credit would be disbursed through the
Bank of Zambia. A Special Account would be established in a commercial bank into which
US$20 million of the Credit proceeds would be deposited. The Credit would be somewhat front
loaded in order to help fill the CY93 financig gap. Disbursement would be in three tranches:
the first, at effectiveness, amounting to about US$40 million; the second, after about six months,
of about US$30 million; and the third would be available about twelve months after
effectiveness, i.e. mid-1994. It is estmated thatthe entire Credit would be disbursed by year-end
1994. Disbursement of the second and third tranches would be contingent upon fulfillment of
the monitorable conditions listed later in this section.



* 18.
58.   The Credit would reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange cost of general impotls,
excluding those on the usual negative list. Except for proprietary spares, which will be subject
to direct negotiation, contcs of US$1 million and above would be subject to simplified
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) aud will be fMlly documented, and as far as practical the
project will use standardized simplified ICB documents cleared by the Bank. All ICB contracts
will be subject to the Bank's ex post facto review, and all supporting documents wil be submitted
along with the disbursement documents. For contras below US$1 milliei^, the purchaser's
procuremen procedures woud be deemed sufficient. The public sector procurement procedures
have been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. Discussions with the Chamber of
Commerce confirm that the private sector normally seeks competitive bids from more than one
source; this would be acceptable also for contracts below the ICB threshold. Procedures for
pr( .  ment of commodities (especially petroleum and fertilizer) will be in accordance with
simplified ICB procedures. Staemen of expenditres woud be used for contracts valued under
US$0.5 million. Proement would be coordinated by the Bank of Zambia under arrangements
sadsfactory to IDA. The Bank of Zambia would provide quarterly progress reports on
procurement activies to IDA. Ihe Bank of Zambia would indicate on the statements of
expenditure the nature and origin of the goods, as well as the payable date. For contracts below
the ICB threshold all relevant documents will be retained by Bank of Zambia for selective
inspection by IDA supervision missions. Ihe Govemment uses pre-hipment import verification
services and all imports financed under the Credit would be inspected and items purchased under
ICB will not be subject to price veriffcation. The project account, special account and statements
of expendiure will be independenly audited, and the audit report will be submitted to IDA within
six months of the end of the fiscal year.
]L    lrogam Management and Monitoring
59.   The reform program would continue to be managed by the Economic Afairs Monitoring
Unit, which is chaired by the Minister of Finance and composed of members from the Ministry
of Finance, the National Commission for Development Plauning, the Cabinet Office, Bank of
Zambia, ZCCM, Central Statistics Office, and other Government ministries and agencies. The
management of the program would be assisted by a coordinator already appointed under the
PIRC TA project.
60. The operation would support reforms and actions across a broad range of issues
connected with privae sector development, privatizaton and parastatal reform; they are listed in
the policy matrix. At each stage the overiding conditon would be that Zambia retains
satisfacory overall performance on the mac-ewnomic programs, including compliance with
specific monetary and fiscal targets set after review and agreement with the IMF, and ensuring
that the public utilities are implementing appropriate pricing policies so that they do not require
direct or indirect subsidies from the Government. The other main specific monitrable actions
in the various areas are set out below.



- 19 -
61.   Among the actions already taken relating to the PIRC II operation, the following may be
noted as being of particular interest:
1. Pbn
(a)    Establishment of the Privatization Trust Fund, including completion of necessary
legal arrangements and appointment of Board of Trustees;
(b)    Review and updating of Privatization Timetable for 1993 and 1994; and firm
identification of list of companies that would have blocks of their shares reserved
for sale to Zambians through the Privatization Trust Fund;
(c)    Selection of consultants to carry out a strategic study of the privatizaton ogtions
for ZCCM
(d)    Adoption of a satisfactory Policy Statement for the use of privatizadon proceeds
that will accrue to the Revenue Accunt.
2. Earasl Rom
(a)    Adoption of an action plan for restucturing Zambia Ai.way.
Monitorable Actions: By Effeciveness
62.   Prior to effecdveness of the proposed PIRC II operation, evidence should have been
received by the Association that the monitorable conditions for release of the third tranche of the
PIRC I operation that are directly related to meeting the objectives of this proposed sector
adjustment operation have been substantially met. The PIRC I third tranche conditions which
have already been complied with include: (i) completion of a study on external tariffs, and
reducdon of tariffs in the 50% band to 40%; (ii) the reform of business taxation; (Iii) operation
of the Investment Centre; (iv) implementation by the Bank of Zambia of a satisfactory action
plan for strengthening its bank supervision capabilities; and (v) adoption of a plan of action for
no-ZIMCO parastatals.
63.   With the exception of two conditions - namely l(b) and 2(b) below - all the PIRC II
effectveness conditions emanate, with slightmodifications in some cases to add clarity and reflect
implementation experience to date under PIRC I, from the thi  tranche release conditions of
PIRC I. Thus, fulfilment of these effectiveness conditions for PIRC H would have the efect of
meeting the corresponding third tranche release conditions under PIRC I. The only significant
change is in regard to the legislation, as discussed in paras. 40-41 above, for which the PIRC II
effctiveness condition has been modified to require submission to the Cabinet Legislation
Committee rather than enactment. Enactment, or amendment if sufficient, will now be a second
tranche condition under the proposed PTRC II operation.



- 20 -
64. Good progress has been made in meeting the remaining relevant PIRC II effectiveness
conditions, all of which are expected to be met within one to two months, and which are as
follows:
1.     O& W111g-   Progn
(a)    Submission to IDA of a timetable for the next stage of external tariff reform
(b)   Evidence of having secured sufficient commitments to cover substantially
Zambia's e     al          for 1993.
2. Privat
(a)    Completion of all measures within Government's control to praIze 20
gw2nnies, jointly representing about 10% of e- e aggregate size (as measured by
turnover, capital employed or number of employees) of all companies to be
privatized under the first program;
(b)    All key staff recruited to ZA.
3. S&iatN
(a)   Implementation of a basic action plan to assist redundant staff,
4. Pae
(a)    Submission to Cabinet Legislation Committee of s&tiA      draft  of Ilaw
providing for: (i) licensing and prudential supervision of financial institutions by
Bank of Zambia; (ii) licensing and regulation by a competent body of a stock
exchange and all other entities engaged in a securities business; (iii) removal of
unnecessary constrain on businesses; (iv) modernized and simplified legislation
regarding the operation of companies; and (v) the control of restrictive trade
practices and limitation of monopoly powers;
(b)   Preparation of satisfactory guidelines for rwatieon of capiamtke transactions
and for operation of a stock exchange.
5. PMsital R e
(a)    Adoption of atnoatic grice ajjutmn mechnism for public utilities;
(o)    EstablisWment and staffing of pic utilie rgao  setiat.



-21 -
MWitorable Actions: By Second Tranche Release
1. 
(a)    Full operation of Privtization Trut;und, including appointment of maaging
institution and transfer of first blocks of shares to Fund;
(b)    Provision to IDA of a report on the pintization. infr ZCCIM
2. Sag NS
(a)    Adoption of a comprehensive  ro&=am  of Rdndan   Assistace and
satbQn    for staff made redundant as a result of privadzation program,
including possible use of company shares, housing and other company asets In
providing compensation to those made redundant.
3. Pdvate Sector Develoment
(a)    Enactment or amendment of lefislation concernig finanial instutions, the
capital market, business licensing, operation of companies, and monopoly
controls (see Effectiveness Condition 3(a) above);
*lb)   Simplt Stock WUNto be operadonal, with regulatory ramework in place;
(c)    Completion of sady, and submission to IDA of plans for revision, of regulations
goveing insurance companies, pension funds and other comrcsv
ijjtibljhns with a view to strengthening their role in the capital madret;
(d)    Adoption of action plans based on studies of investent financ and roles of the
ApnmIized-ftnaiac intittionS (DBZ, Lima Bank and Eximbank).
Monitorable Acdons: By Thd Ihnche Release
(a)    Completion oflma  Assmen SSy on conduct of prvation progam and
review of results with IDA;
O)    Sbmission of detailed plan for divesdture of shaes by manager of the
Privtization Trust Fund to Trustees and IDA;
(c)    Continued implementation of Vrtiop pro such diat  (I) sale
completed, or liquidation, of at leas 15 entprises; (i) all within Govement's
power done to sel a frther 20 enterpises; and (Hi) a total of at least 60
enterprises have been offered for sale.



-22-
2. SA     o
(a)    Continued satisfactory impl            _    o    n    o f _
COMPOion for all categories of redundan staff.
3. Frivate Sox Devel
(a)    Completion of reviw of industrial licensing nd regulatory famework for
and adoption of satisfacory action plan;
(b)   Adopdon of action plan for developmt of a Ian.Aukg
(c)    Compledon of review of effectiveness of nve     and of the Inv _tm
Center and adoption of a time-bound acdon plan for couectig any shortoming.
4.    P        Reori
(a)    Adoption of action plan to              & _         oublic id
(b)    Adoption of framework aments for PTC ZRL and ZESCO.
.   Justification and Risks
65.  MDA has played a critical role in mobilizing donor support for Zambia as It undeak
the difficult and exended reforms necesary to stabilize and turn around Its economy.  his
Credit provides continuity in IDA's support The reforms it supports are vi  to stabilizato and
growth: priate sector development and pushing on with the privatzation program, the refom
of public udlities so that they cease to require  ltonary subidis from the Governmt, and
financi system reform for more efficient resource mobilization and llocation. It focusses on
the need to develop a comprehensive approach to the Issue of redundacy, to mitigte its impact
and sustai support for the reform effort.
66.   Because the proposed opemion is so closely rdated to the overall adjustment process,
the project specific risks are very much of the sm  nature as thos for the adjustmet proces
as a whole, which were dissed in para 25 above. In summary, the operation faces political,
exutnal and imple on risks. The political risk aises from the pressure on the Governent,
that will grow as more people are afected by restructuring, to slow down or rever some of the
reforms. Nevertheless, the Government has demonsaed  convicdon and d          In
reforming the economy. The comprehensive program of redundanc asistance and    an
is also designed to mitigatoe his risk. The exal risk relates to Zambias cipplig debt burd;
the Bank is playing a key role in mobilizing the donor support required to support Zambia's
reforms. Lasty, the Government is taking steps to improve its impl ion capacity, and is
receiving ongoing support in this respect under the PIRC Technical Assistance Credt
67.   Nonetheless, adjustme  in Zambia remains fgie given the long history of wea_
in program imple tion, the strains of the many years of faiing per capita _icome, the sow
pace at which the benefits of adjustment become apparent, and th difficult challenge of auring
adequate exteral resources consistent with the needs of the 1993 financing pla   Goverment
has shown courage and determinaion to fulfill its mandate for refrm, despite the effects of the
catastrophic 1992 drought   t has  rgeed    its central coordiaon, monbing and



-23 -
Implementation review proess and has mobilized Jechnical asice and support for program
and project implementaton.
68.   The process of donor coordinton In LusIk, and the dialogue between the Governmot
and donors has geneally improved. Govemnt has sought successfy to enlist ineernational
donor assistance to help easeo i crippling eten  debt burden and rlease much needed foreig
exchange for critical vestments. Also, the Governmes economic reform efforts have eaned
broad support from the international community which is reolved to cotinue to asst Zambiaes
adjustent program  rough an intensive use of the CG process. Even so the refom  will not
be easy and progress is likldy to be uneven. Successful implmentation will call for frequent
supervision and review by IDA as well as concerted action by the Government and the donor
community.
69.   I am satisfied that the proposed crdit would comply with the Ardclas of Agr   of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors :pprove it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 27, 1993



SECOND PRIVATIZTION ANDU
G DRU)



Annex I
page 1 of 11
MFAL1102112/667
May 14, 1993
Mr. Edward V.K. Jaycox
Vice President Africa Region
World Bank
1818 H Strede NW
W%9M    DC
Dear Mr. Jaycox,
re:    ZAMBIA - SECOND PRIVATIZATiON AND INDUSTRAL RIFORM CREDIT
LEIT1ER OF DEVEOPMENT POLICY
1.    In early 1992 our Government reached agreement with the World Bank and the IMF on a Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) which sets out clearly our objective of moving Zambia's economy towards
private sector iniiative and free market principles. We furdter outlined the extensive reforms necessary
tD achieve these aims, including in particular the need to reduce sharply the size of the public sector
through a comprehensive programme of privatization. Despite some initial delays, we have made
reasonable advances in implementing the programme of privatization and parastatal reform which was
the focus of the first Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC), approved by IDA in June last
year. We recognize, however, that the task of reforning the whole structure of Zambia's economy will
require an intensive and dogged effort over several years on our part as well as continued support from
the donor community, particularly from the World Bank Group. The purpose of this letter is:-
(a)   to up-date you on progress made on the overall refonn programme since the Letter of
Development Policy dated May 28, 1992,
(3)   to epad on those aspects related to the privaizaion and parastat reform elements, and
(c)   to outline the next phases for the implementation of which we seek continued IDA
assistance tirough the proposed PIRC I Credit.
Macroeconomic Plides
2.    Our effrts to proceed rapidly on the economic reform programme were severely hampered by
the catastrophic drought that hit most of the region in 1992. We lost two-thirds of the vital maize crop -
our principal food. While the support of IDA and other donors enabled us to avert a potential disaster,
the cost of the drought was heavy; we estimate that the direct effects of the drought on balance of
payments were at around US $290 million in 1992 and another US $70 million in 1993. This includes
the cost of increased maize imports; of reduced non-traditional exports (including electricity), and of
electricity imports. The drought also had severe negative effects on income growth, fiscal and monetary



Annex I
page 2 of 11
operations and domestic inflation. Agricultural production last year dropped by 39.3 percent (in constant
1985 prices). Although partly offset by a 10 percent increase in mining, this led to a fall in GDP by 2.5
percent. Tne primary fiscal deficit reached about 2.8 percent of GDP, largely due to the cost of the
drought. This, with aggressive actions taken to bring the exchange rate and prices, particularly of maize
to market levels, led to a sharp increase in inflation to about 190 percent for the whole of 1992.
3.    Inflation is our most inmmediate and urgent problem, and Government in the last quarter of 1992
took strong measures to bring it under control. In the 1993 budget speech we stated publicly our goal
to bring inflation down to about 10 percent by the fourth quarter of 1993. This is an ambitious target.
We have already made a concerted effort to keep spending within the limits of actual revenue collected
and to mop up excess liquidity in the financial system by increasing Commercial Banks' reserve
requirements, raising the bank rate, and introducing a 15 percent charge on bank rediscounting
operations. We effected important changes on Inticterates. In mid-September 1992, the Bank of
Zambia (BOZ) removed the ceiling on Con.-iercial Bank lending rates and the floor on deposit rates.
A Treasury Bill auction system has since been introduced; interest rate levels are driven by prices in
this market and are now positive in real terms.                     I
4.    Fiscal policy is also being tightened. In 1992 the size of the civil service was reduced by 10
percent with the retrenchment of 12,000 government employees and a freeze on recruitment. In
December 1992 ZIMCO paid a mandatory dividend of K1.1 billion. A system of cash budgeting was
introduced earlier this year and capital and military expenditures were also cut by K1.5 billion, while
over-funding of some ministries clawed back. As a result of these measures, the fourth quarter saw a
deceleration of monetary expansion and strengthening of the fiscal position. We were also able to
substantially meet the performance benchmarks for the end of 1992 which were set in the revised Rights
programme agreed with IMF in July 1992. This allowed us to accumulate the agreed rights for the fourth
quarter.
a.    Government is committed to maintaining this stringent monetary and fiscal policy. Consistent
with our stated policy that Government should not be in the business of setting prices, formally or
otherwise, we are proceeding with plans to remove all subsidies by the middle of this year and not to
reintroduce them as reflected in our 1993 budget. Furthermore, we are requiring the public utilities,
including ZESCO, PTC, and Zambia Railways to adjust prices to economic levels, inter alia, so that
Government (directly or through the Bank of Zambia) would not provide further capital subventions, by
way of direct or indirect assumptions of liabilities in domestic or foreign currencies, to these enterprises.
Government is also deepening the process of civil service reform in order to increase efficiency through
streamlining, improved organization and procedures and comprehensive staff training. We are also taking
special steps to ensure that some of the causes of the fiscal slippage In 1992, in particular the need to
meet the external contractual obligations of Zambia Airways, do not recur.
Ex9prt Growth and Private Sector Development
6.    Stimulating the growth of non-traditional exports is critical for Zambia, both to diversify its
export base and to promote job creation. Hence, we accorded early priority to improving the incentives
framework for exporters. Our first task was to complete the reform of the 2iWn jgoui n  smgi to
cofrect long standing distortions in the valuation of the kwacha. In 1992 we liberalized the foreign
exchange regime further by introducing bureaux de change, widening the export retention market and
increasing the coverage of the OGL and converting it to a negative list. Since the OGL market uses the
bureaux rate, all exchange rates are now effectively unified and market determined. Receipts from non-
traditional exports and other current transactions may be sold at the bureaux de change, or at the retention



Annex I
page 3 of 11
market, at market-determined rates. The Bank of Zambia purchases all foreign exchange of Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mlnes (ZCCM) and provides foreign exchange to ZCCM and government at market
rates. There is now virtually unrestricted access to foreign exchange for current transactions. All goods
(with the exception of jewellery, precious metals and weapons) and all services (with the exception of
external debt payments) are eligible for bureaux financing. External trade tariff reform is also important
and we plan to proceed with further tariff revisions. An in-depth study for formulating a strategy and
timetable for phasing in tariff reforms has been completed and will be furnished to IDA. On the basis
of the resulting recommendations we have simplified the schedule of external tariffs and reduced the
highest tariffs to 40 percent. We are now considering further tariff reforms with the objective of
stimulating greater competition and efficiency. Business taxation has also been revised to broaden the
tax base, lower the corporate tax rate and speed up collection.
7.    Other steps are being taken to promote non-traditional exports. We have announced an expansion
of the bonded warehouse scheme and improvements in the duty drawback system for exports. The EEC
is financing a scheme to promote the development of exports in five key areas of horticulture, coffee,
cotton, textiles and tobacco. This effort is separate from the Export Board, which has responsibility for
general encouragement of exports through providing information to exporters and to potential importers
of Zambian goods, as well as promotional activities such as trade fairs.
8.    In my letter of development policy of May 1992, I stressed the importance we attach to the
development of a dynamic private sector and detailed the numerous changes necessary to reverse twenty
years of policies inimical to private initiative. We have since made good progress. Recent liberalizations
include full remittance of profits, and a full range of guarantees against interference and expropriation
with the right to international arbitration. Investment licensing procedures were also simplified, and the
Zambia Investment Centre was established. We intend to review its operations and results by the middle
of next year to ensure that it focusses on investment promotion and that it operates effectively as a
facilitator for prospective investors. In addition, guidelines to help investors to understand Zambia's
regulations will be published shortly. The import and export licensing system was also modified and it
now operates quite efficiently through the commercial banks.
9.    We have also initiated a comprehensive revision of all laws governing business activity are that
outdated and restrictive. In particular the Companies Act, the Bank of Zambia Act, the Stocl. Exchange
Act, (which will be renamed the Securities Act), and the Banking Act (which will be renamed the
Banking and Financial Institutions Act), are being amended. A new competition and anti-monopoly law
will be promulgated to forestall the emergence of private monopolies as the extensive network of public
monopolies is dismanded through the privatization process. Drafts of all these laws are now ready, and
these are being discussed with all interested parties, including the business and financial communities and
the appropriate professional associadons. Their comments and observations will be taken into account
by the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA), which is responsible for finalizing the drafts and for ensuring
that the inter-related provisions of the various Acts are well coordinated. We expect that the MOLA will
finalize drafts of all these Laws by mid-June. These will be submitted to Cabinet shordy thereafter. We
expect to present these Laws to parliament by the end of this year.
10.   We envisage that the privatization programme will open up significant new opportunities for the
development of small entrise to enable these to contribute significantly to production and job creation,
thus helping absorb some of the layoffs likely to result early on in the privatization process. Government
has initiated, and intends to complete by the end of the year, a review of the constraints hampering the
development of these enterprises. The objective is to develop a time-bound programme of specific



Annex I
page 4 of 11
measures to reduce and streamline the regulatory and licensing requirements for SSEs (including for
small-scale mining) and for easing their access to credit. The organization and set up of the two
promotional bodies for SSE development - the Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO) - and
- the Village Industries Organization (VIS) will be reviewed at the same time and the resulting
recommendations implemented by early 1994.
11.   Government recognizes that the issue of the legal status of land is most important for the
development of the private sector, particularly for new investments, in our country where one of the most
abundant resources is in fact land. In Zambia, the law, as it currently stands does not permit freehold
possession of land. Unimproved land is regarded as having virtually no value and hence of little use for
the purpose of collateral. About 90% of land in Zambia is subject to customary communal usage rights.
ITe remainder, about 1 million hectares, is effectively owned and administered by the Government. The
issue of land tenure is a complex one and reform will of necessity take a long time, particularly with the
meager resources at the Government's disposal to carry out the necessary cadastral surveys. The
Government is, under Section 13 (3) of the Land (Conversion of Titles) Act, 1975, required to determine
or fix the value of land in any sale, assignment, mortgage, lease, etc. Since the,beginning of 1992, the
Commissioner of lands grants consent for land transactions without using his discretion to fix the value
of land. The Act will have to be amended to effect the policy of letting the value of land be determined
by market forces. Although leasehold shall remain the mode of land tenure in Zambia, there are some
aspects of land ownership and land registration and transfer which have to be addressed in order to
facilitate the development of a land market. Preparations for the holding of a National Convention on
land are at an advanced stage. It is anticipated that the National Convention, will make legislative
proposals to effect policy decisions on ownership and transfer of land. Administrative arrangements to
facilitate land transactions will also be addressed both at the Convendon and in the ensuing legislation.
Government intends to complete, by December 1993, an in-depth review to identify the minimum
pragmatic measures and to develop an appropriate action plan for developing a land market.
The Financdal System
12.   The long term success of our efforts to develop a robust private sector, and to achieve the
objectives we have set for the privatization programme depend to a large extent on the ability of the
financial system to mobilize and allocate resources efficiendy. For this reason Government accords high
priority to modernizing the banking sector and putting in place the necessary legal and institutional
framework to permit the development of a small but effective capital market. A good start has already
been made on the legal reform side with proposed revisions to all legislation related to the hanIing
ystenm (Bank of Zambia Act and the Banking Act which will be replaced by the new Banking and
Financial Institutions Act). These changes will vest the Bank of Zambia with.the necessary powers in
the area of prudential regulations and the supervision of financial institutions.  This is being
complemented by an action plan (already under implementation) to strengthen the internal capability of
the Bank of Zambia in this critical area. Progress to-date on this plan includes the institution of fuller
reporting requirements from commercial banks, more regular and in-depth monitoring Cincluding through
on-site inspections), and the introduction of minimum capital adequacy standards for all financW
institutions. We will require those institutions that do not presently meet such standards to draw up
appropriate plans to come into compliance. The Banking Supervision Department has been restructured
and its complement of staff increased. New procedures are being developed with IMF and SIDA
assistance and we have started on a comprehensive training programme for all involved staff. These
developments have put the Bank of Zambia in a much better position to identify and address problems
at an early stage.



Annex I
page 5 of 11
13.   In the area of monetary policy we expect that the recent introduction of the T-Bill auction system
referred to above and the growth of secondary markets In these instuments, will assist in providing
greater depth to the money market. As the macroeconomic situation stabilizes, inased-tm
oransormation will become possible, enabling the banking system to move beyond short term trade-
related financing. The new Banking and Financial Institutions Act will also allow for the establishment
of new (for Zambia) institutions providing longer term loan and risk capital and financial services such
as venture capital, unit trusts etc. Since the new interest rate regime Is conducive to increased financial
savings, we plan to carry out a review of possible schemes for promoting savings (such as a save as you
earn system, savings plans related to pension schemes etc.). It will also be important to expand the
availability of term investment finance on a commercial basis. With this objective Government, with the
assistance of the International Development Association (IDA), the African Development Bank (ADB)
and Germany Development Cooperation Agency (DEG) has launched reviews of Development Bank of
Zambia (DBZ), Lima Bank and Eximbank to identify how these insdtutions can be retructured to meet
that need while operating on a commercially viable basis. We expect to act on the recommendations of
these reviews by the end of 1993.
14.   Apart from the revisions of the relevant legislation Government is taking important steps to foster
the development of a small but efficient cSail market that meets Zambia's needs. With the help of the
International Finance Cooperation (IFC), and financing from the privatization and industrial Reform
Technical Assistance Credit (PIRCTA), we engaged consultants to:
(i)   identify the minimum facility and institutional requirements for a simple over the counter (OTC)
type market,
(ii)   draw up the rules and regulations for fair trading in shares, the operation of stock-brokers and
market-makers including the listing and delisting of brokers and procedures for vetting,
approving and issuing prospectuses; and
(iii)   make recommendations for appropriate regulatory arran;-ments. This work is now complete and
we are reviewing the consultants' recommendations. We intend to start the implementation phase
within weeks and expect to have a small over-the-counter market in operation by t. e end of the
year.
15.   The development of long term investment resources will depend critically on more diverse and
robust contractual savings instituions. With the exception of some small private pension funds and a
few recently established insurance companies, most of these institutions are still State-owned and assets
are concentrated mainly on Illiquid real estate investments. Prudential regulations are inadequate and
outdated. Some insdtutions are also seriously underfunded. We intend to complete a critical review of
this sector by the end of the year to be used as a basis for updating the relevant prudential controls and
legislation and to identify an action plan to put the sector on a sound and viable foodng so as to enable
it play a fuller role in deepening the capital market.
The Prvatization and Parastatal Reform Prganmme
16.   The reform of the parastatal sector, which hitherto dominated Zambia's industrial sector, is the
centerpiece of the Government's strategy to restore efficiency and growth in the directly productive
sectors of the economy. As detailed in our last letter of development policy, the bntaizalfQn
proggmme is comprehensive in scope; it covers all parastals (i.e. about 160 companies), mostly
subsidiaries of ZIMCO, including ZCCM's non- copper companies, and a few non-ZIMCO parastatals.



Annex I
page 6 of 11
All are for sale with no restrictions on ownership, other than as needed to curtail monopolies and
encourage a wide spread of ownership. lhe scheduled nrogramme to be spread over a period of 5-7
years involves about 150 commercially-oriented companies. In addition we plan to offer for sale ZCCM
(and Memaco) as well as the public utilities after completion of studies to review the appropriate
privatization options and possible timing, as outlined below. We expect that about 10 companies will
be sold through public flotations in Zambia but a number of other companies may be sold with the
requirement to float a portion of the shares locally. Most other divestitures are expected to be direct sales
to domestic and foreign purchases, in some cases to existing management and/or employees. Companies
determined to be non-viable will be liquidated. While others will be broken up into units for sale
separately so as to enhance competition. With regard to the copper sector, Government has decided that
in future Zambia will rely on private investment to develop new copper reserves; we are also starting a
study of the options for privatizing ZCCM and of the relevance of Memaco as a separate marketing
company. By the end of this year, we expect to adopt a strategy and plan of action for the future role
of the private sector in the activities of ZCCM based on the results of this study.
17.   The Government placed early emphasis on putting in place an institutional framework and
operating policies and procedures that ensure that the privatization programme proceeds in an efficient
and transparent manner. The Privatization Act of July 1992 provides the legal basis for the programme;
it also established the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) as the body corporate responsible for planning
and executing the programnmeme. The Board and senior management of the ZPA, and most of its full
complement of technical staff have been appointed. The basic methodologies and policies for
privatization and for selecting, valuing and otherwise preparing the companies to be privatized are in
place. While ZLIMCO retains responsibility for safeguarding the Government's interests until a company
is privatized, the ZPA is responsible for all aspects relating to the sale of companies. This work has been
strongly supported by several donors. The German Government is financing reviews of 15 companies
to determine likely value and preferred method of sale as well as in assisting in the sale itself. The
American and British governments are providing direct assistance to the privatization agency, and UNDP
is also funding related work. Danish-financed consultants have completed a review of the rest of the
ZIMCO and ZCCM portfolio to identify the issues to be addressed and the approximate timing for
offering the companies. Further assistance has been provided by the EEC, Norway and Japan.
18.   Progress made in preparing companies for sale is ahead of schedule and of the commitments we
entered into under the terms of the PIRC. About 123 bids were received for the 17 companies offered
for sale in the first round, and negotiations with leading bidders are at an advanced state. The ZPA
expects to conclude the sale of about 15 companies this month. A further 29 companies (most of which
have minority shareholders with pre-emptive rights) have been offered for sale in the second round; this
includes several large and profitable companies (e.g. breweries, cement, metal fabricating and sugar
companies) in which there is considerable interest on the part of both local and foreign investors. The
ZPA is confident that it can reach negotiating state on the four biggest of these by mid-year; these four
companies represent over 10 percent of the total turnover of all companies scheduled for privatization,
(excluding the copper companies and the utilities). The ZPA has now updated the next stage of the
programme covering 1993 and 1994. An intermediate objective, that we expect to achieve by mid-1994,
is to have completed the sale of at least 15 enterprises, taken all steps within our control to bring a further
20 enterprises to the point of sale, and to have offered for sale a total of not less than 60 of the
enterprises to be privatised. Also given the importance and broad ramifications of the privatization
programme, Government will prepare, by mid-1994, an Impact Assesment Study that would examine
the impact and effectiveness of the privatization programme from the viewpoint of all affected parties,
including management and employees, shareholders, financial institutions, the private sector and the



Annex I
page 7 of 11
public at large. The recommendations of this study would be reviewed with IDA, with a view to
implementation.
19.   Government is very much aware that to succeed in its effort to restructure Zambia's economy it
must retain broad-based public support for its programmes. This is especially true in the case of
privatization and parastatal reform, on which there has been much public debate that reveal serious
concerns. These are related mainly to the limited degree to which the Zambian public can participate in
the progranune and the possible extent of staff layoffs expected as a result of the corporate restructuring
set off by the privatization process. These concerns need to be addressed quickly to allow us to sustain
the momentum of the programme.
20.   The need to develop financing vehicles to facilitate broad participation of Zamnbian investors in
the ownership of newly-privatized companies was recognized at the inception of the privatization
programme. Our paramount concern was to ensure that privatization would not lead to a concentration
of corporate ownership in the hands of a few, perhaps foreign, investors. It is out of this concern that
the Privatization Act makes provision for the establishment of a Privatization Trust Fund (PTF) to hold
in trust blocks of shares, in companies being privatized for later sale over time to Zambian individual and
institutional investors, as the absorptive capacity of the domestic capital market allows. I have already
taken the legal steps to establish the PTF. A Board of Trustees has been appointed comprising of
representatives of the Bankers' Asssociation, the Zambia Association of Chambers of Commerce and
Industries, the Law Association of Zambia, the Zambia Institute of Certified Accountants, and the
Government. We are developing a policy statement for the PTE that will clearly spell out the objective
of spreading share ownership amongst Zambian investors and the transitory nature of the institution. We
will ensure that the operational policy of the PTF emphasizes the need to divest as quickly as possible
within the limits set by the market and includes safeguards to ensure that the PTF's operations conform
to the spirit and objectives of the privatization programme and specifically that it does not become a de
facto public investment holding company. We expect to have the PTF fully operational by the end of
the year and start divesting its shareholdings to the public by early 1994.
21.   Under the provisions of the Privatization Act, the proceeds from the sale of the companies will
accrue to a Revenue Account under my Ministry's control. The Act permits these receipts to be used
for a variety of purposes, including expenditures incurred in connection with the privatization process,
making redundancy payments, making investments in companies being privatized and general
expenuicures of Government. The proceeds from the first round of company sales should start flowing
into the Revenue Account shordy. Because of the potentially heavy demands to use the sales proceeds,
against an equally pressing concern to restrain monetary growth, we have formulated a Policy Statement
that sets out the basic policies and safeguards to be established for the use of Revenue Account funds
during its first year. We will update this policy statement annually.
22.   The parastatal reform programme has two distinct parts:
(i)   the transitional arrangeMents for the companies to be divested, and
(ii)   the regalatory sIstem for the public utilities that are likely to be retained in public
ownership for the next few years.



Annex I
page 8 of 11
ZIMCO has been transformed into an investment holding company with a limnited mandate. For those
enterprises slated for privatization, ZIMCO is now responsible for representating the State's interests until
their sale, and has the responsibility to provide a chairman for each subsidiary, to receive financial reports
on a regular basis, and to ensure that the companies are being prudently managed until they are
privatized. ZIMCO will no longer establish companies itself, nor will it authorize or finance new
investments or lend to subsidary companies or guarantee their borrowing fronm third parties - including
from other companies within the ZIMCO group. ZIMCO's former sub-holding companies (INDECO,
NIEC, and NHDC) ceased operations in Macch 1993 and are being legally wound up. The role of
ZIMCO as an investment holding company is temporary and will be phased out over five years as the
privatization programme is implemented. Companies being privatized have been accorded full autonomy
on operational matters and pricing policies. They are allowed to Invest only in accordance with the
Public Investment Programme; i.e. for emergency rehabilitation or for quick pay-back investments that
will be fully paid for out of earnings prior to diverstiture and are not allowed to diversify into other lines
of business. Government will not provide any subsidies to these companies. The companies are required
to pay a 10% dividend to Government as priority before considering other needs.
23.   We have already stated that companies that are not expected to be financiahy viable will be closed
down and their assets disposed of through liquidation. Government, working through ZIMCO and the
ZPA, is now commissioning in-depth viability reviews of the more important loss making enterprises to
develop action plans to stanch the losses even before privatization. Government is however particularly
concemed to resolve the problems of Zambia Airways (ZA) which in 1992 had losses amounting to US
$15 million equivalent. With technical assistance from a British Airways subsidiary, ZA has drawn up
a plan for restructuring its equipment leases, route network and pricing policies and Cabinet has now
approved a comprehensive plan for its restructuring. Implementation of this plan is proceeding forthwith.
24.   Because of their monopoly status and strategic position in the economy, Government attaches
great importance to the reform of those parastatal enterprises - basically the public utilities - that are
expected to remain in the public sector for the next few years. As we have already made clear,
Government will ensure that these enterprises are free of all political interference in their pricing policies
and management and that they do not receive any public subventions. To this end, we are adopting an
automatic price and tariff adjustment mechanism for the public utilities that will allow them to become
financily viable within one year. We have also established an interim public utilities regulatory system
to oversee the operational efficiency and financial performance of the public utilities. This interim public
utilities secretariat, established inside ZIMCO, will approve the annual plans of the utilities, including
price adjustment outside the scope of the automatic price adjustment mechanism.
25.   To improve the efficiency of the sector further, we are following a two-part strategy:
fIkt, to institute in each enterprise the necessary changes in their operational policies (management,
staffing, organization etc) to increase their efficiency and make them financially autonomous and, Second
to establish a long-term regulatory framework that would include review of pricing policies on the basis
of incentive-based formulae that incorporate efficiency measures and performance targets. Good progress
has been achieved on the first phase; business plans for the smaller utilities (Zimoil, Tazama and Indeni)
have already been through their first annual cycle and we have also started efficiency studies and strategy
plans for three large ones, Zambia Railways (ZR), Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation (ZESCO) and
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (PTC). These companies have already started programmes
for reducing costs and improving productivity and customer service standards. Over the past year or so
the prices charged by ZESCO, ZR and the PTC have not kept up with the level of cost increases. To
allow these enterprises to regain operational positive cash Slow in the short term, we have given them



Annex I
page 9 of 11
autonomy on pricing decisions and they are expected to bring their prices, within 12 months, to a level
where they cover all costs, including cost of capital, and provide an acceptable return. Subsequently,
they should also be expected to reflect progressively improved efficiency and productivity in their tariff
structure. In the interim, Government will continue to manage the overall public investment needs for
the utilities in the context of the Public Investment Programme. However, because of the amounts
involved the Investment programmes of the utilities will have to be financed largely by donors and these
will require Government guarantees, with commensurate Government policy supervision. In addition,
plans to develop competition and encourage private sector participation in the provision of specific
services are being implemented.
26.   Recognizing that these are only transitional arrangements, we have invited proposals for a
consultancy study to recommend appropriate regulatory arrangements for the public utilities to be adopted
for the longer term. We expect that this would involve establishing an autonomous regulatory agency,
which would have the responsibility of setting and monitoring, inter alia, customer service and
productivity standards, and overall pricing policies, as well as encouraging appropriate competition and
private sector provision of specific services. Pricing policies would include incentive-based formulae
incorporating efficiency measures and performance targets for each of the main utility sectors. lhe
establishment of these formulae is included in the scope of proposed work. This study would also review
other problems faced by utilities including the interest costs on late payments, long delays in the
settlement of due bills by 6overnment, and tariff structures that are no longer appropriate given the cost
structures of these companies. The end products are expected to Framework Agreements between
Government and the utilities and specific proposals for a long term regulatory system. This study will
be completed by May 1994. We expect to start putting these long term regulatory arrangements for the
public utilities in place by mid-1994.
27.   One particular area of critical importance to the economy and where parastatal organizations still
play a large role is the oil sector. We have already announced in the 1993 budget our intendon to reform
the sector starting with the immediate liberalization of imports of petroleum and petroleum-based
products. it is also Govermment's intention to follow this up (by December 1993) with steps to open up
the Tazama pipeline to private use associated with a requirement that Zimoil and Indeni publish a price
schedule respectively for toll use of the pipeline and refinery respectively. We also intend shordy to end
all price and margin controls on petroleum and related products and to commission a study, on the
export market potential for petroleum based r -liicts from Zambia to be completed by the end of the
year.
Socal &ffet Net
28.   While economic adjustment measures will in the long-run benefit all sections of the population
through the general improvement in economic growth, it is recognized that in the short-run some
measures like retrenchment of some workers in the civil service and the necessary increases in the prices
for maize and fuel may have a poverty increasing effect. The Government is implementing several
programmes to address this concern. Budgetary allocations for the social sectors were increased
substantially in the 1993 budget and we are endeavoring to ensure that the funds are used effectively.
(i)    Welfare Assistance Fund. An amount of Ki billion v  allocated to the Ministry of
Community Development and Social Services for expenditure in 1992 as targeted
assistance to the needy. The funds were spent with the help of local non-governmental
organization with capacity to identify the needy. In 1992 some K265 million was spent.
The low disbursement rate was partly due to the new Ministry's start-up problems.



Annex I
page 10 of 11
How..ver, sufficient experience has been gained on which to base a smooth
implementation of the Welfare Assistance Fund from 1993.
(ii)   Programme to Prevent NMalnutrition. The Programme to Prevent Malnutrition (PPM)
was established under the auspices of the Ministry of Health to coordinate the distribution
of free or subsidized food items to the needy. Its implementation reflects a collaborative
effort between the World Food programme, the Government and local non-governmental
organisations (NGOs). During 1992 over 58,000 tons of maize and 1,500 tons of maize
and sorghum seed were distributed. Many NGOs are still distributing the food through
"food-for-work" programmes which have the additional benefit of improving rural
infrastructure. It is intended to capitalize on the experience gained and extend the PPM
in 1993 and beyond.
(iii)   Entrepreneurial Development and Training for Retrenched EniRlovees. The policy
to restructure and privatize the economy entails, in the short-term, laying off some public
sector employees. The Government has recognized the need to, prepare such employees
through training to take up alternative self employment and business ventures. In that
way, the retrenched persons would continue to sustain themselves and help broaden the
private sector. The Establishment Division at Cabinet Office is finalising details of the
training programme. The programme will include the following phases:- a pre-training
phase of identifying and carefully selecting those who could be developed as
entrepreneurs; a training phase which will include business opportunity identification,
business project formulation and business management, and a post training stage of
helping trainees to launch and consolidate their ventures. Funds are being sought from
the donor commnunity to augment Government resources.
29.   Government recognizes that it must focus immediately and forcefully on developing a
comprehensive programme to provide assistance to those being retrenched as a result of the privatisation
programme and related corporate restructuring. The process of privatization incorporates safeguards to
minimize the extent of these layoffs and the Government has already initiated plans for counselling and
training redundant staff. However redundancies are likely to be substantial. In addition, cash
compensation at the levels agreed with unions and managements is unlikely to be feasible given the
present situation of monetary and fiscal austerity. Moreover, many of those who will become redundant
currendy live in the job-related housing which they would have to vacate on employment termination.
We are now undertakng a review, with Swedish Government assistance, of these issues and of the
options available to help us develop a comprehensive compensation package and create alternative
employment opportunities for those affected including through the transfer of various Government and
parastatal owned assets in part compensation to those made r'Aundant. The assets being considered
include:
(i)   shares in companies being privatized (through a unit trust arrangement to ensure fairness
and equity);
(ii)   urban and agricultural land, of which Government has available a substantial amount of
commercial, non-communal land, much of it already cleared and accessible; and
(iii) houses, furniture, vehicles and other equipment currently in use by those who may
become redandunt.  We intend to start implementing a comprehensive programme
regarding compensation by December 1993.



Annex I
page 11 of 11
PropMMe Managt
30.   The economic adjustment progranune we have embarked on, poses formidable challenges for
successful implementation. For these reasons, and due to the need to coordinate the multiple policy
initiatives amongst the different ministries and agencies of Government, we have entrusted the
management of the overall programme to the Economic Affairs Monitoring Committee which is chaired
by myself and composed of members from National Commission for Development Planning, Cabinet
Office, Bank of Zambia, ZCCM, Central Statistical Office, and other Government ministries and
agencies, besides my officials.
31.   The proposed Second PIRC helps us fill a critical gap in meeeing Zambia's external financing
needs for 1993. More importantly, it will help us implement the difficult reforms necessary to change
the fundamental structure of Zambia's economy and revitalize it after twenty years of decline. IDA's
support is also essential to help us mobilize the assistance of other donors, which is also critical to the
attainment of our structural adjustment objectives.
Yours sincerely,
Ro v  D.S.  n   MP
ImSTER OF FINANC
Imnun



Annex II
page 1. of 4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                            i ||* |f/i 
wf    I   i}I    AX1   {t'!iI                                 1
|}   l*11                             i 11't f



!bjectives                  PIRC Targets and Perfo_ance                          PIRC 11 Prograun Targes                            lIRC II Trming
Enue Zambian pafticipate                                                         Esbst of Puatization Tnrst Pund (FTP),             Board Presation
in holding shares in                                                            including lega arrangems, Board of Trustees and
privatied e _epris.                                                              operating Policis.
FuD operatio of Privation Tmst Fund, including     Second Tmanchc
sppointmnen of anaging fumanci institution and transfer
of fird block of shares to PMP.
Submission by PfP Maager to Trslees and IDA of     lbird Tranche
detailed plan for diwitro of shars edd by PW.
Extend Piatiaion Program                                                         Seletion of consutants to cary out stategic sbdy of  Board Preseaion
to include ZCCM.                                                                 pr*vatian options for ZCCM, the copper mining
company.
2. SafvNc
Put in place a co _presive   Basi action pan to asist redundat staff through cash  PIRC 1bird Tranche condition also applies.       Effictivens
affrdable and socily        compnsato, counsing n busines trainin (hid
acoeqabl program to deal    Tranchendiion).
wih the hre number of                                                            Adoption of a com n     Pogm of Redundacy          Second Tranlche
reduanda     liky to arise                                                       A anoe and  ar        o  for stff madce rdun    as
from public sector                                                               a result of privatizain program, ousin   paticlrly on
n _re ctuing and the                                                             use of non-cash assds of fim being privized.
pdvatzado pram.
Continued saisfactory impstemenlion of Prgram of   Third Tranche
Redundacy Assistae and Compenation fbr a
categorie of redundant staff.
3. Piate Sector and Cace Ma)hrketD
Provison of an enabling     Enactment by Parliament of updated bls relating to   Submission of satisfactory draft lgisbtion to Cabinet  Efftiveness
evwirometn for private      banking, business licensing, company law, insurance and  Legisbtion Committee regarding: licensing and
sector devlopment and for    stock change, and competition policy ThW Tanche;    supervision of finarcial institutions; licensing and
ownership and trading of    IDA proposes to revise tis condition, to match PIRC 11  regultion of a stock xchnge and all securities busimess;               .e
dshaes.                     Effectess Condtion).                                 business licensig; company operations; and reatriive                      e
trade practices and monopolies. 
Enactment or amendment of legislation conoeroing   Second Tranche         o
financial institutions, thecapital market, business
licensing, operation of companies, and monopoly
controls.



lllC TxretN   ral lUonaan                              n2Rc if re        TalWgels                          11'11C 11 llmW
lssu guideurs fort eguwtbn of capiwMat                Prepazio of gukSnc for reguto of capitMO"            Esna* ea
banntc w   oand o of sxk oxlt gchu(Tit                trausacions anW opawon of slock e aingc,
Tranch; IDA proposes to revie dhis coadkio, to match
PRC U Bffees condition)
Simple dock exang to be tufty opetational, with     SecoNdTawctc
regplatory fowrk in place.
Compltion of study, and submission to IDA of plans for   Second Tranche
revion, of regulations govaning contraetual savings
instiutions with a view to stengtheing their role in the
capital tmrkt.
Mosures in pbce to strengthen cenral bank's reguatotry
power and supaevision capacky wih respect to bank and
othet fiancial instittions (rhird Trache;, complied with
by May 1993).
Adoption of action plans based on studies of investment    Second Tranche
ruanco and roles of the specialized finacial instiutions
(DBZ. Lima Bank and Eximbank).
Succeasfiul opeation of Inestmt Center in streamlined
investumt licensing Chird Tmanche; complied with by
April 1993).
Compltion of review of cffectivaness of Investent Act   Third Tranche
and of thc role of the Investment Cena, and adoption of
time-bound acdion plan for correcting any shotcomings.
Adoption of action pln for develpment of a land     Third Trancle
market.
Completin of review of industrial and regubtory     Third Tranchc
franework for SSBs ad tols of SSe supponrinstiutions
And adoption of satisfactory aion pse.
0 H
4>
-   .                                                                                 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 11
page 4 of 4
U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A~~~~~~~O



Annex III
page 1 of 6
ZAMBIA- -K*m  INATORS
Sase Case Projectfon
......................... ....................................................__. ...... ...... ........... .,,,...... ,,,,,,,.....................,. ....,,_......._
-- --------- - Actual                              -- .Projected        *-------
1980    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1996    2000
........................... ........................................................._._...... ........................_
ReaL Growth Rates:
Gross Oomestic Product (MCP)            3.02    6.3X   -1.0X   -0.5X   -1.82   -9.62   11.9X    5.4X    S.6X    5.82
Gross Oomestic Income (MOY)             -2.82   11.42  .14.02    5.92    2.32  *16.02   17.02   6.2X    4.1t    7.82
Real Per Capita Growth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product (GOP)            -0.3     2.42   -4.72   -4.1X  -4.8X  *12.4X    8.4X    2.1X    2.3X    2.52
Total Consurption                       -4.12    2.32   -6.12  -18.32   12.2X  -12.4X   12.5X   -2.62    1.4X    1.32
Private Consumption                     -9.32    6.8X  *13.1X  -22.12   16.22  *12.8X  12.92   -2.7X    1.5X    1.5%
Debt & 0. Serv  es (LT+ST+IMP): 1/
Total 000 CUSSI) 2/                   3261.1  6839.0  6716.0  ?260.0  7423.0  7622.0  7905.0  8094.0  8488.0  9265.0
000 / GOP                                84.02  188.32  154.62  196.0X  193.82  188.32  216.62  202.52  177.52  135.92
Debt Service (USSM)                        ..   751.9  711.3  801.0 - 791.0   736.0  663.0  617.0  465.5   645.0
Debt Service / Exports                     ..    61.9X   47.62   59.?7   67.9%   61.9X   63.6X   54.12   41.2X   42.92
Debt Service / GOP                               20.7X   16.42   21.62   20.62   18.2X   18.2X   15.42    9.72    9.5%
Interest Burden CLT+STNtMF):
tnterest Paid (USSM)                       .   411.0  407.0  332.0  378.0  313.0  314.0  291.0   272.0   282.0
Interest f Exports                         .    33.92   27.32   24.7X   32.42   26.3X   30.12   25.52   24.12   18.82
Interest / GOP                             .    11.32    9.4X    9.0    9.92    7 72   8.6X    7.3%    5.72    4.1X
Gross Investment Y GDP                   23.3X   11.42    9.9X   15.5X   12.7X   15.22   18.0X   20.5X   24.0X   25.0O
tCORs CS-yr endTng year shoan) 3/      77.00    5.90    6.40    8.00   12.40   -9.30  *30.90   15.90    5.00    4.50
Oomestic savings I GOP                   19.3X   16.4%   14.82   14.82   10.8X    5.92    6.92   12.12   12.32   15.32
BOP Resource talance / GOP 4/            -4.02    5.02    4.92   -0.7X   -1.9X   -9.3X  -11.12   -8.42  -11.72   *9.7X
National Savings / GCP                   9.22    6.62    7.6"   12.42   13.52   13.7X   14.02   15.42   16.52   18.42
SOP Current Account Salance / GOP  5/  -13.8X   -7.32   -5.12  -10.92  -13.22  *18.2X  -21.2X  -17.0X  -17.62  -13.92
Marginat Domestic Savings Rate           0.78   -0.26   -0.88   -0.13    0.16   -0.51   *0.17   *0.94    0.02   *0.53
Marginal National Savings Rate           3.97   -0.16    0.66    0.27   *0.34   -0.34   *0.16   -0.34    0.02   -0.50
Governrent Investment / COP                .      4.7X    4.7X    5.SX    4.7X    5.2X    6.02    6.52    7.02    7.02
Government Savings / GOP                 -9.82   -8.02   -4.12   -1.02    0.52    6.02   10.32   10.42   11.6%    9.92
Private Investment / GOP                   ..     6.7%    5.32   10.0t     8.02   10.0X  12.02   14.02   M70%   18.02
Government Revenues / GOP                24.02   18.82   19.22   21.9X   23.52   32.9X   31.12   27.52   27.4X   24.42
Government Expenditures / GOP            44.32   27.32   28.82   29.3%   30.6X   32.32  26.92   23.52   22.82   21.42
Sudg. Def. (C) or Surplus / GOP         -20.32   -8.52   -9.62   -7.42   -7.12    0.62    4.22    4.02    4.62    3.02
Primary Deficit C-) or Surplus / GOP    19.32   -7.12   -6.22   -0.52    0.12    8.82   10.42    6.62    5.7X    2.92
Consuner Price Index (2 growth)          11.72   55.62   96.32  109.62   93.42  209.32  112.02   57.42   17.3X    5.02
GOP Oeftlator (% growth rate)            11.82   42.82  102.02  113.7X   97.52  209.32  112.0X   57.42   17.3%    5.02
Real Exchange Rate C198t7100)           232.3   155.7  205.8  173.4  153.6  161.3  172.6   1n.6   172.6   172.6
Terms of Trade tndex (1987=100)            ..   122.0    64.5   100.9   95.0   104.5   83.2  107.8   101.2  105.5
Export (GNFS)/Volume Growth Rate 6/      -3.1X   -5.92   -1.4%   15.92  -16.62    9.12   -4.42    2.72    2.52    2.32
Exports (GNFS) / GOP                     41.42   34.22   32.0%   34.72   30.42   29.1X   29.02   29.02   24.02   22.42
Imports (GNFS) Volume Growth Rate        12.92   -0.22  -16.2%   -6.42   -8.92    8.32   14.82   -1.92    2.2%    1.62
Imports CGNfS) / GOP                     45.42   26.92   27.62   35.42   32.32   38.92  40.32   37.02   35.32   31.82
SOP Current Balance (USSR)             -S37.0  -263.9  -222.4  -401.9  -504.0  -736.8  -M.8  -680.9  -842.7  -949.8
Net Reserves CUSSM)                      78.0  134.0   116.0  193.0  185.0  277.0  297.0  327.0   367.0  447.0
Gross Reserves(USSM)                               .    .           ..      ..      .
Net Reserves (months imports)             1.0     1.0      1.0     1.6    1.7      1.8    2.0      2.2     2.3      2.3
.....................................................................................................................
Note; Atl ratfos are catculated from data In current prices and exchane rates. ICOR and growth rates are based on
constant price data. Marginal savings rates are based on current priee data deflated by expenditures deflator.
t. OLT" denotes long-term debt; "St" denotes sht-rterm debt.
2. Debt outstanding and debt disbursed.
3. Incremental capital output ratfis with a 5-year period.
4. "SOP" denotes "Balance of Payments.
5. Current account balance is before offieial transfors.
6. Goods and nonfactor servfces.



Annex III
page 2 of 6
ZANHIA BALANCE Of PAYNVTS
(USS millions in current prices)
Base Case Projection
....... ............ .................. ........................................  ........,  ,  ....*........
-   ---- - -    -Actual- .-....      ---.--.-----   - Projected        t ed -- .--- - .
1980    1988    1989   1990   1991   1"92   1993    1994        1996     2000
,,,,,....,,,,,......  ,,,.... .......................................................
A. Exports of GHFS I/                   1609.o  1214.0  1493.0  1342.0  1165.0  1188.2  1042.2  1140.1   1128.6   1502.9
1. Merchandise (FOB)                  1457.0  1155.0  110.0  1263.0 1082.0  1104.0  947.0  1034.0   996.7  1299.0
2. Mon-Factor Services                 152.0   59.0   83.0   79.0   83.0   84.2   95.2   106.1    131.9   203.9
8. Imports of GNF5                      1765.0  1031.9  1280.4  1348.9  1237.0  1566.0  1448.0  1476.0   1686.7  2165.7
1. Merchandise tCIF)                  1114.0   788.0   900.0  889.0  9S2.0  1281.0  1133.0  1137.0  1402.0   1839.0
2. Non-Factor Services                 651.0  243.9  380.4  479.9  285.0  285.0  315.0  339.0   284.7   326.7
C. Resource Balance                     -156.0  182.1   212.6   -26.9  -72.0  -377.8  -40S.8  -335.9  -558.1   -662.8
0. Net Factor Income                     -205.0  -411.0  -407.0  -332.0  -392.0  -326.0  -334.0  -312.0   -248.0  -252.0
1. Factor Receips                        0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0
2. Factor Payments                     205.0  411.0   407.0  332.0  392.0  326.0  334.0  312.0   248.0   252.0
a. Totat Interest Paid (ORS) 2/           .    7S.0   72.0   70.0  3?8.0  313.0  314.0  291.0   272.0   282.0
b. Interest due but not paid            0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0
c. Other Factor Payments and discrepa    ..  336.0  335.0  262.0   14.0   13.0   20.0   21.0   -24.0   -30.0
E. Net Current Transfers                -176.0   -35.0   -28.0  -43.0  -40.0  -33.0  -33.0  -33.0    -36.6    -35.0
1. Current Receipts                     67.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0             0.0      0.0
a. Workers remittances                 67.5    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0      0.0
b. Other current Transfers              0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0      0.0
2. Current Payments                    210.9   35.0   28.0   43.0   40.0   33.0   33.0   33.0    36.6             35.0
F. Current Account Balance
1. Before official capital grants     -537.0  -263.9  -222.4  -401.9  -504.0  4736.8  -M7.8  -680.9  -842.7  *949.8
2. Official capital grants              33.0   99.9    71.8  295.5  508.0  632.0  505.0   359.0   428.0   400.0
3. After official capital grants      -504.0  -164.0  -150.6  -106.4    4.0  -104.8  -267.8  -321.9   -414.7   -549.8
0. Long Term Capital Inflows             467.0    21.9  -477.0  -714.4  -136.0  -128.0  -39.0  -61.0    65.0   -133.0
1. Direct Investment                    62.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.0   3S.0   151.0   130.0
2. Net LT Borrowing (OR8)              424.0  136.0   105.9   63.7  -179.0  -183.0   96.0  -116.0    -86.0   -263.0
a. Disbursements                      693.3  242.0  208.9  159.7  234.0  240.0  2S3.0  210.0   107.0   100.0
b. Repayments                         269.3  106.0  103.0   96.0  413.0  423.0  349.0  326.0   193.0   363.0
3. Other LT Inflows (net)               -19.0  -114.1  -S82.9  -M.1   43.0   5S.0   50.0   20.0           0.0      0.0
M. Total Other Items (net)              -122.0  -220.1   371.7  390.8   36.1  -55.0  -50.0  -20.0           0.0      0.0
1. Net Short-Term Capital             -147.0  -163.0  502.0  529.0  -43.0  -55.0  -S0.0  -20.0            0.0      0.0
a. Interest Arrears                     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0            0.0      0.0
b. Other net ST capital              -147.0  -163.0  502.0  529.0  -43.0  -5S.O  -SO.o  -20.0            0.0      0.0
2. Capital Flows n.e.i. 3/               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.o    0.0             0.0      0.0
3. Errors and omissions                 25.0  -S7.1  -130.3  -138.2   79.1    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0      0.0
I. Changp  In Net Reserves               159.0  362.2   255.9  430.0   95.9  287.8  356.8  402.9   349.7   682.8
C- Indicates increases)
1. Net Credit from the t1f               8.0    75.6    77.3   89.4  -37.7  -39.2  -89.6    0.0           0.0   -175.7
2. Reserves Changes n.e.i.             151.0  286.6   178.6  340.6  133.6  327.0  446.4  402.9   349.7   858.5
3. Escrow account                        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0            0.0      0.0
,,...............,......................_..............                     ......................
1. Goods and nonfactor servfces.
2. UDOSW denotes Oebt Reporting Service.
3. Un.e.f." denotes hot else,hdre included.
........ .............. ..,.............,,,...... ,_.....................................................................   ......................................................
J. As Shares of GOP (current USS)O
1. Rescurces Balance                    -4.0X   5.0X   4.9X   0.7X  -1.92  -9.32  -11.1X  -8.42   t11.7X   -9.72
2. Interest Payments (LT+INF.ST)           .   11.32   9.46   9.0X   9.92   7.78   8.6X   7.32            5.7X    4.12
3. Current Account Balance              -13.8X  *7.3X   *5.1X  -10.9X  -13.2X -18.2X  -21.22  -17.02   -17.61   -13.9X
4. LT capital InfLow (F.2*0)             12.02   0.62  -11.02  -19.32  -3.52   -3.2X   -1.1X  -1.S       1.42    -2.0X
5. Not Credit from the tMF               0.2X   2.12    1.8X   2.46   -1.0X  *1.0X  -2.S2   0.0X    0.02    -2.6X
K. Forefgn Exchange Reserves:
1. Gross Reserves (excludfng gold)      78.0  134.0  116.0  193.0  185.0  277.0  297.0  327.0   367.0   447.0



Annex III
page 3 of 6
2. Gold (end-year London price)                ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..
3. Cross Reserves (including gold)             ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       .
4. Net Reserves (in months Imports)          1.0 °     .0      I.O      1.6     1.7      1.8     2.0      2.2       2.3       2.3
L. Exchange Rates
1. tn 4ominal Terms (LCU/USS) 4/
8. Primary (Officital) Rate
Annua  Aver4ge                         0.789   8.266  13.814  30.289  64.640 171.000 450.000 679.981  974.679 1136.420
End-of-Year                            0.803  10.000  21.640  42.700  84.000 29.soo 528.148 798.068 1143.944 1301.955
b. GNP Conversion factor                  0.M89   8.266  13.814  30.289  6b.640 171.000 450.000 679.981  974.679 1136.420
2. In Real Terms (base 19867100)
a. KUY (PAC estimates)(X change) 5/         9.72    7.3X    0.7X    5.72    2.1X    2.8X    3.90    3.92           3.8Z      3.82
b. Index Real Exchange Rate (US#/LCU)  232.3   155.7   205.8   173.4   153.6   161.3   172.6   172.6    172.6    172.6
P. Nemorandurn Item
CaP (current USSR)                          3846.0  3632.0  4345.0  3704.0  3831.0  4048.0  3649.0  3998.0   4783.0   6818.0
H. Optional 0etails for RmSN-X
1. Total Factor Payments                      ..       ..       4.       ..      ..       ..       .. ..
a. Goveront tnterest                          ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      ..
b. Private Sector Interest          .     .           *. ..             ..      ..       ..       ..      ..
c. Profit an Direct foreign                           ..       ..       ..      ..                ..      ..       ..  ..
Investment
2. Official Capital Grants                     ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..
a. For Budgetary  fnancing                    ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..       ..
b. To Extra-Budgetary Entitles (OPS)  ..              ..       ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..       ..
3. Government Met LT Borrowing                 ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..
a. Ofsbursements                                      ..       44       ..      4.       4. .. .. . 
b. Repayments                .        .               ** ..             .       ..       ..       4.      44 .4
4. Private Net LT Borrowing           .    .                             ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..
a. Disbursements               .       .  . 
b. Repayments                .        .                        *.       4.      ..       ..       .. ..
..................... ............................................ .. .. ... ........ ........... _............................
4. *LCIU denotes Local currency units.
S. 'qUNv denotes the unit value Index of manufactured exports from setected industrialized countries
(Frances Germany, Japan U.K., and U.S.) to developing country expressed in US#.



Annex III
page 4 of 6
ZAMBIA: External Financing Requirements,
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
sat.
1991       1992     1993      1994
1. Current Account, excluding
interest and official transfers         -90      -411     -446      -373
(Drought Impact)                               (283)      50
2.  Debt service obligations                 -791     -736      -663     -617
Nonmultilaterals                       -462     -502     -444      -414
Scheduled obligations               -334      -481     -368      -327
Paris Club creditors              -212      -400     -285      -235
Other                             -122       -81      -83       -92
Interest on arrears and
service of rescheduled
obligations                         -128       -21      -76       -87
Paris Club creditors               -78        -8      -59       -62
Other                              -50       -13      -17       -25
Multilaterals                          -329     -235     -220      -203
World Bank                            -88      -73      -77       -71
IMF                                 -172       -95      -74       -66
Other Multilaterals                   -69      -67      -69       -66
3.  Targeted reduction of arrears 1/        -1050     -199      -123        0
Nonmultilaterals                       -833     -119       ...       .
Paris Club creditors               -76      -119      ...
Other                             -757         0                ...
Multilaterals                          -217      -80     -123         0
World Bank                          -253       -39       ...       .
IMF                                   20       -32      -87       ...
other Multilaterals                    16       -9      -36       ...
4. Change in net international
reserves, ex. IMF (increase - )          31      -92    -20 3/      -30
(o/w: gross reserves)                 11       -14    -30 3/      30
5. Gross Financing requirement
(- 1+2+3+4 )                          -1900    -1439    -12S3    -1020
6. Debt relief 2/                            1158      567       338      264
Paris Club creditors               295       517      247       210
other                              863        50       91        S4
7. Financing requirement after arrears
accumulation and debt relief
(- 5 + 6)                             -742      -872     -91S      -756
8.  Identified possible disbursements         742      872       758      569
World Bank (nonproject)                202      165      205       12S
BOP support from other donors          264      326      302       150
Commodity Assistance                    76      246      103        54
(Maize)                          (--)      (146)     (50)      (--)
(non-maize)                      (76)      (100)      02)       54)
Project assistance                     244      191      240       260
Suppliers, private and
short-term capital, net 3/          -43       -55    -50 3/      -20
9. Financing requirement, after
identified disbursements
and debt relief                           0        0       115     -187
Memo: Copper volume ('000 UT)                 375      409       390      400
Copper price (USs/lb)                 1.06   $1.036   $0.920   $0.920
Source:  Bank of Zambia, and Fund staff estimates.
1/ Excludes temporary further accumulation of arrears to nonmultilaterals
pending conclusion of rescheduling discussions.
2/  includes deferral, and temporary accuulation of arrears to
nonmultilaterals pending concluson of rescheduling discussions.
3/  Does not include expected shift of US$28 million in gross reserve
from the Bank of Zaiia to the commercial banks, under new
procedures for managing 01 funds and retention accounts.



Annex III
page 5 of 6
Zauabia Resources And E
mm S&me. !mk!!M.ges
is-se  aue      rea ,a
Indicate,                      L~~~aUr.f         jw       ~ w        ~et         Saw.
outuv  --- e -           go    92          iMM       &uMwue      m
HUNA.R RESOURCES
Popula* ou(nmrc-)91)                     tboeSad            3,614      4,841       U19       488932   3.12?.6       773.W0
Ag8 d endy  radlo                          rdo               0.92       0.97        1.07        031        0.          0.71
utban                                    %ofpod              233        34.8        51.0        27         40.1        53.9
FP  sOn Vowth r.                                         .               3W3                     S.0         I9         1.7
5.3        5.5         5.0         5.2        3
Labor fore (1544)                        thousn             1,287         6        2.744     203,947   1.448,104    302,448
Agicutwme                             %ofltabot fhe            79         7S           -
ln&*Jndusy                                                     8           9
Fcmuc                                       *                  28         28          29         37          33         32
Fenale per 100 aWes
nAmba                                                        ..         87           _                      . _
Rwul                                       *                   .        123           -           _          -           -
NAT tAL RESOURCES
Aa                                      thou.m lk             713        753         733      23,046      38.12      2390
Desity                                 popjereq.h             5.0        4.0        10.0        20.         77.0       3S1
AgricuaiS Ind                          A rlandarea           44.         47.1       47.4        51.0        47.4       41.
Chane in ag_iodltlu had                   anmd%               0.1         0.0O       0.1         0.0        0U0         0.0
Aicultual land undr  lio.                   %                 0.0         0.1        0.1    -   S.J         13.7        U.6
Foreusz d woodland                      l, .ba                306        299         289       ol1         9.19?      5,9
lDeoreUaIi3o (uA)                                              .02       *0.2       .0.2                      - _
INCOME
Hou:bold inom
Sharof top 20%ofbAb&                   %of;                    -         43                         
Sh fboom40%bouho&                                                        It _         _    _
Share* otoeq 2_ fosod                                                     4           _           _          -           _
EXPF-NDtTMtt
Food                              .      %o(ODF                 .        22.7       25.8           _          _           _
Stuaps                                     *                             5.9        Si            _       ,   _
h4 sh li, dauk     '                                           - S10.0             12.8
Cereal ih  mai. s                                              45        164         100 *     7,3838     3          44.418
Food aid  cerels                    *..                                    5           3       2A444                  4.47
FoowpWwdouporc$a                        197948-100            100        138          83          94        122         101
Fertllusrouwwup6o.                        4Xkgi               2.0        11.0       18.0        145         47J        942
Shared   Cot       DP                    %ofODP               14.3       13.1        15.7       29.2        27 
Housig                                   %efODP                 -         5.8       7?.            _          -           _
Avgebousld si                       posoperbheold               _          4           _                      _
Uehen                                                    , _  _   _    _ 
Fuwlvi_uaoung                            %otOD?                 ..        4.8        03           ..          _      
Fud udpwer                               %Koop                  -         1.9        3.1           _
Enwerrwmnm oaperopits                  kg oeoanquv.           464        533         379         100        330       1.249
Houuholda with deOricity
Lerban                                                                                                         
Trwpod and    i                          % d      _                       3.9         3.8 _  _ _
Fited invnenLff trumpct quipmat                                ..         4.0         LI           .            
Totalr odleld h r                                              _          _-     3t.359           ..         _           _
L'VESTMENT LN HUMAN CAPTAL
Hedth
Acetob a  e                              %oip*          _                  -           a _                     a
Pplationperpissin                         p                 11.401     13.48      .11.290          _           a          a
Polaperp '.                                                  529        1.48 _       403
Populoperbabed                                 '                         300                    1.32_      1            09
Ac"tout  wat                             %pp_                            42.0        S0         3S4         7"1.
Ru'l. ;                                                        a        10          41.0        242        42.8
Jreby4io.thaupy(undar4)                %om                    _                     117         35         32           _
Eduattlo.
Ores .voumat rati
Seoodudy                             %ofrehot.qpop*             7          15         20          is         44          54
FeM                                         a                  3          10         14          14         37           _
PuplI4lie lo.pew"                     pupl     rr              51         48          44          39         39         23
todo. nriday                                        1 9         23         28                      20
PuplIeu'sadiingpede4                     %6Aofe o               -         96           -          4           _           -
Repea&wmerpdny                         s%oftota   l l                      2           2           a          -
mlliteray                           e%ofpq*(wls+)               _          _          27          S1         39
%o ftl (agels4)             _                     1            52        S2           a
Newapperobdo                            per hou.7                           2 _ .S
Souma World     LW=uieua ESmim  Dhbauf      1993



Aunez III
Zdab: oP I.d            t P ewr  tog8   paUe 6 of 6
-~~~~~~~~ s-                                                #
POVERTY
UpWpwpovetylins                       hU                                   -          -                         _
HIad aWii'dex                                                                 64 -                   -
lower pm"y  m                         .i        t b.. -g                      9      a
Hesd W x                             %tpp    ,                                 4           ..                  -
GNPpermpk                               us$              20     0              40         350       390       I.4O
SHORT TERM tNCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled u    wqm       bilm,.                            .. _                  ..
Unskiled tl  wa".
Rural tU= ofbae
Cww  p.iedm                           19M7.100             S          9       1.431
Food                                                                          7 6 -    .. .
VtbAn
Rural                                                    _                     .,_                             .
SOCIAL IDICATORS
Public*ixpwAmnas*(m                      GooP              -                     3          -                    -
Pjrimaa                            %01aga .               53         9?         95         70        113       100
maIm                                                     l9$105                           76        122       104
an.                                     *                44         so         St         40        106        98
Morality
lnfmaualk                          lk;Uvlibbt           1ii         94        106        104         70        40
U     lit- '                                                                  176        177         9o        $3
,Maaiawl                                                                        sow~  .      40       73        70
On DP-                                                                         66         35         8174
*                          CA6 Ct 
child edm      ( umda3)                           F 
TOW                                                      44          0         41         51         43        47
FPazu1mEmn                                              LOT .0     1.0?       107        1.04      0us        1.0
ToW flty tb                         hbb      i            d          4         6d         74 37                3.3
mataa moaty au                     100000 M        _         _    _     _ _
*   Population growth raft eftwr                               a                    Priary caearimoat
sj                                    2001                                   t0o
4                                                                             so3
3                                                                             60
2                                                                   40~~~~~~~~~0
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
O                                      0
-W6f    s"70          m -d7                                 an L V                        I
Zand"~~~~~~~~~~~ .  :v~
..-L. -.w.                                           -i... -ugEaedf



tS X t[tV S                X~~~~~~~
|}  g [||.35    [ g t E 3 3 5 g  @~~~~~S
5~~~ | -g5  0                         0      
tS  !gtg               §      



Annex IV
page 2 of 8
Procurement
1.    Except as provided in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 below, contracts
for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and tI of the "Guidelines  for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the modifications set forth
in paragraph 2 below.
(a)   For  fixed-price  contracts,  the  invitation  to  bid
referrgd to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two prediselosed correction factors acceptable co
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the* procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Association, with such modifications thereto as the Association
shall have agreed to be necessary, shall be used. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Association,
bidding documents based on other international recognized standard
forms agreed with the Association shall be used.
2.    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
n2.8 Notification and Adyertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaps



Annex IV
page 3 of 8
of gentral circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(1)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(iM)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of   wide   international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local reprosentatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:                                         4
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
3.    Goods procured under international competitive procedures
shall be exompted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third
party inspection firm.
4.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of les than S1.OOO,OOO shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement proeodures for the lportation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association; and
(b) by other purchasers, in accordance with established
cotmurcial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
oan the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting proceduros acceptib.'e to the Association may be used
whero considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.



Annex IV
page 4 of 8
S     Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
6.    Spare parts and other proprietary items may be procured
directly from suppliers in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
7.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph I of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submfssion to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of thi advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a ccntract are to be made out of the proceeds
of the Special Account, such copies together with the o;her
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
8.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 4, 5
and 6 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect thereof, such documentation and information as the
Association  may  reasonably  request   to  support  withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract. Where payments unter a
contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account,
the documentation and the intormation to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
9.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 8 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.



Annex IV
page 5 of 8
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expentitures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) 1n respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the exe-ution of the Second Program and to be
financed out of such proc6eds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the As*ociation by
notice to the Borrower:
Grou2           Subarouo        Descrigtion of Items
112                --          Alcoholic beverages
121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                --           Radioactive and
associated materials
667                --           Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
718             718.1           Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors



Annex IV
page 6 of 8
Group           Subgrouo       Description of Items
728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(d)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(e)   expenditures  for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(f)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 14,500,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.    Withdrawals  for  expenditures  under  contracts  for  the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $S00,000 equivalent
may be required by the Association upon the basis of statements of
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 28,900,000, unless the Association
shall be satisfied, aftar an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Second Program; (b) that the actions described



Ann" IV
pag 7 of 8
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken; and (c) the macro-
economic policy framework of the Borrower to consistent with the
objectives of the Second Program.
5.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such comitments shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 50,500,000, unless the Association
shall be eatisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Association: (a) wkth the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Second Program; (b) that the actions described
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been takent and (c) the macro-
economic policy framework of the Borrower Is consistqnt with the
o'sjectives of the Second Program.
6.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraphs 4 and
5 above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, vithin 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.



AnIxIV
pae 8 of 8
Estmated
(In USS Mmin)
FY94                70           70
FY95                30           100



Wa~ ~ :                                                cn  -  --a SE tlg,§x" i
=-..                                  b g:a t ^    nnaiAnnnnnnn              Z
7. §_                                     -: 8   i---a- o                   : 
8-                                               -   ftg2"  £i£££2'
~~   a                                                               0       >;;,,.  g
X  w  .                  g                                                             X   , e-  -  C 
S   g          < * !E         E                                      , g t~~~4H4NI4NNNdN* 
ffi            ~~~. 1%                                          *0
I              N                                 N                      i i
00SS;a;SS;!    @,@e0~~~~~~~~~~~*
§80sEEE§asa!~~~



Annex V
page 2 of 2
ZAMIA: Statement of IFC Investments
as of April 30, 1993
GOXR                                         es s -                             us NM          -
1981/84    UIrA WM. EJD           LS.             TUW1                   22.4           -.-      22.4
1919      MHSST    (ZAMiNA)                       WD/F                    6.2-                    8.2
1988      GWEUBE VALLEY DEY.0T                      30/9                   .7           0.8       4.5
1965      IGWE1 DBVEL01H   RP.                     0FOO/1000              1.8           0.3       2.1
lXOESSM
196sl6    ZAD  TM==S                              TUTSE                  10.?           _.       10.l
192       lhtL C"AIYY OF ZAMBIA auI&HDf E4                                3.7        ' 0.6        4.3
1983280    ZOQ                                    ICUIIG                 53.1           -.-      S3.1
1978/75    CM= PZODUC  LZD.                         JSTIC 15a0            0.9           0.2       1.1
1976      DBZ 113K OF ZDIA                        DE CZYUO  FIRA          -.-           0.5       0.3
1973/72    ZhAIA B     ME                         SEE1                                  0 0.2       3
TOTAL ORSS CI4ZTS                                            IJ6 6                    109.2
LES: CANCULA2101U ucUHM ADJ1UGTSD WAUimnT.
.XT-OFS. & SDICItE 5*ALE                                      75.3                    z77.7
TOTAL FC ciUn!S                                               31.3           0.2       31.5
TOTAL. UDISBURED                                               6.5           0.0       6.5
0O.L DISWtSED                                                 24.8           0.2       25.0



Annex VI
page 1 of 3
Capd                         4o.
Co.psa           S         _                   K           5    A       t    X                    %       No.      %    A
AF                                        1      3I WOW    0.3%    0.3%       23.000    0.4%    0.4%         185    0.3%    0.31
Crshai StaCE Sk Lf.jUd                    I      03.000   0.1%    0.4%        97.000   0.1%    O.J%         234    0.2%    0.6%
Coas4Odated TyTV Svviau LUi               I      300031 .= 0.3%    O.%       493.000   0.7%      1.2%       339   0.6%      1.2%
'Ea1a .     l Licd                        l       0,000   0.1 %    0.8%        3.000   0.0%      1.2%       129    0.2%    1.4
JMwiaungs Caaustiani Lisai                         S 5.=   0.0%    0.1%        4.000   0.0%      1.3%        34    0.1%     1.3
*N1432M3Q.!=Ctr  COMPYt                         toLS. 1UI  a  104,00   045                      t.3%        ISO    0.3% 0.3
{        c.-.,..i. C u.la;  Licd24.00)   0.2%    1.0£7                  42.0     0.1%     1.4J        63    0.1%    2.0%
Zaabia Clay lsr4usies La 1                           ..O  0    0.0%    1.0%   i   5.000   0.0%    1.4%         0    0.0%    2.0%
Auo Care Limited                          t       34.000   0.1%4   2.l%        41.000   0.1Q     1.5%        145    0.3%    2.2%
C*eauwell Dry cleva                       I       13.000   0.0%    t.l%  j     1.000   0.0%       1.S%        36    0.1%    2.3%
CoIs ell SSe2u    _                       I      32.000   0.0%      1.tI,      S.000    0.0%     1.5%        29    0.1%     2.3%
C.ewetl Pharmamutiests LiI.i              £ t    3.000   0.0%    1.21         23.000   0.0%      1.6%        97    0.2%    2.5
M.-ah Zsmb;a Lickedi      *               t     330.O0    0.3%    t.$3%      193.000   0.3%      t.9%       282    0.5%     3.0
N360;31io;:Dt:sA  Cta* Cosety Like;       t       S48.0300    0.15    1.64    32.000   0.0%      1.9%       134    0.21 3%
i;orgroup Name LQictd                     t      111.000   9.1%    1.7T       47.00    0.1%      2.0%'      -94    0.2Z    3.S
MatbI Ps@ditePe                                 0    0.0%    1.7?%      160.000   0.2%    2.2%           9    0.0%    3.5%.
1Z7azbis Maltsp Lickied                   t            0    0.0%    1.75       24WA0    0.0%     2.3%         80    0.1%    3.6%
1Z7-1ia Cancks Limited                    I       90.000   O.A%     1.8C      147.000    0.2%    2.$%        214    0.41%   4.0! *
Z.,a Za3m6, Limited                       tI      14.e00)   O.-IS    £.       c11.00- 0.0%       2.5%        23    0.0%     4.1%i
4z.- oSugar Comp,ay Limiti               21  S.938.0X    3.3%       .11%                 U%4944 0 st .5%  5,736   10.5%   14.6%Z
Z3=bia Low1l Pr£ortie                    I      .16.2,079    1.0%    4.0%    4.30.719    6.3%   16.8%       789    1.4%    16.0%
Zambia Hoe.:ultal? Po&wu                 2       49.569   0.0%    4.%t        19.425   0.0%    16.S%         71   0.1%   16.1Z
Zamtbis EaS ina  & C.en                  2      309,37.)   0.3*    4.3%      540.330   0.5%    17.3%        532    1.0%    17.4%
7Zambia CoU Soge Cap                    a      593.193    0.%    4.3%        47,971    0.1%   17.4%        462   0.3%   18.t%
Zambia CaSb.w Compmoy                    2 a.4"    0.05    48                 97.000    0.1%   17.6%        155    0.3%   1t.3
tZamba Brweries                           2     .2K.=9    2%    9.#?%   1.030,391    t.3%   19.1%          1.654    3.0%   21.3Z.
IZazb:a Ariuture Develo_pme               2      254.989   0.3%    9.8%         5,37S    0.1%    19.2%     999    1.8%   23.1%j
-taiw )illiat Limited                    a    1.0119."    0.$S  t106         243.174    0.4%    19.6%       254   0.5%   23.6 %
RP9P Limitad                             2    t.40a.1to    .215   1.%         MAU.0     0.2%    19.6%       564    1.0%   24.6%
Pe-Oisua Oil tcdugrAa                    2    t.340.000    1.3%   13,1%    2.2t4.623    3.2%    23.2%       316   0.9%   25.SS
jc.;17.si<.;cMiU            .            2      46.00    0.4%   23.St          3.000    0.1%S   23.1%              0.0%   25.6%
.;atio,at Tob*o Compa                     2                0.0%   13.5%                  0.0%    23.1%              0.0%   25.6%
i.'StioO Silluis Ceepeny                  2    3.137.30     4.3%   1Y.8%     .197,.90$    4.7%   27.3%     1,147    3.4%   29.0%1
J'.ouialt Bre*eries                       2      937.813    0.3%   IS O4%     I89.4    0.3%   28.1%          847    1.6d5   30.5S
3    m Fa Lr iuid                       2                0.0;%   18.4%                0.0%   23.1%               0.0%   30.5%
U4poap.. 0'evolopet Cempy                2      431.3j2   0.4%   t1.9%       58T.539   0.4%   25.7%       1.24S    2.3%    32.S%
Metat F2 b s oi Za*b                      2    2.43.710    2.2%   21.2%       708.414    1.0%   29.7%        420    0.8%   33.6%
tusaks Ea4iomiag Company                  2       108.411t   OJ%   21.76      407.3s    0.6%   30.3%         630    1.25   34.8%
lList Compsay of Zambia                   2                0.0%   21.79                 0.0%    30.3%               0.0%    34.3%
L[;>CO                                   X2                0.0%   21.%                  0.0%    30.3%              0.0%   34.eo
sKpit; Olass Pr.Wuc-                     2      422.173   0.4%   22.06       102.044   0.1%    30.4%        230    0.4%   35.2%
!XKia.owd'a Lizzi'%4                      3    2,S2t29     2.0%   24.1%       4n.,    0.7%   3t.1%          634    1.3%   36.4%
!XCabwe aM1d                                     440.000   0.4%   24.45        94000   .01IS   31.3%                0.0%   36.4
"Jtam's Md!ad                             a      91.000   0.8%   23.2%       3202.000   0.3%   31.4%                0.0%   36.4
'ledevo Allti LimitUd                     a    1.4.719    t.4%   U.4%         4.OS<t   0.7%    31.3%        569    1.0%   37.S
D 3ir7 P-o4* 8ow                          2      773.000   0.%   27.-2       40.000   0.7%    33.0%               0.0%   3tS
ChieM23$a ChOqS M1i*ll                    2      9 34.000   0.83   3S.0%      202.000   O.3%    33.3%              0.0%   37.-%
1'hltlus% Caemut                         1    2.13#000    I.$%   29.8S        9SS.24    1.4%   34.6%        883    1.6%   39.1%
iChzeo Milling                            a       43.100    0.0%   29.8S        3.000    0.0%   34.4%              0.0%   39.1
lAnsebope Wfin3 2    t1.018.00    0.8%   80.7%                                23,000   0.3%   35.0%                0.0%   39.11
lAmilisutaed Ifilltng                           8.St370.51    0.7   t.4% .    348t8   0.1%  S3-.%           452   0.8%   39.9%



Annex VI
page 2 of 3
cItal                       NO.
TIN3,W                      E.aptoy.d        _         EspIoy.
Ceop      K eBOO           A mu S      K aoo M D            e. X%    xo            Acc  %
Zambia Natioua1 Woae&   M                       19s,04    t.3%   32.7%        23.000    0.4%    35.4%       1,037    1.9%   41.8%
S    Bakig Company                         3      496,547   0.4%   33.2%       12,057    0.0%    35.4%       400   0.7%   42.6%
KfuTextiub                                 S    1.025.629    0.9%   34.0%    1,28,014    1.9%    37.3%     2.151    3.9%   46.5%
Conaumer Btayiss Cexp                      3    4.436,489   3.7%   37.7%    1.513.832    2.2%    39.5%      1.670   3.1%   49.6%
jZambia i4ational Commercial eal           4    4,118.409    3.4%   41.1%    2,314,625    5.4%   42.9%      2,3S3    4.3%   $3.9%
iZambeui Sawmills                          4       64,483    0.1%   41.2%       94.060    0.1%    43.1%       267   0.5Iw  54.4%
!ZAL Eleator                               4                 0.0%   41.2%                 0.0%    43.1%              0.0%   S4.4I
bUEC Fuss LAi..                      4        7.947   0.0%   41.2%          633    0.0%    43.1%         17   0.Q%   54.4%f
IWcN aga Farms                             4                 0.0%   41.2%                 0.0%    43.1%              0.0%   54.4
tNstiona RoNm  Stres                      4    2.332.944    t.9%   43.1%      S54.783    0.8%    43.9%       930    1.7%   56.1%.
IMULuagusbiTea"VOe.                        4                 0.0%   43.1%                 0.0%    43.9%              0.0%   56.1%j
1111L Coaswucio.                           4                 0.0%   43.1%                 0.0%    43.9%              0.0%   56.1%I
ILublead Limited                           4       43.425    0.0%   43.2%       93,005    0.1%    44.0%        35   0.1%   56.2G|
iLake Routs                                4       35.032   0.0%   43.2%        33.309    0.0%    44.1%              0.0%   56.2%
'Aica Botnd                                4                 0.0%   43.2%                 0.0%    44.1%              0.0%   56.2%
IZ3mbi* Seel sd Buidiag Supplies           S      566.775    0.3%   43.7%      207.457    0.3%    44.4%       525    1.0%   57.1%
lR.firctios Placernat                      5                 0.0%   43.7%                 0.0%    44.44              0.0%   57.1%
lNcadaal Howtl Dvlopent Corp               5    1.291,974    1.1%   44.8%    2,550.094    3.7%    4*S1%      1.666   3.1%   63.2%
lN4oda Drus Comspay                        s      31S.939   0.3%   45.0%       245.383    0.4%    48.5%       402   0.7%   60.9
IMWs_imSbnnsLmted                          5    1.314.241    1.0%   44.0%       92.993    0.1%    43.6%       494   0.9%   6t.8
ucdclawas"s Zoo 4A Boauia Gawd.            5                 0.0%   46.0%                 0.0%    4S.6%              0.0%   61.81
lM(P*i#elamPaPrperBsi                                        0.0%   46.0%                 0.0%    48.6%              0.0%   61.3
|ML Ealgewi  aWd T..U"  .                 5                 0.0%  . 46.01                0.0%    48.6%              0.0%   61.8%
IMBMACO hwFaS                              s      134.239   0.1%   46.2%       1135.50    0.2%    43.3%       357   0.7%   62.5%
;aka l{      a e R                         $                 0.0%   44.2%                 0.0%    43.8%              0.0%   62.5%
IKaswbwa T.aCmpaey                               Itt,.432   0.1%   46.2%      143,539    0.2%    49.0%      1,118    2.1%   64.5%i
K   lbwlnudural Fabric                     5      482,95d   0.4%   46.7%      f05,41d    0.7%    49.7%       60S    1.1 Z   65.6%
BUPw.U Coastnr_ioe                         s                0.0%   46.7%                 0.0%    49.7%              0.0%   65.6%I
iZambia State Seouriy                      4                 0.0%   4".7%                 0.0%    49.7%              0.0%   65.6%I
jZmbiaState Propwew ty   peCatComp         6                 0.0%   46.7%                 0.0%    49.7%              0.0%   65.6Z%
Za2mbis Staw lotwseoeCponoe                6    2.971.247    2.5%   49.1%    3.7,65954    5.5%    55.2%     1,647   3.0%   68.7%?
Zsabi Stat Fiacin Compan                   6       92.993    0.1%   49.2%     108.810    0.2%   55.4%          8   0.0%   68.7%i
iZaabit Seed Com"ay                        6      $24,229   0.7%   49.9%      485,60    t.0%    56.4%               0.0%   6S.7%
Zambia;atiodal Buiig Scit                  tl     374,746    0.3%   50.2%    1.850,157    2.7%    59.1%      410   0.3I   69.4w
'Zambis CodiCoeps                          4       83.855   0.1%   50.3%        89,738    0.1%    59.2%       514   0.91%  70.4%
Uaited Bas Compay                          6    1.37.081    1.3%   51.6%    1.903.06     2.8%    62.0%     1.759   3.2%   73.6%
jstsat tainesdcMa Trum                     4                 0.0%   51.6%                 0.0%   62.0%               0.0%   73.6%
.Mpu&qSugu bour Co porion                  6       29.010    0.0%   51.6%       24,069    0.0%    62.1%        74   0.1%   73.7%
!lMi4Sco Small Mite                        4       1S.176    0.0%   51.6%       11.019    0.0%    62.1%       104   0.2%   73.9%
!Export andtIport Bank ofZasbi.            4       78,803    0.1%   51-7%      161.316    0.2%    62.3%              0.0%   73.9%
Developneat Beak of Zambia                 a                 0.0%   ft.7%                 0.0%    62.3%              0.0%   73.9%
,Co4iraot XHaula*                          4       97.8$8   0.6%   52.2%       23.$76    0.4%    62.7%        763   1.4%   75.5%
Arica tntercoutinectal tsrases'    -                         0.0%   52.21%                0.0%    62.7%              0.0%   75.3%
~Zambia Oxygenl L;asite67                         6_51.815   0.5%   52.8%     439.243    0.7%    63.4%       237   O.S%   75.9%
Zwmbis Emerald 1tad ie                     7        0.895    0.4%   53.2%      370,542    0.5%    63.9%       143   0.3%   76.1%
.Reserved M;inank Cetp.                    7       58 792   0.0%   W3.S%        42.445    O.t%   64.0%         45   0.1%   76.2%
tLuansw ladustriesLimimd                   I      330.206   0.3%  $53.%        "835    0.1%    64.1i%         165   0.3%   76.5%
'Kartba Ametbyst ukatint Limbted           I                 0.0%   53.5%                 0.0%    64.1%              0.0%   76.5%
iKariba.MieralsAamata  tMaketsig           I                 0.0%   53.5%                 0.0%    64.1%              0.0%   76.5%
ilCagem Mtinng                             7      139,443    0.1%   53.7%      100M990    0,1%    64.3%       241   0.4%   76.9%
iIetno@tig@eiital Travel imited           7?       74.807   0.1%   53.7%        20.563   0.0     64.3%               0.%   7&9



Annex VI
page 3 of 3
Caota                        No.
Turnover                    Employed                    Empl_     _ _
Compny                          Trnohe   Ilto00        %    Am= S        K000       %    Agcm%         No.      %    Acm u%
'i,e Radio & RerStWU                  7 1    32t,096    0.3%   54.0%       29,404    0.0%    64.4%        123    0.2%   77.1%
jZAF?ICO                              8      691,232    0.6Z   54.6%    1,252,317    1.S%    66.2%      1,943    3.6%   80.7%
!Rycus Heavy Haulage                  8                 0.0%    54.6%                0.0%    66.2%               0.0%   80.7%
¢ilEC Agencies                        S      921,644    0.S%   55.3%       31.710    0.0%    66.2%       167   0.3%   8.0%
Mines AirServies                    8a      449,00)   0.4%    53.7%    1.455.000    2.t%   68.4%         59    0.1%   81.1
w\UL Svwmil!izia azd loiuery           8                0.0%   55.7%                 0.0%    68.4%               0.0%    S1.1
.Macs3 Bsteries                       8      232,SI,)   0.2%   55.9%      179.716    0.3%    68.6%       247    0.5%   81.6%
'lado-Zambia Back Limited              8      270,965    0.2%   56.1%      !43.595    0.2%    68.S%       113    0.2%   81.8%
,DualooR Zambis                        8    2.923.569    2.4%   58.6%    1.261,261    1.8%    70.7%       448    0.8%   82.6%
iZamca:ro ZAmbis                       9      255.052    0.2%   53.3%      149.331    0.2%    70.9%              0.05   82.6%
,Zambia %atioaal Insurance Brokeen     9      124.347    0.1%   58.9%       19.037    0.0%    70.9P       285    0.5%   83.115
1Nittogea Chemicals                   9g   3,918,307    3.3%   62.2%    1,764.203    2.6%    73.5%       1.703    S.1%   S6.2
iNaticeal Airporu Coporatios           9      420,220    0.4%   62.5%    1,290.605    1.94   75.4%       1.088    2.0%   88.2%
i.MambsColleries                       9    1,113,147    0.9% _ 63.4%      916.092    1.3%   76.7%      1,500    2.8%   91.0
Livin&stoUMotorAsumblers              9      171,432    0.1%   63.6%      265.1SS   0.4%    77.1%                0.0%   91.0%I
Duca3 Qilbey & Mathesoa               9      555,411    0.5%   64.0%      290.661    0.4%    77.6%              0.0%   9L.0%F
'Ciro-tittis                           9       74,075    0.1%   64.1%       34,178    0.1%    77.6%              0.0%   9t.0%
'Aarosa Idustr' s                      9,       4,203   0.0%   64.1%         2,129   0.0O   771.'%               0.0%   91.0%,
2.mcoProperties                        )       70,178    0.1%   64.2%      389,986    0.6%    7S.2S       124    0.2%   91 i
'Zamtube Re-refiners                 10 00.0    64.2%                                0.0%    78.2%              0.0%   91.2%t
;N1EC Overseas ServioesZambia         10      464,157    0.4%   64.5%       68.321   O.t%   78.3%         128    0.2%   91.5%j
llndeco Estate Develo,oeutComp        10      251.202    0.2%   64.8%       68,680    0.1%    78.4%       881    1.6%   93 1%'
iEagineerang Services Corp            10      191,946    0.2%   64.9%      130,211    0.2%    78.65       6O4    1.1%   94.2xl
:BP Zambia Limitad                    10   12,941,401   10.8%   75.7%    4.336.166    6.3%    84.9%       560    1.0%   95.20
'Zambia Natioa Shipping Coop          11                0.0%    75.7%                0.0%   44.9%                0.0%   95.2
Zambia N;ationa1 Broaduating Corp     11                 0.0%   75.7%                 0.0%   84.9%               0.0%   95.2%
!Zambia Housing Development Fund     11                 0.0%   75.7%                 0.0%    84.9%              0.0%   95.2%;
Zaimbia Cocrete Limitd                11      155,317    0.1%   75.8%       64.507   0.1%    85.0%        1S7    0.3%   95.5SI
!Zambia Airways Corporation           11    8,703,200    7.3%   83.1%    6,504,092    9.5%   94.5%       1,971    3.6%   99.1%|
National Ar Charters                  tt    1,399,669    1.2%   84.2%     (196.259)  -0.3%   94.2%        143    0.3%   99.4%|
NEMACO M Limited                     t1      968.171    0.8%   85.0%    1,482,098    2.2%   96.4%         150    0.3%   99.6%
ME'.tACO Tr4nS Limitd. London         11   11,194,328    9.3%   94.4%    2.015.506    3.0%    99.4%        69    0.1I%   9.3%
M ENIACO Trading tan., USA            11    3.918.680    3.3%   97.6%      134,282    0.2%    99.6%         2    0.0%   99.8
NENMACO Servims limited               11                 0.0%   97.6%                 0.0%    99.6%              0.0%   99.8%1
!ACIP (Zambia)                        11    2,830.562    2.4%   100.0%     301,293    0.4%  01(.0%  ,    124    0.2%  100.0%
Totals(Kwaclhn000)                        120.021.5S6                   6S.315.441                  I   4,534
Exclujing:
Z,:C%:
ludeni Petroleum Reflney Conipany
T=a3ama Pipelines
Zima*l Division
PT C
zEsC.O
Zambia Ratlwzys



0
Annex VII
page 1 of 19
ZANEIA PRIVATISATION AGENCY
TRANCHE 2 COMPANTIES STATUS REPORT
Introduction
The purpose of this paper is to present the status and timetable
for the privatisation of the Tranche 2 companies.   The work
completed by the ZPA Secretariat in preparing the companies for
sale is discussed below.
1.   Amalcamated Milling Companv Limited
Amalgamated Milling Company Limited comprises three
companies nationalised in 1986.   Although the companies
were formally merged to form Amalgamated Milling Company
Limited within INDECO Limited, these companies were de-
amalgamated during 1992. Therefore, the comipanies will be
privatised as separate entities. The three companies are:
*   Ghirardi Milling Company
*   Robinhood Milling Company
*   EC Milling Company
At the time of nationalisation, the owners of the companies
were paid compensation and accepted such compensation as
was paid, with the exception of the owner of EC Milling who
received additional compensation through a Parliamentary
decision.
There has, however, been some correspondence between the
Government and lawyers acting on behalf of the former
owners of Ghirardi and EC Milling which suggests that the
former owners will be given the right of first refusal.
The former owners of three of the 1986 nationalised milling
companies, Antelope, Jamas and Olympic, challenged the
nationalisation and the consequence of the Supreme Court
ruling is that ownership did not pass to the Government.
This may also have a bearing on the privatisation strategy
for the other 1986 nationalised companies.
The ZPA is currently collecting information as to the legal
claims of the former owners and the intention of the
Government in this regard.
Once ZPA has clarified the issues for each of the
companies, the intention is to obtain a formal policy
statement from the Government to advise whether the former
owners should be given the right of first refusal or
whether the mills should be offered on a competitive bid
basis.



Annex VII
page 2 of 19
The timetable for the transfer of ownership has not been
set as the procedures are not under the direct control of
the ZPA. The dates for privatisation will be set once the
ZPA has obtained a policy decision from the Government.
2.   Antelope Wholesale Merchants Limited
The company was nationalised in 1986 and is presently being
managed by Mulungushi Investments Limited.   The former
owners challenged the nationalisation and the case was
heard in the Supreme Court. The consequence of the Supreme
Court ruling of 24 August, 1992 is that ownership did not
pass to the Government.
The company will be privatised as a result of the Supreme
Court ruling of 24 August, 1992 whereby the Court ordered
- that there will be restitution-and -return of-the compani-es
to the shareholders.
it is the intention of ZPA to keep track of developments in
terms of the procedures set out by the Court and the
outcome of decisions to monitor the transfer of the company
to the former owners.
The timetable for the transfer of ownership has not been
set as the procedures are not under the direct control of
the ZPA.  The role of ZPA is to monitor the process to
ensure that the company is handed back to its previous
owner in accordance with the Court procedure.
3.   Chico Milling
Tne company was nationalised in 1986 and the former owner
was paid compensation. The privatisation process for Chico
Milling will therefore be the same as that for the three
companies listed under Amalgamated Milling Company Limited.
4.   Chilanaa Cement Limited
Chilanga Cement is a public company. The company is the
sole producer of cement in Zambia. There are two cement
works at Chilanga and Ndola.              ,,t
The shareholders in Chilanga Cement are:
Indeco              60 %
CDC                 24 %
Zamanglo             6 %
Others              10 %
Indeco also owns 7 per cent redeemable non-cumulative
preference shares amounting to K 2.6 million.
Zamanglo Industrial Corporation (Zamic) and Comwonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) have pre-emptive rights.



Annex VII
page 3 of 19
Chilanga Cement Limited will be privatised as a whole with
a minimum of thirty per cent public participation.  The
public flotation for Chilanga Cement is likely to be done
in 1993.
Negotiations will be held with the minority shareholders,
in accordance with the shareholders agreement, to sell a
portion of the company to them, so that they hold a
majority share.   The minority shareholders will also be
requested to forego their pre-emptive rights so that the
Zambia Privatisation Agency can publicly float a portion of
the company.
The company privatisation study for Chilanga Cement was
completed by the Nordic Consulting Group in association
with KPMG Peat Marwick, Zambia in February, 1993.   The
study was funded by NORAD, the Norwegian -ad Organisation.--
These consultants are presently assisting ZPA in the
implementation of the privatisation process for Chilanga
Cement.                                     c
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                   January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale (obtained)      March, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale (obtained)   April, 1993
Board approval for commencement of
negotiations                                     May, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                     June, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                    August, 1993
Public flotation                            November, 1993
5.   Chimanga Chanpa Milling
This company was nationalised in 1986 and is presently
being managed by Mulungushi Investments Limited.   The
former owners challenged the nationalisation and the case
was heard in the High Court. The consequence of the High
Court ruling of January, 1993 is that the company should be
handed back to the former owners.
It is the intention of ZPA to keep track ofdevelopments in
terms of the procedures set out by the Court and the
outcome of decisions to monitor the transfer of the company
to the former owners.
The timetable for the transfer of ownership has not been
set as the procedures are not under the direct control of
the ZPA.   The role of ZPA is to monitor the process to
ensure that the company is handed back to its previous
owner in accordance with the Court procedure.



Annex VII
page 4 of 19
6.   Dairy Produce Board
The ZPA has not commenced the privatisation work for the
Dairy Produce Board (DPB). The terms of reference for the
privatisation study has recently been completed and are
currently being considered by the DPB, DANIDA (the fundiAlg
agency) and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Fisheries.
It is expected that the study will be completed in
September/October 1993.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                   January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale              October, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale           November, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
January, 1994
Commencement of negotiations                S'ebruary, 1994
Conclusion of negotiations                        May, 1994
7.  Indeco Milling Limited
The company has maize milling plants in Ndola, Mkushi,
Mansa, Luangwa and Kasama and Mongu. The company, which is
100 per cent owned by the Government, will be privatised
after a reorganisation so as to sell the mills as separate
units. The mode of sale to be used will be competitive bid
for each mill.
The company privatisation study for Indeco Milling was
completed by Res a Co, in association with Cavmont,in
November,  1992.   The study was funded by the Germans,
through GTZ, the German Technical Cooperation Agency.
The company study is currently being updated in-house at
ZPA.   The main work to be completed is to update the
confidential information memoranda and to restructure the
financial and other information by individual mill.
The privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale (obtained)     March, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale (obtained)   April, 1993
Advertisement                                    July, 1993
Tender documentation issued                   August, 1993
Receipt of bids                             November, 1993
Evaluation of bids                          February, 1994
Board approval to commence negotiations
with top two bidders                          March, 1994
Negotiations commence                           March, 1994
Negotiations concluded                           June, 1994



Annex VII
page 5 of 19
8.   Jamas Millina
The company was nationalised in 1986 and is presently being
managed   by  Mulungushi   Investments   Limited.        The
privatisation process for Jamas Milling will therefore be
the same as that for Antelope Wholesale Merchants Limited.
The company will be privatised as a result of the Supreme
Court ruling of 24 August, 1992 whereby the Court ordered
that there will be restitution and return of the Companies
to the shareholders.
9.   Kabwe Milling
The company was nationalised in 1986. The former owner, an
Italian, had offered the company to the Government prior to
the nationalisation announcement as he wished to leave
Zambia. Before the sale could take place, however, the
company was nationalised. The owner received compensation
through the Italian Embassy as he had left'Zambia by the
time the nationalisation was completed.
It is unlikely that the former owner will want to
repurchase the company, given the circumstances.   There
have not been any legal claims on ownership and therefore
it is likely that the company will be privatised by
competitive bid.
The ZPA will however still seek legal advice and obtain a
policy decision from the Government as with the other
companies nationalised in 1986 prior to embarking on the
privatisation through competitive bid.
The timetable for the transfer of ownership has not been
set as it is not certain whether the procedures are under
the direct control of the ZPA.
10.  Kafironda Limited
Kafironda Limited, whose head office is in Mufulira, is
engaged in manufacturing of blasting explosives and
accessories and trading in imported accessories.
The shareholders in Kafironda Limited ar.;:
54.353% - ZIMCO
30.580% - Covilink Limited, UK
15.067% - Cobar Limited, UK
The minority shareholders have pre-emptive rights and it is
likely that the privatisation will be done through
negotiations with the minority shareholders.



Annex VII
page 6 of 19
The company privatisation study will be done in the second
half of 1993. -The terms of reference are currently being
prepared.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                   January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                   May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                June, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
October, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                November, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                  February, 1994
Possible public flotation or transfer to
Privatisation Trust Fund                      March, 1994
11.  Kapiri Glazs Products Limited.
Kapiri Glass Limited. whose head office is in Kapiri
Mposhi, is engaged in manufacturing glass tontainers and
glassware.
The shareholders in Kapiri Glass Limited are:
91.07% - INDECO (ZIMCO subsidiary)
6.38% - Coutinho Caro
2.55% - ZNPF
The minority shareholders have pre-emptive rights and it is
likely that the privatisation will be done through
negotiations with the minority shareholders.
The company privatisation study will be done in the second
half of 1993. The terms of reference are currently being
prepared.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                   May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                June, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negoti4tions
October, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                November, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                  February, 1994
Possible public flotation or transfer to
Privatisation Trust Fund                     March, 1994
12. Lukanca Investment and Development comnany Limited
Lukanga Investment and Development Company Limited CLIDCO)
has 61,000 hectares of land in M4pongwe of which only 30,000
hectares is good arable land. The company is engaged in
tobacco production.



Annex VII
page 7 of .19
The shareholders of LIDCO are:
36% - Zambia State Insurance Corporation
24% - Development Bank of Zambia
35% - FMO ( Dutch)
5% - HVA t Dutch)
The minority shareholders have pre-emptive rights.   The
preparation of the company for privatisation will be done
by ZPA staff and in-house consultants.   The ZPA has not
commenced the privatisation work, as yet.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale               October, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale            November,-1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
January, 1994
Commencement of negotiations                 Vebruary, 1994
Conclusion of negotiations                      April, 1994
13. Lint Comnany of Zambia Limited
The ZPA has not commenced the privatisation work for Lint
Company  (,LINTCO).    The  terms  of  reference  for  the
privatisation study are being prepared and it is likely
that the study will be funded by NORAD.
It is expected that the study will be completed in
September/October 1993.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale               October, 1993
Cabir.et approval for mode of sale           November, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
January, 1994
Commencement of negotiations                 February, 1994
Conclusion of negotiations                      April, 1994
14. Lusaka EniineerinM Comnany Limited (LENCO)
The company is engaged in the manufacture and fabrication
of metal products such as door and window frames,
furniture, truck and bus bodies, water tanks, ploughs, and
galvanised roofing nails.
The shareholders in LENCO are:
60% - ZIM.CO
20% - Intersomer SPA, Italy
20% - Piacenza Rimorchi SPA, Italy



Annex VII
page 8 of 19
The minority shareholders have pre-emptive rights and it is
likely that the privatisation will be done through
negotiations with the minority shareholders.
The company privatisation study will be done in the second
half of 1993. The terms of reference are currently being
prepared.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                   January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                   May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                June, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
October, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                November, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                  February,--1994
Possible public flotation or transfer to
Privatisation Trust Fund                     March, 1994
15. Metal Fabricators of Zambia Limited
Metal Fabricators of Zambia Limited is a private company.
The company is a manufacturer of copper rod, power and
telecommunications cables and extruded products.    The
company's head office is in Luanshya.
The shareholders of ZAMEFA are:
Indeco                        51%
Phelps Dodge                  20 %
Zamanglo                      10%
Meridien Investments           10 %
Bikana International            9 %
The minority shareholders have pre-emptive rights.   The
mode of sale for ZAMEFA is an initial offer of a portion of
the Government's shareholding to allow the minority
shareholders  to  become  majority  shareholders.    The
Government will retain thirty per cent for public
participation.
Negotiations will be held with the minority shareholders to
sell a portion of the company to them, so that they hold a
majority share. This will be done i-A accordance with the
shareholders agreement.   The minority shareholders will
also be requested to forego their pre-emptive rights so
that the Zambia Privatisation Agency can publicly float
thirty per cent of the company. The public flotation for
ZAMEFA will not be done in 1993 and it is planned therefore
that the minority shares are held in the Privatisation
Trust Fund planned to be set up in 1993.



Annex VII
page 9 of 19
The company privatisation study for ZAMEFA was completed in
April, 1993. The study was done by the Nordic Consulting
Group in association with KPMG Peat, Marwick Mitchell. The
study was funded by NORAD, the Norwegian Aid Agency.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale (obtained)     March, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale (obtained)   April, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
May, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                     June, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                     August, 1993
Transfer of shares to the Privatisation
Trust Fund                                November, 1993
16.  Mtonawe Development Comwany Limited
Mpongwe farms 4 000 hectares of crops in' Ndola rural.
Principal crops are maize, soya beans, irrigated wheat,
coffee and tobacco.   The company has title to 33 000
hectares of uncleared land.
The company is a 50:50 joint venture between Commonwealth
Development Corporation and ZIMCO.   The agreements were
finally signed on 26 January, 1993, although discussions
had commenced some three years previously.
The company is already fifty per cent private.  CDC has
indicated their willingness to invest further in the
development of the company. It is CDC policy to realise
its investment in companies like Mpongwe Development
Company by offering its shares for sale to private
individuals or institutions on a willing buyer/willing
seller basis once development is complete.
Mpongwe requires additional investment for development.
Additional investment will be sought through privatisation
so as to dilute the Government's investment to bring its
equity holding to below 50 per cent.   The Government's
shares will then be held in the Privatis«tion Trust Fund
for public flotation once the company is fully developed.
The privatisation timetable has not been set as, now that
the shareholders' agreement has been signed the company is
not in urgent need of new investment.   In the fourth
quarter of 1993, discussions will be held with CDC to
assess the investment needs and the need for an additional
private investor to finance the new investment.



Annex VII
page 10 of 19
17.  Nanaa Farms Limited
Nanga Farms occupies a total of 8 800 hectares; 2 200 of
which is irrigable and 6 600 suitable for grazing.
Agreements were signed on 26 January, 1993, although
discussions had commenced at the time of incorporation.
The agreements provide for CDC to hold 76.2 per cent of the
issued share capital and for ZIMCO to hold 23.8 per cent.
This means that the company is essentially private.
CDC has indicated their willingness to invest further in
the development of the company.   It is CDC policy to
realise its investment in companies like Nanga Farms by
offering its shares for sale to private individuals or
institutions on a willing buyer/willing seller basis once
development is complete.-             -    -      --
The position is that the company is de facto private and
therefore the shares owned by the Government could be held
in the Privatisation Trust Fund for public flotation once
the company is developed.
The timetable for the transfer of sh.ares to the
Privatisation Trust Fund will be completed once the
Privatisation Trust Fund has been set up.
18.  National Tobacco ComManv Limited
The privatisation of the National Tobacco Company Limited
will comprise the sale of the tobacco processing
operations. The privatisation strategy for the sale of the
processing plant will be to offer the company to the
tobacco growers.
The company privatisation study for the tobacco processing
plant will be completed in May, 1993.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                   January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale           *,  August, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale          September, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
November, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                November, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                  February, 1994
19.  National Breweries Limited
National Breweries is a private company.  It is the sole
producer of Chibuku white beer. The head office is located
in Kitwe and the company has breweries in 14 other
locations in Zambia.



Annex VII
page II of 19
The shareholders of National Breweries are:
Indeco               51 %
Lonrho               49 %
Lonrho has pre-emptive rights. National Breweries Limited
is to be privatised by holding negotiations with  the
minority shareholders to sell a portion of the share
capital so that they become majority shareholders.   The
company w-ill have a minimum of thirty per cent public
participation.   The public flotation could only be done
after the company has been changed into a public company.
The company privatisation study for National Breweries was
completed by Arthur D. Little in November, 1992. The study
was funded by the Germans, through GTZ, the German
Technical Cooperation Agency.-
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale (obtained)       March, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale (obtained)   April, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
July, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                   August, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                    October, 1993
Transfer of shares to the Privatisation
Trust Fund                                 December, 1993
20. National Milling Comoany Limited
National Milling, a private company, is the largest milling
company in Zambia. The principal activities of the company
are milling of maize and wheat, the manufacture of stock
feeds and the trading of salt and rice. The company has
two plants in Lusaka, one each in Kabwe and Livingstone and
depots in Lusaka and Kitwe.
The shareholders of National Milling are:
51.0% - INDECO (Subsidiary of ZIMCO)    **
24.5% - Spillers Ltd. (UK)
24.5% - Erabas B.V. (Netherlands)
Erabas B.V. and Spillers have pre-emptive rights. It is
likely that the mode of privatisation used for National
Milling Company Limited is that negotiations are held with
the minority shareholders to sell a portion of the company
to them, so that they hold a majority share. A minority
shareholding of a minimum of thirty per cent will probably
be offered for public participation.



Annex VII
page 12 of 19
The company privatisation study for National Milling was
completed by RES & Co. in consortium with Cavmont & Co. in
November 1992. The study was funded by GTZ.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                   May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                 June, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
July, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                September, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                    January, 1994
Transfer of shares to the Privatisation
Trust Fund                                    March, 1994
21.  Olympic Milling 
The company was nationalised in 1986 and is presently being
managed by Mulungushi Investments Limited:   The former
owners challenged the nationalisation and the case was
heard in the Supreme Court. The consequence of the Supreme
Court ruling of 24 August, 1992 is that ownership did not
pass to the Government.
The company will be privatised as a result of the Supreme
Court ruling of 24 August, 1992 whereby the Court ordered
that there will be restitution and return of the companies
to the shareholders.
It is the intention of ZPA to keep track of developments in
terms of the procedures set out by the Court and the
outcome of decisions to monitor the transfer of the company
to the former owners.
The timetable for the transfer of ownership has not been
set as the procedures are not under the direct control of
the ZPA.   The role of ZPA is to monitor the process to
ensure that the company is handed back to its previous
owner in accordance with the Court procedure.
22.  Premium Oil Industries Limited             ;.
The company manufactures vegetable oils, soaps, bakery fats
margarine, seed cake and crude glycerine.
Premium Oil is 100 per cent owned by the Government. The
privatisation strategy for the company is that it will sold
on a competitive bid basis.



Annex VII
page 13 of 19
The company privatisation study for ZADL was completed by
Luso Consult, in association with KPMG Peat Marwick,
Zambia, in November, 1992.
The company study is currently being updated in-house at
ZPA.  The main work to be completed is to update the
confidential information memoranda.
The privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                   January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                   May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                June, 1993
Advertisement                                  August, 1993
Tender documentation issued                 September, 1993
Receipt of bids                              January, 1994
Evaluation of-bids  ^                           March, -1994
Board approval to commence negotiations
with top two bidders                          April, 1994
Negotiations commence                       '    May, 1994
Negotiations concluded                         August, 1994
23.  ROP Limited
The company, whose head office is in Ndola, produces
cooking oil, soaps, detergents and other related products.
ROP  is  100  per  cent owned by  the Government.    The
privatisation strategy for the company is that it will sold
on a competitive bid basis.
The company privatisation study for ROP was completed by
Luso Consult,  in association with KP.MG Peat Marwick,
Zambia, in November, 1992.
The company study is currently being updated in-house at
ZPA.  The main work to be completed is to update the
confidential information memoranda.
The privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                -. January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                   May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                June, 1993
Advertisement                                  August, 1993
Tender documentation issued                 September, 1993
Receipt of bids                               January, 1994
Evaluation of bids                              March, 1994
Board approval to commence negotiations
with top two bidders                          April, 1994
Negotiations commence                             May, 1994
Negotiations concluded                         August, 1994



Annex VII
page 14 of 19
24.  The Zambia Sugar Companv Limited
zambia Sugar is a public company. The company has three
distinct but related operations.   It has a sugar cane
plantation at Nakambala Estate, sugar processing factories
at Nakambala and Ndola, and marketing operations with main
depots at Mazabuka, Lusaka and Ndola. The head office is
situated in Lusaka.  In addition to the main marketing
depots, the company also has four rural depots.
The shareholders in Zambia Sugar Company Limited are:
Indeco                        78.2 %
Booker Tate (UK)              10.9 %
Others                        10.9 %
Thete are currently some 450 shareholders in the Zambia
Sugar Company.
Booker Tate has pre-emptive rights.  The cot_any currently
has an investment project which will involve cane field
expansion, plant rehabilitation and other investment. The
project is estimated to cost up to US$ 50 million and is
expected to be financed from internal reserves and
additional equity investment. At completion, the project
will increase sugar production from 125 000 tonnes per
annum to 170 000 tonnes per annum..
Zambia Sugar will be privatised through an initial dilution
in GovernmentIs shareholding through the financing plan
proposed by Zambia Sugar Limited. The investment by Booker
Tate and other financiers would be equity capital,
resulting  in  a  majority  private  shareholding.    The
GovernmentIs minority shareholding will then be offered for
public participation. Subject to successful negotiations,
the public flotation will be done in 1993 in preference to
the Chilanga Cement flotation.  If the flotation is not
done in 1993, the shares should be warehoused in the
Privatisation Trust Fund, pending the public flotation.
The company privatisation study for Zambia Sugar Company
was completed in April,  1993.   The study was done by
Coopers and Lybrand, Zambia in association with Cargill
Technical Services. The study was funded by the Zambia
Sugar Company Limited.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale (obtained)      March, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale (obtained)   April, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
May, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                     June, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                    October, 1993
Possible public flotation                    November, 1993



Annex VII
page 15 of 19
25. United Milling Limited
The company has maize milling plants in Chingola and
Solwezi. The company which is 100 per cent owned by the
Government will be privatised after a reorgantsation so as
to sell the mills as separate units. The mode of sale to
be used will be competitive bid for each mill.
The company privatisation study for United Milling was
completed by Res & Co, in association with Cavmont,in
November,  1992.   The study was. funded by the Germans,
through GTZ, the German Technical Cooperation Agency.
The company study is currently being updated in-house at
Z?A.   The main work to be completed is to update the
-confidential information memoranda and to restructure the
financial and other information by individual mill.
The privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                   May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                June, 1993
Advertisement                                    July, 1993
Tender documentation issued                   October, 1993
Receipt of bids                              December, 1994
Evaluation of bids                           February, 1994
Board approval to commence negotiations
with top two bidders                          March, 1994
Negotiations commence                           March, 1994
Negotiations concluded                           July, 1994
26.  Zambia Cashew Comnanv Limited
The ZPA has not commenced the privatisation work for the
Zambia Cashew Company.   The terms of reference for the
privatisation study will be prepared.
It is expected that the study will be completed in
October/November, 1993.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale              November, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale             January, 1994
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
February, 1994
Commencement of negotiations                    March, 1994
Conclusion of negotiations                        May, 1994



Annex VII
page 16 of 19
27. Zambia Hotel Properties Limited
Zambia Hotel Properties Limited is a public company. The
company operates the two inter-continental hotels in Lusaka
and Livingstone.
The shareholders of Zambia Hotel Properties are:
ZIMCO                                    80%
InterContinental Hotels Corporation      20%
The minority shareholders have pre-emptive rights.   The
privatisation options for ZHP are greatly dependent on the
peculiar circumstances that the company is in. The company
entered into an investment agreement with the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) in March 1984. The purpose of
the agreement was to finance the rehabilitation and
expansion of the Lusaka and Mosi-O-Tunya Intercontinental
Hotels. The financing arrangement involved the provision
of loans by IFC.   According to the loan agreement, the
loans were supposed to be repaid by April 1995. However,
the company has defaulted on capital repayments and is in
arrears with interest repayments.
The privatisation process of the company should take the
form of financial restructuring.   The mode of sale for
Zambia Hotel Properties is likely to be a dilution of
Government's shareholding through equity placement for new
shares by interested investors.   Appropriate financial
restructuring arrangements will be worked out with IFC
aimed at improving the debt position of Zambia Hotel
Properties.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                    May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                 June, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
July, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                   August, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                ,-. November, 1993
28.  Zambia Cold Storage Corporation Limited
The ZPA has not commenced the privatisation work for the
Zambia Cold Storage Corporation. The terms of reference
for the privatisation study are being prepared.   It is
expected   that   the   study   will   be   completed   in
October/November 1993.



Annex VII
page 17 of 19
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                   May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                June, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
January, 1994
Commencement of negotiations                  January, 1994
Conclusion of negotiations                      March, 1994
29.  Zambia Encineering & Contractina Comvany Limited
Zambia Engineering a Contracting Company Limited (ZECCO),
whose  head  office  is  in  Mufulira,  is  engaged  in
construction, steel fabrication. and the manufacture of
furniture.
The shareholders in ZECCO are:
65% - INDECO (Subsidiary of ZIMCO)
35% - Energo Project, Yugoslavia
The minority shareholders have pre-emptive rights and it is
likely that the privatisation will be done through
negotiations with the minority shareholders.
The company privatisation study for ZECCO was completed by
the Kienbaum Management Consultants in November, 1992. The
study was funded by GTZ.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                   May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                June, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
July, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                   August, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                    October, 1993
30.  Zambia Breweries Limited
Zambia Breweries is a public company.   It is the sole
producer of lager beer in Zambia. The company has plants
in Lusaka and Ndola and has depots in 13 locations
throughout Zambia.
The shareholders of Zambia Breweries are:
Indeco                              75 %
Zamanglo Industrial Corporation    25 %



Annex VII
page 18 of 19
Zamanglo Industrial Corporation (Zamic) has pre-emptive
rights.   Zambia Breweries will be privatised by entering
negotiations with the minority shareholders to divide the
company into two companies, split geographically into the
northern plant and the southern plant with the depots also
divided accordingly. one of the companies would be offered
for negotiated sale to Zamic,   A majority share of the
other would be offered by competitive bid on a trade sale
basis, with the minority share offered on a public
flotation. The public flotation for zambia Breweries will
not be done in 1993 and it is planned therefore that the
minority shares are held in the Privatisation Trust Fund
planned to be set up in 1993.
The company privatisation study for Zambia Breweries was
completed by Arthur D. Little in November, 1992. The study
was funded by the German Government, through GTZ, the
German Technical Cooperation Agency.   These consultants
will assist the ZPA in the implementation of the
privatisation  process   for  Zambia  Brewbries.         The
consultants will be in Zambia in May, 1993.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale (obtained)      March, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale (obtained)   April, 1993
Board approval for commencement of negotiations
May, 1993
Commencement of negotiations                     June, 1993
Conclusion of negotiations                     August, 1993
(The following are dependent on the successful outcome of
negotiations to split the company into two breweries)
Advertisement offering plant for sale       September, 1993
Tender documentation issued                   October, 1993
Receipt of bids                               January, 1994
Evaluation of bids                              Mairch, 1994
Board approval to commence negotiations
with top two bidders                          April, 1994
Negotiations commence                           April, 1994
Negotiations concluded                            July, 1994
31.  Zambia Agriculture DeveloDment Limited
The principal  activities  are ranching,  dairying,  crop
farming, pig farming and fattening of steers for sale.
ZADL  is  100 per cent owned by  the Government.    The
privatisation strategy for ZADL is that it will be divided
into individual farm units with individual farms sold on a
tender basis.



Annex VII
page 19 of 19
The company privatisation study for ZADL was completed by
Luso Consult, in association with KPMG Peat Marwick,
Zambia, in November, 1992.  The study was funded by the
Germans, through GTZ, the German Technical Cooperation
Agency.
The company study is currently being updated in-house at
ZPA.   The main work to be completed is to update the
confidential information memoranda and to restructure the
financial and other information by individual mill.
The privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale (obtained)      March, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale (obtained)   April, 1993
Advertisement                                    July, 1993
Tender documentation issued                     August,1993
Receipt of bids                              November, 1993
Evaluation of bids                           'ebruary, 1994
Board approval to commence negotiations
with top two bidders                          April, 1994
Negotiations commence                             May, 1994
Negotiations concluded                           June, 1994
32. Zambia Horticultural Products Limited
The ZPA has not commenced the privatisa-ion work for the
Zambia Horticultural Products. The terms of reference for
the privatisation study are being prepared. It is expected
that the study will be completed in October/November 1993.
The planned privatisation timetable is set out below:
Gazette notice (published)                    January, 1993
Board approval for mode of sale                   May, 1993
Cabinet approval for mode of sale                June, 1993
Advertisement                                November, 1993
Tender documentation issued                  November, 1993
Receipt of bids                               January, 1994
Evaluation of bids                              March, 1994
Board approval to commence negotiations  -
with top two bidders                          April, 1994
Negotiations commence                           April, 1994
Negotiations concluded                           July, 1994
*M*y**********
6 May 1993



Annex VIII
page I of S
ZAMBIA
SECOND PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM CREDIT
PRIVATIZATION TRUST FUND
Introducion
1.    The Govemnment of Zambia has launched a comprehensive privatization program
which was passed into law by the Parliament as the Privatization Act, 1992 (the Privatizaion
Act).
2.    The Privatization Act provides for the divesti'sw^ of all the State Owned Enterprises
(the SOEs), except the public utilities which will be resv ctured separately, and are
subsequently expected also to be sold. In all, approximately 150 SOEs are or will be affected
by the Privatization Act.
3.    The Bank has provided support to the Government for the implementation of the
Program through the Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC), for SDR 146 million,
and the associated PIRC TA project.
Tbe Privatization Trust Funld
4.    The Privatization Program is one of the elements of the private sector initiative
launched by the Government. The main objectives of this Progr  are:
(a)    Participation of the largest number of Zamnbian citizens, compatible with
maintaining the value of the shares, in the privaization process through direct
or indirect ownership of shares in the companies to be privatized;
(b)    Creation of an equity capital market which would permit trading in the shares
in the Newly Privaized Enterprises (NPEs) as well as permit new capital
increases by these companies as well as by other private enterprises;
(c)   Introduction of new instruments to encourage popular saving and diversify the
tys of sving itments which the small individual Zamban savers or
contractual savings institutions can buy. This coneens In particular the
creation and development of unit trusts or mutual finds, investent funds,
venu  capital fumds and the development of stronger, more compedtive
insurance and pension fund sectors.
5.    It is recognized that the orderly and carefil implementation of the private sector
development inidative will take time. On the other hand, the sale of the SOEs which have
been identified for privatization must move forward quickly if one does not want to see the
economic viability of these enteprises enangered and their value impaired in the period of
asition between Government and private ownerhip.
6.    The Privaizaton Trust Fund (PFM), the establishment of which is provided tor In the
Privatiaion Act, wil enable the Government to respond to these two constraints of findi



Annex VIm
page 2 of 5
rapidly a private majority shareholder while, at the same time, setting aside the remainig
shares for subsequent resale to Zambian citizens, including employees of the NPEs, and to
Zambian financial intermediaies such as pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds
and investment funds. The P7F will hold the shares on trust for sale to small Zambian
investors by public offerings or, if that is not practicable, to financial intermediaries.
[ Qectves
7.    The PTF will have the following objectives:
(a)    Enable the widest number of Zambian citizens to participate in the
privatization process;
(b)    Protect the value of the minority shareholdings until they are sold; and
(c)    Ensure transparency.
8.    As a consequence of fulfilling these objectives, the following related benefits are
expected:
(a)    Facilitation of the creation and development of a deeper capital market and, in
particular, of a stock market; and
(b)    Facilitation of the process of privadzation.
9.    The Privatization Trust Fund will be established in accordance with the Privatzation
Act. The PTF will be managed by a professional management company (the Management
Company) in accordance with a Trust Deed and a Management Contract entered into with the
Trustees. Responsibiity for supervising the Management Company and, in particular, for
ensuring that its decisions are in conformity with the Trust Deed, the Management Contract
and the Divestment Policy will rest with the Board of Trustees of the PTF.
10.   The PF  will be established by a Trst Deed between the Government and the
Trustees. The Trust will eis for a period of 5 years. If all the shaues are sold within ha
period, the PTF will be liquidated. If some shares remain unsold, the PTF will be converted
into a unit tust failing an agreeme  between the Govemment and the Tmstees to the
contrary.
11.   It will hold a minority shareholding in certain NPEs after the majority shareholding
has been sold by the ZPA in accordance with the Privatizatlon Act. Once the shares have
been traferred to the PTF, the Government has no remaining contol over those shar.
The Govemment will however receive any dividends paid on the shares and the ultimate net
sales proceeds.
Te Board of Ts
12.   The Board of Trustees will be comprised of five Trstees appointed by the Minister of
Fiance, and is expected to consist of: the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance,



Annex Vm
page 3 of 5
and one representative each from the Law Association of Zambia, the Zambia Confederation
of Industries and Chambers of Conunerce (ZACCI), the Zambia Institute of Certified
Accountants, and the Zambia Bankers Association. The Chairman and Vice-Chairman will be
elected by the Board of Trustees from among its members. The Trustees have security of
tenure except in cases of bankruptcy or serious misconduct.
13.   The fimctions and responsibilities of the Board of Trustees will be to:
(a)    Supervise the operations of the Management Company;
(b)    Ensure that the Management Company acts in conformity with the
Management Contract, the Trust Deed, the PTF Objectives and the
Divestment Policy at all times;
(c)    Evaluate the performance of the Management Company in relation to the
Divestment Program;
(d)    Prepare anmnu ficial statements of the Fund; and
(e)    Appoint independent auditors to audit the accounts of the PTF. The auditors
will submit an independent opinion on the results of their review to the Board
of Trustees. The audit report will also be publicly released.
Seletuion nCr a for Purchase of Shares
14.   At the dme of negotiatons with the potential buyers of the majority shAreholdings, the
ZPA will offer to the P7F shares of NPEs which are thought to be suitable candidates for a
public offering. The PFF will reject an offer of shares of a NPE if the Trustees consider that
kt does not meet the PTF Objectives and selection criteria. The percentage of the shares of
the NPE which will be allotted for such purpose will be determined by the ZPA, up to a
maximumi of 30%.
15.   The PTF may accept the shares only if 51% of the shares of the NPE have been sold
to a majority shareholder or to several shareholders. If the sale of 51% of the shares is to
several shareholders, then the PTF may accept the offer only if those shareholders have
entered into a shareholders agreement whereby the responsibiity for managing the NPE will
rest with one of them.
16.   The PTP  may not accept any offer of shares of a NPE if accepting this offer would
result In acquiring an effective controlling interest. The shares of the NPE must be, in the
opinion of the Trstees, weil sited for a public flotation or a sale to suitable financial
intermediaries. In general, offers of shares in NPEs which are likely to be good candidates
for being broken up in several parts such as truck haulage companies should be declined.
_Exrcis of the Ownerhipfht  b the FT
17.   The PTF will have the normal rlghts of a shareholder In the NPE as set out in the
Companies Act and the Articles of Association of the NPE concened. It will have the right
to vote at the anual ordiny shareholders' meetings and at the extraordinary shareholdes'
meetings. I XI not expected to be represented on the board of directors. 'Me PrF will



Annex VIm
page 4 of S
receive dividend payments on Its shares. Such dividend payments will be made to an account
specifically established for that purpose in the name of the PTF.
Tl*e ManamCMomman
18.   The Trustees will select the Management Company after competitive bidding among
banks and financial institutions. The functions, responsibilities, rights and obligations of the
Management Company will be set out in a Management Contract entered into with the
Trustees.
19. The Management Company may appoint a technical advisor which may not be a bank
or financial institution registered in Zambia to assist in the fulfillment of the Management
Contract. The name of such advisor and proper information on its identity, competence and
experience will be furnished at the time of bidding. Sufficient evidence will be provided to
the effect that the prospective technical advisor is a bank, merchant bank, securities company,
portfolio management company or individual, properly registered as such in its country of
incorporation or in the country of principal business activity and is of professional repute.
The eost of hiring such technical advisor will be covered by the Management Fee.
The Mana&=t Cona
20. The Management Contract will be for the same period as the Trust Deed. It will set
out the functions and responsibilities of the Management Company which will be to:
(a)    Manage the PTF in accordance with the Trust Deed;
(b)    Evaluate the offers of shares made by the ZPA and advise the Trustes
whether to accept or decline them;
(c)    Manage the PTF shareholdings and monitor the progress of the portfolio;
(d)    Advise the Trustees on the sale of the shares in accordance with the PTF
Objectives, the Divestment Policy and the Divestment Program; and
(e)    Submit to the Board of Trustees quarterly activity report and fiancial
staements of the P7F. The report will present the results of the various
divestment actions undertaken by the Management Comnany, including the
types of buyers, the capita gains achieved, and the progress accomplished to
date relative to the Divestment Program.
2t.   As a remuneration for its work and the reimbursement for its operating costs, the
Management Company will receive a Management Fee which will consist of two parts:
(a)    A fixed monhy fee; and
(b)    A performance fee which will be determined on the basis of the ability of the
Management Company to sell the shares in accordance with the Divestment



Annex VIII
page 5 of 5
Program. The performance fee will be fixed in accordance with precise
guidelines set out in the Management Contract.
22.   The Management Fee will cover all management, overhead, operating and
administrative costs, including the cost of the technical advisor, if any. It will not cover the
transfer costs of the shares, including transfer taxes, stamp dudes and registration fees. Such
transfer costs will be borne by the Government.
Divestment Proram  and Qutline of Divesme PMlicy
23.   The Divestment Program will include a time-table for the divestment of all shares held
in the PTF. The time-table will set forth the approximate dates and the methods of
divestment of the shares. The Divestment Program will be drawn up in conformity with the
PTF Objectives and the Divestment Policy.
24.   Priority will be given to the small individual Zambian investor through initial public
offerings. However, if capital market conditions are unfvorable, shares will be soid to
fnancial hitermediaries investing on behaf of Zambian citizens. This priority should be
reflected in the dermiaion of the selling price of the shares and the ceiling for the number
of shares which may be purchased by each individual or institutional investor. Maximum
transparency of the sales will be achieved through publicity and promotional campaigns.
25.   The timing of the divestments should take into account other public or private
placements in order to avoid putting an excessive strain on the absorptive capacity of the stock
market. Maximum coordination should be maintained with the governng body of the Stock
Exchange, the ZPA, and institutional investors in order to achieve this objective. The
Trustees may decide to sell the shares of a NPE in one or several tranches.
26. The sale of shares of a NPE to a financial intermediary will not be permitted if such
sale would create new or reinforce existing dominat positions in specific markets in
accordance with the ptovisions of the new Competition Act.
Action Elan
27.   The PFF should be operational in time for receiving the minority shares of the NPEs
which are in the second round of the Privatization Program. In order to achieve this goal, a
draft Trust Deed, including PTF objectives and Divestment Policy, and a draft Management
Contract have been prepared, along with a short-list of candidates for the Management
Company. FuIal establishmen of the 7FF, requirin Trustees to have been appointed and
necesary lqea arrangements completed, is expected by mid-June, before IDA Board
presentation. Selection and appointment of the Management Company, rendering the P7F
operational, along widt the transfer of the first block of shares to the P7F, should then be
achieved before the end of 1993.



