CREDIT NUMBER 2523 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 J0   , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2523 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              3o     , 1993, between REPUBLIC
OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) fid INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into
a Development Credit Agreement (Privatisation and Industrial Reform
Adjustment Credit) dated July 13, 1992 (Credit No. 2405 ZA) pro-
viding for assistance from the Association to the Borrower in the
financipg of urgently needed imports required during the execution
of a Program (hereinafter called the First Program) described in a
letter (hereinafter called the First Letter of Development Policy)
dated May 28, 1992 from the Borrower to the Association;
(B)  the Association has received a letter dated Hay 14, 1993,
(hereinafter called the Second Letter of Development Policy) from
th; Borrower providing an update on the progress achieved in the
execution of the First Program and describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve further structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Second
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Second Program, and requesting further assistance from the
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports required
during such execution; and
(C)  on the basis, inter alia, of the        foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Second Program to provide
such further assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in
three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated Jcniuary 1, 1985, with
the modifications thereof set forth below (the general Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to


﻿-2-
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Second Program referred to in the
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance
by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Bank of Zambia" means the Central Bank of Zambia
established under the Bank of Zambia Act (Act No. 24 of 1985 of the
laws of the Borrower), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b)  "ZIMCO"   ameans  the  Zambia  Industrial  and  Mining
Corporation Limited, a holding company established and operating
under the laws of the Borrower;
(c)  "ZIMOIL" means the oil import division of ZIMCO or the
division's successor;
(d)  "Public Utilities" means Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation Limited, Zambia Railways Limited, Zambia Electricity
Supply Corporation Lmited, ZIMOIL, Tazama Pipelines Limited, Indeni
Iatroleum Refinery Company Limited, and any successor entities to
any of the above;
(e)  "SITC"   means   the   Standard   International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series H, No. 343 (1986);


﻿-3-
(f)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g)  "ZCCM" means the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd.,
a company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
and
(h)  "Cabinet Legislation Committee" means the Borrower's
ministerial sub-committee on legislation which is responsible for
the review of legislation prior to final governmental approval.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-
nine  million   one  hundred  thousand   Special  Drawing   Rights
(SDR 79,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program, open
and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Siacial Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
S'V,hedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitmen.. charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn From time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-4-
(b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(e)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1
commencing August 1, 2003 and ending Feburary 1, 2033.       Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2013, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) cf such principal
amount.
(b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the  Executive  Directors   of  the  Association  and  after  due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrover to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the


﻿-5-
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Governor of the Bank of Zambia is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
(b)  Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of Zambia with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$3,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Second Program and the
actions specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
(b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Second Program, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)  at the beginning of each year with effect from 1994 until
1997 submit to the Association for review its updated annual
privatization plan satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)  implement the said privatization plan taking into account
the views of the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿-7-
(c) For All expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until   at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts ard other
documents) evidencing such expenditureo;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records   and  accounts  are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with   the  procedures  and   internal
controls involve4 in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event: is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Second Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  the Borrower has submitted to the Association a timetable
for the tariff reform referred to in paragraph 6 of the Second
Letter of Development Policy;
(b)  the Borrower has furnished to the Cabinet Legislation
Committee drafts, acceptable to the Association, of laws providing
for:
(i)    the licensing and prudential supervision by the
Bank   of  Zambia   of  financial   institutions
accepting deposits within the territory of the
Borrower or otherwise offering financlal services
therein;
(ii)   the licensing and regulation by a competent body
of   a  stock   exchange,  brokers,   investment
advisers, mutual funds, unit trusts and other
entities engaged in a securities business, and
the issuance and trading of securities in the
territory of the Borrower;
(iii)   the removal of all constraints which inhibit
trading, manufacturing or service activities
except for those related to taxation, healch,
safety and environment;
(iv)   amendment of the Companies Act (Chapter 686 of
the laws of the Borrower) so as to modernize and
simplify legislation relating to the formation,
operations, reorganization and winding-up of
companies registered in the territory of the
Borrower, and for the registration and powers of
foreign companies carrying on business therein;
and
(v)    the control of restrictive trade practices and
the limitation of monopoly powers.


﻿-9-
(a)  the Borrower has prepared guidelines satisfactory to the
Association for the regulation of capital market transactions and
the operation of a stock exchange;
(d)  the Borrower has completed all measures within its
control to achieve the objective of privatizing at least twenty
government-owned companies who total size is equal to about 10% of
the aggregate size of all companies to be privatized under the First
Program as agreed between the Borrower and the Association;
(e)  the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
that cash compensation has been paid to entitled individuals made
redundant by parastatal organizations and enterprises privatized
from November 1, 1991 to April 30, 1993 and has made arrangements
for counselling and offering training to persons made redundant
after the Effective Date;
(f)  the Borrower has recruited the key staff for the Zambia
Privatization Agency;
(g)  the Borrower   has   adopted  an  automatic  adjustment
mechanism for the establishment of prices and tariffs by the Public
Utilities;
(h)  the Borrower has made arrangements for the regulation of
the Public Utilities through the establishment and staffing of a
Public Utilities secretariat, whi'"h would oversee their operational
efficiency and sound financial performance; and
(i)  the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the
Association that it has secured financial commitments to cover
substantially   its  external   financial   requirements  through
December 31, 1993.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agzeement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11,01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Ridgeway
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, NW.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREO, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By /j/ &n4xg      /9"IV
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By//
Regionaf Vi e President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Second Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)  expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
GrMR           SubgroMR       Description of Items
112                --          Alcoholic beverages
121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                --          Radioactive and
associated materials
667                --          Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors


﻿- 13 -
Grop           Subgroup       Description of Items
728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(d)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
ony national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(e)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(f)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 14,500,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.    Withdrawals  for   expenditures  under  contracts   for  the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent
may be required by the Association upon the basis of statements of
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 35,900,000, unless the Association
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Second Program; (b) that the actions described


﻿- 14 -
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken; and (c) the macro-
economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the
objectives of the Second Program.
5.    No withdrawal shall be made and no comitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 57,500,000, unless the Association
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Second Program; (b) that the actions described
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken; and (c) the macro-
economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the
objectives of the Second Program.
6.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraphs 4 and
5 above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.    Except as provided in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 below, contracts
for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the modifications set forth
in paragraph 2 below.
(a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation     to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Association, with such modifications thereto as the Association
shall have agreed to be necessary, shall be used. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Association,
bidding documents based on other international recognized standard
forms agreed with the Association shall be used.
2.    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper


﻿- 16 -
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of   wide   international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
3.    Goods procured under international competitive procedures
shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third
party inspection firm.
4.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $1,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association; and
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
5.    Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
6.    Spare parts and other proprietary items may be procured
directly from suppliers in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
7.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph I of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out cA: the proceeds
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
8.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 4, 5
and 6 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect thereof, such documentation and information as the
Association   may  reasonably   request  to   support  withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract. Where payments under a
contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account,
the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
9.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 8 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    In accordance with the Second Program, the Borrower has:
(a)   appointed a managing institution for the Privatization
Trust Fund (the PTF) in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association, and has transferred to the PTF the shareholdings
reserved by it for sale to the public in at least one of the
companies being privatized;
(b)   furnished  to   the  Association   a  report   on  the
privatization options for ZCCM;
(c)   adopted a comprehensive program    of assistance and
compensation for staff made redundant by parastatal organizations
and privatized enterprises, including the possibility of using non-
cash payments, such as company shares, housing and other assets in
providing such compensation;
(d)   on the basis of the recommendations of the studies
referred to in paragraph 12 of the Second Letter of Development
Policy, adopted an action plan for the development of investment
financing and for the future roles of the Development Bank of
Zambia, the Lima Bank and Eximbank;
(e)   completed a study and furnished to the Association its
plans for the revision of the regulations governing insurance
companies, pension funds and other contractual savings institutions
in such a manner as to facilitate investment of their resources in
capital market instruments; and
(f)   enacted or amended, as the case may be, the legislation
referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2. The competent body referred to in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of the
Development Credit Agreement has issued all necessary regulations
for the operation of a stock exchange and such exchange is
operational.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b)
of Schedule I to this Agreement
In accordance with the Second Program, the following measures
have been taken:
1.    The Borrower has, under terms of reference agreed upon with
the Association, completed an assassment of the impact of the
privatization aspects of the First Program and the Second Program
and has reviewed the results of such assessment with the
Association.
2.    The Manager of the Privatization Trust Fund (PTF) referred to
in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement
has furnished to the Trustees of the PTF and the Association, a
detailed plan for divestiture of shares held by the PTF.
3.    The Borrower has adopted:
(a)   the action plan referred to in paragraph 26 of the
Second Letter of Development Policy designed to strengthen the
regulatory framework for the Public Utilities;
(b)   operational frameworks based on the reviews referred to
in paragraphs 25 and 26 of the Second Letter of Development Policy
for the Post and Telecommunication Corporation, Zambia Railways and
the Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation; and
(c)   an action plan for a drvelopment of a land market,
including proposals relating to ownership and transfer of land.
4.    The Borrower has completed:
(a)   a review of the effectiveness of the Investment Act
(Act 19 of 1991 of the laws of the Borrower) and of the Investment
Center and has adopted a time-bound action plan for correcting any
shortcomings identified by the review; and
(b)   a review of the regulatory framework for small-scale
enterprises (SSEs) and has adopted a time-bound action plan,
satisfactory to the Association, for reducing and streamlining the
regulatory and licensing requirements for SSEs and for easing their
access to credit.


﻿- 20 -
5.    In accordance with the privatization program referred to in
paragraph 18 of the Second Letter of Development Policy, the
Borrower has:
(a)    completed the sale or liquidation of at least 15
enterprises;
(b)    taken all steps within its control to bring to the
point of sale a further 20 enterprises; and
(c)    offered for sale a total of not less than         60
enterprises under the First and Second Programs.
For the purposes of this paragraph, "taking all steps within its
control to bring to the point of sale" requires the Borrower to have
(i) carried out a valuation of the enterprise, (ii) prepared a
prospectus or dossier for the enterprise in question as the case may
be, (iii) solicited offers directly or through advertisement(s) in
appropriate newspapers, (iv) evaluated any offers and selected
successful bidder(s), and (v) invited the successful bidder(s) to
enter into good faith negotiations. Further, "offer for sale" means
any case where the Borrower has undertaken the steps specified in
(i), (ii) and (iii) above.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the proisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(b)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which


﻿- 22 -
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3  of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit follows such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 23 -
6.    (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special -Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon noti!e from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of th'e funds on deposit
in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
.........


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


