SfCIRCULRTNG COPY
FILE -CoPv                    TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1579-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROGRAM LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
March 4, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. it ma not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy oir completeeS of the report.



Currency Unit       = Won
Won 485             = US$1.00
Won 1,000           = US$2.06
Won 1,000,000       = US$2,061.86
Fiscal Year         = January 1 - December 31



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED PROGRAM
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1I.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
program loan for the equivalent of $100 million to the Republic of Korea.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        Korea's economic performance over the last decade has been out-
standing. (See "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Republic
of Korea", Report No. 332-KO, February 20, 1974). In the period 1964-73,
the GNP growth rate averaged 10 percent a year in real terms and real
per capita income more than doubled. The rapid rise of output and an
appreciable decline in the population growth rate (from nearly 2.7 percent
in the early sixties to 1.7 percent in 1973) were major reasons for the
rapid increase in income. A key factor in the growth of the economy has
been the increase of manufactured exports from about $60 million in 1964 to
$2,800 million in 1973. Such exports in 1973 accounted for over 90 percent
of commodity exports and about 29 percent of industrial output. The ratio
of exports to GNP rose rapidly from 4 percent in 1964 to 27 percent in
1973 and the manufacturing sector as a proportion of GNP increased from
16 percent to 28 percent in the same period. Agriculture, which has had a
growth rate of about 3.5 percent a year over the past several years, declined
as a proportion of GNP from 46 percent in 1964 to 23 percent in 1973.
3.        Rapid growth transformed the Korean economy from one characterized
by dependence on agriculture and sluggish growth in the 1950s to one of
dynamic growth based on increasing industrialization in the 1960s. Never-
theless, there have been problems. The two which have caused the Korean
Government most concern are (a) the resource management problem, resulting
from a heavy reliance on external capital and (b) the question of distri-
bution of growth benefits, arising out of a faster productivity growth in
manufacturing than in agriculture.
4.        Total real investment grew six-fold between 1964 and 1973, and
the ratio of investment to GNP rose from 13 percent to 25 percent. External
resource requirements also grew rapidly during 7970-71 averaging over 9
percent of GNP, roughly the same level as in the early sixties. The
marginal saving rate during the last decade was 30 percent which would
indicate that the large capital inflows did not weakened efforts to mobilize
resources domestically. Korea, however, entered upon a period of rapid
growth with a very low level of domestic savings and, therefore, in the
interest of rapid acceleration of investment and growth tolerated relatively
heavy dependence on external capital.  Tn the early seventies when financial



difficulties resulted from bunching of payments due on short and medium
term debt and a sharp rise in the debt service ratio, the Government
took corrective action to moderate the rate of private investment, to
increase the inflow of capital on concessional terms from official sources,
to impose restrictions on suppliers' credits, and to improve the balance
of payments position through substantial exchange rate adjustments.
5.        These measures, combined with a reduction in Government real
investment and uncertainty in the Korean business community about export
prospects, produced a marked slowdown in the economy during the 1970-72
period. Even with a continued high rate of export expansion (about 50 per-
cent per annum on average in current terms), real GNP growth averaged only
8 percent per annum during 1970-72, compared with about 13 percent in the
preceding three years. Real investment stagnated during 1970-72, and the
ratio of fixed investment to GNP dropped from 27 percent in 1969 to 22 per-
cent in 1972.
6.        Although income distribution in Korea is generally more equitable
than in comparable developing countries, the benefits of economic growth
have not been shared evenly. The absolute gap in incomes between urban
and rural areas widened during the 1960s despite a massive migration to the
cities. Growth of labor productivity in agriculture has been considerably
slower than in the manufacturing sector. Since 1967, the Government has
attempted to raise farm incomes and to provide incentives for increasing
foodgrain production through a price support system for rice and barley.
These measures reduced markedly the gap between average rural and urban
incomes during 1968-72. Nevertheless, growth of the industrial sector is
likely to continue to be more rapid than that of the agricultural sector,
and the Government believes that, unless the proportion of rural incomes
provided by non-farm sources is increased, the disparity of incomes will
tend to widen. Therefore, the Government broadened its efforts to achieve
more balanced growth by pursuing policies of decentralizing industry and
emphasizing investment in the less developed regions, and in late 1971
initiated the Sae Maeul (New Community) Movement as a nationwide comprehensive
self-help program to increase productivity and incomes in the rural areas,
where nearly half the population still lives, and to improve the quality of
rural life.
Recent Changes
7.        During the last two years or so the Korean economic situation has
been subject to sudden and sharp changes. Beginning with the latter part
of 1972, the Korean economy witnessed an unprecedented boom.   1973 was
an exceptional year, even by Korean standards, and set new records of
growth in GNP, exports and savings. GNP grew by 16.5 percent in real
terms, primarily because of increases in exports and fixed investment.
Commodity exports, in nominal terms, rose by over 90 percent, denoting
an increase in real terms of about 60 percent. National savings, which
had dropped to about 15 percent of GNP in 1972, rose to 22 percent in



1973, surpassing the previous peak (1970) of about 18 percent. Foreign
savings were only about 3 percent of GNP and financed only about 12 percent
of total investment, compared with about 40 percent from 1968 to 1971. The
rapid rise in foreign exchange earnings, which included a marked increase
in tourism income, also reduced the ratio of debt service payments to export
receipts to about 10 percent in 1973.
8.        The remarkable performance of the economy in 1973 encouraged
both business and Government to view the future with increased confidence.
In the latter part of 1973, Korean economic aspirations were expressed
in terms of targets of $1,000 per capita income and $10 billion of exports
by the early 1980's. The long-term strategy implied the continuation over
the next decade of the overall rate of GNP growth of about 10 percent per
annum but with reduced dependence, in relative terms, on net inflows from
abroad. At the same time, major structural shifts were being planned for
manufacturing. The objective of deepening the industrial structure was to
be achieved by emphasizing shipbuilding, steel, petrochemical and metal-
working industries, while continuing to develop existing industries such as
textiles and electronics. The long-term plan also provided for the achieve-
ment of parity between rural and urban household incomes by the early 1980's
through accelerated growth in labor productivity in agriculture and an
increase in off-farm employment by greater regional dispersion of industry.
9.        The favorable economic developments of 1973 were interrupted by
external developments in 1974. The sharp rise in the price of petroleum
in late 1973, the recession in the Japanese and the U.S. economies during
1974, and the high level of foodgrain import prices have combined to bring
about a major change in the short-term economic position of Korea. Owing
to its poor natural resource endowment and because of its economic structure
and growth strategy, Korea was severely affected by these recent international
developments. Merchandise exports now account for about 30 percent of GNP
in Korea and dependence on the Japanese and U.S. markets has remained heavy.
A major element in the Korean export picture during 1973 was an expansion
of over 200 percent in exports to Japan, which was made possible by a very
sizeable expansion in total Japanese imports. Nearly 75 percent of total
Korean exports went to the U.S. and Japan during 1973. Korea was thus
particularly vulnerable to the recession in the Japanese and U.S. economies
during 1974. The revival of the Japanese economy and the future trend in
Japanese manufactured goods imports will probably continue to be major
determinants of the Korean growth rate in the future, although the Government
is making efforts to diversify its export markets by encouraging sales in
the Middle East and Europe.
10.       In the short-run, however, the higher costs of energy and food
imports have added a burden to the economy which is even more serious
than the setback to export growth. Korean dependence on imported fuels
is not only extremely heavy but is very closely linked to essential indus-
trial and transport uses. The passenger vehicle fleet is small, with only
one private car per 152 families; truck transport and diesel-powered rail
traffic are the basic transport modes for commercial goods. The higher



- 4 -
costs of petroleum added almost $800 million to the Korean import bill
between 1972 and 1974. Over the same period, the three-fold rise in the
prices of foodgrains increased foreign exchange requirements by more than
$350 million, despite a decline in the volume of imports. Korea is at
present importing about 2 million tons of wheat and about half a million
tons of rice annually, constituting respectively 85 percent and 11 percent
oL total domestic consumption. Together petroleum and foodgrains accounted
for 36 percent of Korea's increased import bill in 1974 and 25 percent of
total import payments that year.
11.       These international developments have greatly weakened the Korean
balance of payments position In 1974 and prospectively in 1975, slowed the
rate of growth of output and employment and increased inflationary pressures.
12.       The current account balance of payments deficit widened from the
low level of $308 million in 1973 to an estimated $1,440 million during
1974, or by more than $1,100 million. The major factors in the deterioration
were an adverse swing in the terms of trade of 16 percent (equivalent to
a loss of about 5 percent of GNP) and a large negative balance on the
services account, due in part to a decline in tourism receipts. The
deterioration was notwithstanding a substantial further improvement in
real exports of about 10 percent, to a total of $4.8 billion, and only
a modest growth in real imports. The entire improvement in export volume
was concentrated in the first half of 1974. Real export earnings in the
final quarter of 1974 are estimated to have been six percent below the
corresponding quarter of 1973.
13.       At current prices, total import payments (c.i.f.) are estimated
to have been about $6.9 billion in 1974, an increase of $2.3 billion, or
about 63 percent, over 1973. But in real terms, imports are estimated
to have increased by little more than 2 percent in 1974, mainly as a result
of decreases in imports of grains and capital goods, and only a small
increase in raw materials.
14.       It is estimated that the net inflows of capital (medium and long-
term loans and foreign private investment) into Korea during 1974 remained
at the 1973 level of about $1 billion. Consequently, the increased current
account deficit had to be financed entirely through an increase in private
short-term debt, a reduction of external reserves, Bank of Korea borrowings
abroad and drawings on the IMF gold tranche and first credit tranche and
the use of the IMF oil facility. Korea's net international reserves, which
stood at about $945 million at the end of 1973, had declined to about $90
million by the end of 1974. The rundown of net reserves enabled the
maintenance of levels of imports and economic activity in 1974 which otherwise
would not have been possible.
15.       Notwithstanding the Government's policy, the impact of external
cevelopments on Korea's domestic output, employment and prices has been



marked. In the first half of 1974, GNP continued to grow in real terms by
14 percent over the corresponding period of 1973, as industrial output and
real exports continued to increase and fixed investment remained at a
relatively high level. In the second half of the year, however, there was
a sharp slowdown in industrial output, private fixed investment and export
sales (particularly for textiles and plywood). The GNP for the second half
of 1974 is estimated to have been only about 3 percent above the level in
the latter half of 1973. Despite the levelling off of industrial production
there was a substantial build up in inventories of export products. Unemploy-
ment began to rise as a result of the combined effects of the industrial
slowdown, business failures and temporary closures. Between August and
November, 20,000 workers were idled. Failures of over 100 businesses in
textiles, ceramics and electronics were reported and more than 250 others
experienced temporary closures for varying periods. More than 650 businesses
partially curtailed operations. Open unemployment at the end of 1974 is
estimated to have reached about 600,000, or about 5 percent of the labor
force, compared with an average of about 4 percent in 1973. However,
because of less overtime, fewer shifts and partial workweeks, the real
increase in unemployment and the decline in real wages was much greater.
16.       Imported inflation has led to a very sharp upward pressure on the
domestic price level. In addition to the sharply higher prices of imported
petroleum and foodgrains, the average unit value of other imports increased
by 45 percent during 1974. I/ Consequently, the rate of domestic inflation
accelerated with consumer prices rising at an annual rate of 31 percent
between December 1973 and June 1974 and wholesale prices increasing at
double that rate. Since the middle of the year the rate of domestic in-
flation has slowed somewhat, reflecting seasonal factors, the slower
increase in the prices of imported goods and the dampening effects of
rising inventories of manufactured goods. It is estimated that during
calendar year 1974, wholesale prices rose by about 45 percent.
17.       In general, the Government is committed to accepting necessary
adjustments arising from higher energy and other import costs. It was
not, however, prepared to place on consumers the full burden of higher
import costs of basic foodstuffs. Thus, despite dramatic increases in
prices paid by consumers for foodgrains, substantial subsidies are still
involved in the sale of wheat and rice. Complete avoidance of these subsidies
at a time of growing unemployment and declining real wages in manufacturing
was considered inequitable. Nevertheless, the Government intends to move
during 1975 to reduce the deficit on the grain account which has largely
offset public savings during the last two years.
1/   The unit value of exports also increased during the year, but by only
34 percent.



- 6 -
Government's Response to Higher Import Prices
and Reduced International Trade
18.       The Government began early in 1974 to take action to limit the
growth of imports. In January, the general exemption from customs duties
available for machinery imports for the export sector was eliminated. Taxes
on luxury imports and a number of domestically produced commodities were
raised. However, finished non-food consumer goods comprise a relatively
small share of Korea's total imports (about 5 percent in 1973), so there has
been limited scope for cutting down on non-essential imports. To reduce
demand for petroleum products, tax rates including tariffs on private cars
were raised substantially.
19.       Because of slack demand, the burden of financing inventories
and continued increases in costs, a growing number of industries faced
serious cashflow problems in the second half of the year. This prompted
a number of mid-year changes in Governmental policies. The generally tight
financial policies in effect in the first half of the year were eased,
credits for imported and domestic industrial inputs were increased and
programs to purchase excess stocks and make available special credits to
smaller businesses were begun or expanded.
20.       The Government in December 1974 introduced a set of special
measures to offset the sluggish demand for exports that had been experienced
since mid-year. It expanded the program of export financing and provided
loans for the stockpiling of essential raw materials. Credits to exporters
for the purchase of imported raw materials and domestic goods were increased.
On December 7, 1974, the currency was devalued by 17.5 percent to Won 485
per US dollar. The devaluation was not expected to increase exports appre-
ciably because of the depressed state of Korea's overseas markets, but like
some of the other measures, it was intended to improve the liquidity position
of manufacturing enterprises. It should also improve the competitive position
of import substitution industries which had been weakened during the year.
But the devaluation will also result in continued inflationary pressures
in 1975. Among measures taken by the Government to help the low income
groups are substantial income tax relief, a 30 percent increase in salaries
of Government employees and public works projects mainly in the urban areas
to alleviate unemployment. The rural areas appear to have been hit less hard
by domestic inflation. The terms of trade moved further in favor of the
farmers during 1974 as the support price for rice was adjusted sharply upward.
21.       The past year has been a period of very difficult adjustments
for Korea which, by and large, have been made quickly and with realism.
The Government rightly views some of its current economic problems as being
essentially short-term in nature. It assumes that a recovery in the growth
rate of OECD countries will take place in the second half of 1975, in which
event Korean merchandise exports could be expected to increase by 10 to 12
percent in real terms for the year as a whole. Private fixed investment may
remain depressed for some months but the Government intends to stimulate
business and employment through increased public sector outlays, especially
for irrigation, farmland reclamation, highway construction, housing and urban



-7 -
waterworks. For example, about 87,000 units of housing, in addition to
the 112,000 units orignally planned will be undertaken in 1975, and about
334,000 new jobs are to be created in the public sector with hiring priority
to be given to unemployed persons in the low income groups. In addition
to increased capital expenditures, the Government proposes to continue
purchasing and stockpiling surplus inventories of such major industries
as textiles and plywood, for later release when the export and domestic
markets are more favorable. The overall budgetary deficit is expected to
be substantially larger than in 1974 and it is to be financed mainly by
borrowing from the Bank of Korea and from abroad. The Government is expected
to restrict the expansion of credit in low priority areas, raise interest
rates and increase the reserve requirements for banks to moderate inflationary
pressures. Essentially, the Government's strategy is to minimize damage to
the private sector during the current period of slack demand, so that when
international economic activity picks up the Korean export sector will be
able to respond. Excessive business failures and loss of capacity in the
private sector during the present slump would make recovery of the Korean
economy slower and more costly.
22.       The considerable uncertainty surrounding the international economic
situation makes it difficult to assess confidently Korea's economic pros-
pects for 1975. The Government hopes that, with its antirecessionary
measures, aided by a recovery in OECD countries in the second half of 1975,
GNP in real terms may increase by 6-7 percent and industrial output by as
much as 14 percent. However, if the recovery in the export markets is
delayed, industrial growth would be less vigorous, perhaps in the range of
10 percent, and levels of unemployment and underemployment would be even
higher.
23.       Even with a recovery in the OECD countries later this year,
Korea will face a large current account deficit estimated at about $1,700 bil-
lion. This estimate assumes that merchandise exports will increase by 10 per-
cent in real terms during 1975, that real import growth will be limited to
less than 9 percent, and that some marginal improvement (about 2 percent)
in the terms of trade will take place. An overall import growth of around
9 percent will permit 11-12 percent growth in petroleum, food and raw
materials imports and a modest increase in capital goods imports. With a
slower growth of imports it would be difficult to maintain an adequate
level of food supplies and to achieve the expected recovery of industrial
output and exports in the second half of 1975. Finding the means to finance
the large external deficit is Korea's most urgent economic challenge. The
servicing of the sizeable foreign borrowing required should not pose serious
difficulties for Korea given the present low debt service ratio and continued
good long-term prospects for export growth, provided that the proportion of
added debt incurred on short and medium terms and at high interest rates is
not too great. Korean export growth, which in real terms averaged approxi-
mately 30 percent a year during the last decade cannot be expected to be
sustained at that rate in the future. Considering, however, that 90 percent
of Korea's exports now, and prospectively, consists of manufactured goods,



- 8 -
that its links with the Japanese economy remain strong, that vigorous
efforts are being made to penetrate new markets, especially in the Middle
East, and that progress has already been made in diversifying the in-
dustrial structure, a long-term real growth rate of exports of 10 to
12 percent seems entirely possible even if world trade in manufactures
should expand comparatively slowly. With the prospect of slower growth
in exports than in the past, Korea's plans already envisage greater emphasis
on import substitution in agriculture, especially foodgrains, and in
industry with special emphasis on increasing the domestic value added in
exports. Forecasts of developments in the world economy and their impact
on Korea which is so dependent upon them are especially difficult to make
at this time. However, given Korea's record of successful economic manage-
ment in the past 10 years and the skills, adaptability, vigor and invent-
iveness of its workers and entrepreneurs, one can be confident that ways
will be found to surmount the problems facing the economy.
Foreign Exchange Requirements
24.       For 1975, we foresee a current account deficit of about $1,660
million. Amortization of medium and long-term loans (one year and over) will
require about $380 million. The deficit on the services account is likely
to equal that in 1974. Thus, the foreign capital inflow required to be
financed by direct investment and loan capital may total about $2,040 million
during 1975.



Foreign Exchange
Resource Requirements and Availabilities
(US$ million)
Actual               Estimate Projected
1970   1971  1972    1973      1974      1975
Requirements                    843  1,080   642   655       1,810     2,040
Current account deficit       623    847   370   308      1,440      1,660
Amortization of MLT loans     220    233   272   347        370        380
Supply of Funds
(disbursement basis)           786    908   790 1,105      1,160      1,405
Direct private
investment (net)              38     56    47   141        170
Short-term trade
finance /a (net)             106    148    25   103        140
Medium and long-term
loan (gross)                 642    704   718   861        850
Public borrowing
from official sources      115    303   324   369        226
Public borrowing
from commercial
sources /b                 449    368   345   424        530
Private borrowing /c         78     33    49    68         94
Supply less Requirements/       -57   -172   148   450       -650
Memo Items
Gross External Reserves                    740 1,094        900
Net External Reserves                      478   945          86
/a   Includes errors and omissions.
/b   Loans from private and public sources that receive a Government
guarantee.
/c   Loans from private sources not guaranteed by the Government.
/d   Deficits can be met by borrowing of banking system, drawing down
reserves, etc. Supply larger than requirements suggests a buildup
of reserves.



- 10 -
25.       The unprecedented jump in foreign exchange requirements, from the
level of $700-800 million per year during 1970-73 to $1,800 million in 1974,
ond more than $2,000 million forecast in 1975 indicates the magnitude of the
p-oblem facing Korea. Assuming that about $170 million in direct private
i-vestment, $175 million in short-term trade finance and $200 million from
the IMF would be available, about $1,500 million would be needed in 1975
in the form of medium and long-term loans and borrowings from the banking
system. This is about $700 million more than the average raised in each of
the last two years. Moreover, this is the mini.mum amount that will be
needed. Net reserves were practically exhausted in 1974. About $175 miJ-
lion in short-term trade finance and $200 million from the IMF in 1975
implies that net reserves would be negative by almost $300 million. Although
it is impractical to expect an improvement in net reserves in 1975, Koreo
would like to minimize further deterioration in the reserve position.
26.       The low level of reserves in 1975 will make it more difficult
for Korea to borrow the amount of additional funds required. In the
present economic situation in which funds of any duration are scarce, it
should not be taken for granted that Korea can roll-over or increase its
existing short-term credit lines which it must do in order to be able to
approach raising the amount of foreign exchange required.
27.       Also, the amount of bilateral assistance available from Japan
and the U.S. may well level off in 1975 because of these countries' preoc-
cupation with their own domestic economic difficulties. The Government has
initiated vigorous efforts to arrange finarncing from other countries, espe-
cially OPEC surplus countries, but to date these efforts have met with only
li'mited success.
28.       The. proposed program loan from the Bank must be viewed in the
broad context of Korea's overall program to meet its foreign exchange
,-quirements. That program includes (a) maintaining the 1974 level of
private investment, (b) drawing about $200 million from the IMF, (c) mar-
_L'nally increasing existing lines of credit from commercial banks, (d) tap-
ping new official aid from Consultative Group members in quick-disbursing
form and (e) cultivating new sources of development aid (e.g. Saudi Arabia,
Iran and other OPEC-surplus countries). A program loan from the Bank would
not only provide $100 million of urgently needed foreign exchange, it would
:e viewed as an expression of confidence in the Korean economy which would
make it easier for Korea to obtain the remainder of required foreign ex-
change, and on more reasonable tarm3.
29.       The servicing of borrowing on this scale is not likely to be a
problem provided part of it is available on. non-commercial terms. The debt
service ratio which was at the favorable leve' of about ten percent at the
beginning of 1974, together with substantial increases in the nominal value
of exports because of the high rates of international inflation, would
enable Korea to service a considerable volume of additional debt. If about
a third of the amount required is forthcoming from official sources and



assuming that the average maturity of loans from private sources will not
be less than ten years, the debt service ratio should rise to no more than
15 percent in the early 1980s.
30.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt dis-
bursed and outstanding at the end of 1973 was 6.4 percent and the share
in total debt service was 3.0 percent in 1973. By 1979, the Bank Group's
share in total external public debt outstanding is likely to increase to
about 11 percent and the debt service due on Bank Group loans would
represent about 7 percent of total debt service payments.
31.       If the foreign credits indicated above are not forthcoming, Korea
would have to lower its GNP growth rate drastically so as to reduce imports.
Such reductions would cause major disruption in the Korean economy. In
the short-run, capital goods imports cannot be stopped, so some reduction
in food and fuel would be necessary, which would have multiplier effects
on the economy in terms of accelerating inflation and business closings.
In the longer run these changes would be reflected in higher costs, reducing
the competitivenes of Korea's exports. Insofar as capital goods imports
can be deferred, this would mean postponement of investment which was to be
the basis of Korea's future growth and is required to deepen and otherwise
change the structure of the Korean economy.
PART II - SECTORAL INVESTMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
32.       In 1972, the Government prepared a macro-economic planning frame-
work for 1972-81 to present in some detail the growth strategy for the
period through 1981. The strategy was essentially an extension of the high
growth path Korea has followed, on the whole successfully, in the past de-
cade. The rate of growth of GNP was to be maintained at the level of about
10 percent, and growth was to depend, as in the past, on a more rapid expan-
sion of exports than of GNP.
33.       The recent economic setbacks have caused Korea to re-examine its
basic developmental objectives and strategy. Although revised plans have
not been completed, it appears that the target for the average annual in-
crease in GNP will be lowered to 7-8 percent, and greater emphasis will be
placed on increasing domestic value added. The growth rate of exports will
accordingly be lower.
34.       The new strategy provides for a shift in the structure of manufac-
turing output and exports towards heavier industries (shipbuilding, steel
and petrochemicals), but more gradually than had been planned prior to
the increase in energy prices. It still aims at achieving parity between
rural and urban household incomes by the mid-1980s, somewhat later than
had been planned earlier.



- 12 -
35.       The sectoral investment policies and programs being followed by
the Government at this time do not appear to be unreasonable. However,
because they are based on assumptions about levels of exports and growth
of GNP that will require some improvement in international trade in the
latter half of 1975, they may be subject to review and modification in the
coming months.
Agriculture and Rural Development
36.       Efforts to raise the standard of living of the rural population
are being channelled through specific agricultural programs and through
the New Community Movement (Sae Maeul). The Government continues to
place emphasis on increasing grain production both to raise farm incomes
and for balance of payments reasons. In terms of volume, grain imports
amount to about one-third of domestic demand. To increase grain produc-
tion, improved seeds will be supplied to a much larger area than in 1974
and the supply of fertilizers, insecticides, agricultural machines and
other farm equipment will be facilitated. Tne Bank's agricultural seeds
project, which is getting underway, is designed to improve the quality of
seed and, thereby, increase productivity. In addition, the development
of four major river basin irrigation programs will be continued. The
Bank's ongoing Pyongtaek-Kumgang and Yong San Gang Irrigation Projects
are in support of these programs. Short-term agricultural credit for
small farmers is increasingly a constraint in acquiring additional and/or
improved inputs. This is because the rising prices of farm products have
not kept pace with soaring production costs. Shortages of fertilizers,
pesticides and other farm inputs have also meant increased costs. To
finance their investments, farmers would also need more intermediate and
long-term credit.
37.       Notwithstanding the above short-term problems, the main thrust
of the agricultural development policy is sound. The past record of a
3.5 percent yearly increase in agricultural output is a good one, considering
that it was achieved in spite of the limited availability of land, low
natural fertility and high acidity of the soil and a highly variable rain-
fall. Many factors are responsible for the good performance such as a
significant diversification of output, a very large application of fer-
tilizer, promoted by a favorable fertilizer-rice exchange ratio, and an
appreciable increase in double cropping, made possible by improvements in
irrigation and drainage facilities. Because of the intensive use of agri-
cultural inputs, particularly fertilizer, crop yields in Korea are among
the highest in Asia. Research and extension service systems are well de-
veloped and farmers have done a good job of absorbing available research
findings.
38.       Significant seasonal unemployment and underemployment exist in
the rural sector. However, labor shortages have been becoming more acute
during the peak demand periods, in the Spring and Fall. Although the
problem of the rural landless is not as acute in Korea as in many LDCs, the



- 13 -
small size of farms has given rise to significant differences in the labor
needs of farm households. Off-farm jobs and incomes, on a much expanded
scale, are important, therefore, if the small landowners are to improve
their relative positions in the rural sector. Fortunately, the high rural
literacy rate, presently over 90 percent, is a factor that should make the
farm labor more readily suitable for non-farm employment. The Government's
objective is to establish full parity between urban and rural households.
Programs designed for the purpose include a 2 percent annual increase in
the terms of trade in favor of farm households and a major effort to create
off-farm employment through the New Community Movement and other programs,
so that by 1981 off-farm income would contribute one-third of the income
of farm households. This objective would require that the number of workers
engaged in off-farm jobs should increase by about 100,000 a year and the
increase in labor productivity would be at an annual rate of 6 percent as
compared to 4 percent over the past decade. The decentralization of in-
dustry is a principal means of creating additional jobs in the rural areas.
Industrial Development
39.       In the late 1960s, the economy reached a turning point when the
farm population and agricultural employment began to decline in absolute
numbers. It is now evident that the solution to the problem of rural
poverty, unemployment and underemployment cannot and need not be sought in
the agricultural sector alone. The expansion of the industrial and tertiary
sectors are vital to an accelerated rate of growth of the incomes of farm
households.
40.       The present structure of the manufacturing sector reflects the
country's resource base in that industries are labor intensive and have
utilized Korea's relatively cheap, adaptive, industrious and literate
labor force. On the whole, the capital requirements of the existing
industries, relative to their outputs, have also been low.
41.       Korea's development strategy emphasizes the creation of off-farm
jobs through the decentralization of industry. Further rapid development
of small and medium industries is particularly important if income parity
between urban and rural families is to be realized. Small and medium
industries account for more than 90 percent of the total number of estab-
lishments in the manufacturing and mining sectors; they employ about 45
percent of the workers and contribute about one-third of the export of
manufactures. The sector faces a number of problems, including a shortage
of modern plant and equipment, the relative tightness of funds for invest-
ment and working capital, the relative backwardness of production and man-
agement techniques, and the uneconomic size of operations. Efforts to improve
the productivity of the sub-sector and expand its operations in rural areas
are being hampered by the current economic difficulties in Korea. The finan-
cial support provided by the Government is important to see these industries
through this difficult period.



- 14 -
Transportation
42.       The transport development strategy is to (i) provide appropriate
transport facilities for industrial and commercial complexes and urban
centers, (ii) serve the rapidly growing needs of rural communities, and
(iii) establish an efficient feeder link between the urban and rural areas.
In providing for the transport needs of the industrial and commercial cen-
ters, the development strategy calls for a pattern of industrial zoning
along the coastlines. A significant change in the freight traffic pattern
will probably, therefore, ensue. It is expected that the increase in port
freight traffic will be at about twice the rate of the growth of the eco-
nomy. The Government is now de-emphasizing the construction of high stand-
ard expressways, although new budget proposals aim at completing the exj:.ress-
ways that are presently under construction. Road specifications are expected
to conform more closely to expected traffic loads, and more funds are to be
provided for road maintenance and the upgrading of the secondary and tertiary
road network. Also, the New Community Movement has placed special emphasis
on the development of village roads. It is expected that by 1981 the share
of' road transport in freight and passenger traffic would increase by about
50 percent and more than 75 percent, respectively. The relative position of
the railroad would decline further from the position of transport dominance
that it enjoyed in the early 1960's. However, emerging problems stemming
from the indirect economic and environmental costs of individual vehicles,
as well as their high use of petroleum, suggest that rail transport will
continue to play an important role in serving traffic needs. Coastal ship-
p-ng is expected to improve moderately its share of freight traffic.
Education
43.       Six years of primary education is now required for all children in
the 6-11 age bracket. Some 69 percent of the children in the 12-14 age group
receive a three-year middle school education.  The high school enrollment of
teenagers in the 15-17 age bracket is 32 percent. More than 90 percent of
entrants at each of the primary, junior secondary and senior secondary
levels complete the cycle without delay. More than two-thirds of the
1973 graduates of technical high schools and junior technical colleges
found immediate employment in the fields in which they were trained. Re-
current expenditures per student are low, there are only moderate regional
and rural/urban enrollment differentials at the basic education level and
an increasing number of non-formal vocational training programs have been
developed to supplement the formal education system.
44.       During the 1974-81 period, shortages of skilled workers and cer-
tain categories of technicians are expecte3. In addition to reform of
some curricula, equipment, specialized facilities in technical secondary
education and teacher training are areas which require improvement.
45.       Considerable scope remains for upgrading the quality of education,
expanding vocational training programs, providing public financial support



- 15 -
for the rural schools at the middle school level and devising special edu-
cational programs for the poorer strata of Korea's rapidly expanding urban
societies. Korea's long-term development strategy recognizes these needs
and stresses that over the next several years improvements be made.
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
46.       As of January 31, 1975, Korea had received 16 Bank loans and 8 IDA
credits, amounting in total to $517.2 million in loans and $107.0 million in
credits (taking into account cancellations and the refinancing of one IDA
credit in a subsequent Bank loan).
47.       About one-half of the total has been for the transport sector -
$119.7 million for railways, $101.5 million for highways and $80 million
for ports. $130.5 million has gone to agricultural projects - $93 million
for irrigation projects, $7 million for livestock development, $10.5 million
for the provision of medium- and long-term credit through the National Agri-
cultural Cooperative Federation (NACF), $7 million for seeds production and
$13.0 million for an integrated agricultural products processing project.
The Korean Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $95 million
in Bank loans for relending to private industry. The balance of $97.8 mil-
lion was for two education projects, a tourism project, and a secondary
cities regional project.
48.       IFC has made six investments in Korea and its gross commitments
amounted to $21.1 million in loans and shares. 1/ It made its first equity
investment in KDFC, of $0.7 million or 14 percent of KDFC's paid-in capital,
at the time the Bank made its first loan to KDFC. A loan of $1.4 million to,
and an equity investment of $0.3 million in, the Honam Silk Co. was made in
1969. In 1971, IFC purchased $0.7 million of the shares of the Korea In-
vestment and Finance Corporation - an institution whose function is to assist
in the development of the capital and money markets; a further investment of
about $0.3 million was made in 1974. In July 1973, the IFC exercised
preemptive rights and purchased at par about $400,000 equivalent of KDFC's
common stock. In June 1974, IFC approved an investment of $17.3 million in
the Gold Star Company Ltd. consisting of a loan of $16.0 million and $1.3
million in equity. Gold Star is a leading electronics manufacturer. In-
vestments of $9 million in Tong Yang Nylon Co., Ltd., and about $3.5 million
in Hae Un Dae Development Co., Ltd. for hotel development have been approved;
an investment in the Korea Securities Finance Corporation is under consider-
ation.
1/   A seventh investment in the Atlas Paper Co. amounting to $5 million
was cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 16 -
49.       Of total Bank and IDA lending, about $278.1 million remained un-
d-'sbursed on effective loans and credits as at January 31, 1975. The rate
of disbursements has increased in recent months.   Annex II contains a summary
L.tatement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of that date
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated in the notes,
progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory, although
difficulties have been encountered with some projects and most seriously witn
the Pyongtaek-Kumgang and Yong San Gang Irrigation Projects (Loan 600-KO anl
Loan 795/Credit 283, respectively).
50.       The Bank's program for FY75 includes five projects in addition to
the proposed program loan:  the secondary cities regional project, a f-.st
loan to the Korea Development Bank, a third education project and a fifth
railway project. The first of these has been approved and all the other
projects have been appraised.
51.       The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development will be reflected in the programs for the succeeding years FY7r
and FY77. The report of the agriculture sector mission (R73-287, dated
December 19, 1973) provided the basis for developing additional high prior-
ity agricultural projects. A second livestock project, the second stage of
the Yong San Gang Irrigation Project, the Okseo irrigation and regional
development project and the Miho Cheon and Naeseong-Cheon watershed devel-
opment projects have alreadv been identified and are under preparation, anci
follow-on projects in agricultural credit and agricultural products process-
ing are also being considered.
52.       Another major emphasis in Korea's plans is the development of i4n-
dustries such as steel, shipbuilding, machine tools and petrochemicals.
Hitherto, the Bank's lending for industry to Korea has been solely through
the KDFC. As indicated, a loan for industrial development through a second
financial intermediary, the Korea Development Bank (KDB) - a Government-
owned institution responsible for the largest share of term lending for
industry in Korea - has already been appraised. Also under consideration
is a loan to the Medium Industry Bank which provides financing to smaller
businesses.
53.       The development of the industrial and agricultural sectors and of
exports will require concurrent infrastructural development. Although the
transport sector will be given relatively less emphasis than in the past,
the investments required are large, and thus there is considerable financ-
ing for this sector in the proposed program.
PART IV - THE PROGRAM LOAN
54.       Korea's remarkable economic growth is based on sound planning
and effective management. Its development objectives are expressed not
only in terms of overall quantitative growth but also in the sharing of



- 17 -
the benefits of growth among all income groups. In the face of the pres-
ent temporary slump in international trade, which threatens to cause con-
siderable dislocation and hardship, the Government has adopted economic
policies designed to minimize disruption of the economy and to maintain
growth, but at a reduced rate. It has also taken steps to assist the
lower income groups hardest hit by the combined effects of inflation and
recession, to provide jobs for the unemployed and to help the financially
hard-pressed private sector. Given the level of imports needed to carry
out this objective and the expected reduced level of exports, a substantial
shortfall in available foreign exchange is unavoidable in 1975. The Govern-
ment plans to make use of the IMF oil facility, and maximum efforts have
been and are being made to obtain funds from commercial and official sources.
It would be imprudent to reduce foreign exchange reserves further, so it is
necessary to seek the additional foreign exchange from other sources.
55.       It is recommended that a loan of $100 million be made to Korea at
this time in support of the Government's developmental programs. The Bank
Economic Mission, which recently returned from the field, is considering
Korea's financial requirements and debt servicing ability with a view to
shaping the Bank's future lending program for Korea. In these matters Bank
staff will continue to maintain close liaison with the IMF.
56.       In assessing the need for a program loan to Korea, the following
general criteria were considered:
(a) the country should have an ongoing development
program and should have taken and intend to take
supporting economic and financial policies which
provide a satisfactory basis for external assis-
tance; and
(b) the needed transfer of resources from external
lenders in support of the ongoing development
program cannot be achieved effectively and expe-
ditiously by the financing of investment projects,
including justifiable local currency expenditures.
I am satisfied that the proposed loan meets these criteria. It is also
fully consistent with my Interim Report on the Additional External Capital
Requirements of Development Countries to Deal with the Effects of the In-
creased Prices of Oil and Other Commodities, dated March 5, 1974, which
was distributed under cover of R74-43 (Rev.) of March 25, 1974, in which
I noted that the Bank can play a critically important role in this diffi-
cult economic situation by exploring all possible means of accelerating
the flow of resources to the developing countries, including program lend-
ing wherever circumstances require.



- 18 -
Categories of Imported Goods to be Financed
57.       The loan would be disbursed on the basis of the receipt of satis-
i:ictory evidence of purchase of and payment for imported items in the fol-
lowing categories:
General Description
1.   Finished structural parts and structures.
2.   Metal containers for storage and transport.
3.   Tools.
4.   Boilers.
5.   Pumps and Centrifuges.
6.   Heating and cooling equipment.
7.   Mechanical Handling Machinery.
8.   Mining Machinery.
9.   Metal Working Machinery.
10.   Electrical Machinery and Equipment.
Imported items in these categories are principally capital and intermediate
goods for export industries. This particular list of categories was se-
lected, rather than using a negative list, as representing categories of
imports for which purchases are normally made in cash and from a broad rang2
of supplying countries. Imports of goods in these categories in 1975 are
expected to exceed $1 billion equivalent, thus ensuring rapid disbursement
of this loan which will cover only a small portion of the total import re-
quirements.
Korea Exchange Bank
58.       The Korea Exchange Baak (iKEB) would be responsible for coordi-
nating the collection of relevant documentation and preparing withdrawal
applications under the loan. The KEB was created in 1966 by the Korea
Exchange Bank Act. Two-thirds of its capital of Won 30 billion was
subscribed by the Bank of Korea and one-third by the Government. The
President of KEB is appointed by the President of the Republic; the
Governors are nominated by the Minister of Finance and approved by the
President of the Republic.



- 19 -
59.       The KEB acts as the Government's foreign exchange bank.   It
handles 50-60 percent of Korea's total imports; the remainder is serv-
iced through six commercirl banks. The Ministry of Finance would circu-
late instructions to the commercial banks explaining the type of docu-
mentation to be forwarded to the KEB to form the basis of withdrawal
applications under the loan. A similar arrangement has worked satis-
factorily in the past in connection with USAID loans.
Import Regulations and Controls
60.       About half of the import categories covered by the Brussels
Trade Nomenclature are designated as "automatically approved" items in
Korea. KEB and the commercial banks may issue import licenses directly
for such items. For restricted items, a "recommendation" from the relevant
Ministry is required before a bank can issue a license. These are normally
given within one week of application. All importers belong to associations
which provide advice and assistance with respect to licensing procedures
and regulations.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       Goods purchased by private firms from Bank member countries (and
Switzerland) on the basis of normal commercial practices would be eligible
for reimbursement from the loan. Imports for which financing is provided
from other external sources would not be eligible nor would the Bank
reimburse for payments made before the loan is signed. Reimbursement would
be made by the Bank on the basis of import documents and evidence of payment.
It is expected that the proceeds of the loan would be fully disbursed well
before December 31, 1975.
Use of Counterpart Funds
62.       The lion equivalent of the imports financed under the project would
be credited by the KEB to the Special Loan Fund Account held by the Ministry
of Finance, a trust account into which the proceeds of all foreign loans
are paid and from which principal and interest on foreign loans are met.
Funds from this account are transferred to the Economic Development Special
Account which is used to finance capital expenditures on developmental proj-
ects, including those for which Bank financing is provided. Adequate provi-
sion has been made in the Economic Development Special Account to meet the
local currency requirements of Bank-financed projects in 1975.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article 1II, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a resolution



- 20 -
approving the proposed Loan are being distributed to the Executive Di-
rectors separately. The draft agreement follows the general pattern for
program loans.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 4, 1975



ANNEX 1
Page I of 3 pages
COOUNTRY DATA - K.ORA.
AREA                                              POUPLATION                                  DENSITY
96),177  kb2                                        32.  . minion (mid-1972)                      '.      PrIee      tbeln
SOCIAL INDICATORI
Reference Countries
K-re                    Thai land  turke-y      7aepa
SlIP PER CAPITA 15$ (ATLAS BASIS) ~~~~~~~~~     11,0h /e      310 ab          2211 Il.      370 ab     2,320 Lb
etr,i   r rate (per thousand)                                L. f          2                3            'I"3 /4   ?1.1/tf
Cr-de death rate (per thousand)                                lic8                          11           1   4p       6.6~
Infan  eutollty rate (Per thouand lIen birth.)               ..10-90                                     11. /        12iLL
Life epectany at birth (years)                                 56            69              59              Lxb        72
Green -reprduction rate /2                                    3.1 /fI       2.9             3.2            .6 /f'b     1.0
Popu lation groth rate  l-3 lAp                                             I.,/            3.1/          2.9/         I.1
PopuIlation growth rote - urban                                 7Li.          6/              ILL         .9/f
A,:ouiiiue(pcrccx.)
0-lI:                                                       ,1!           i.0/                          1:2        21.0 /f
15-61.                                                                      !7/            92, 4-                     89
6`4 oud over3                                                               3                351 2/       1         6.  Pc
Ag  drr-deocy rutlo /1,                                        .            03               0.9          0.           0.1-'
rorcIc depecorocy cello                                       it            1.1              .            1.1          c). 
Urhao, poplation as por-et of total                             1 /f         bil             259ii         386/Il       722/f
Fanily Plocoing:  N. of acceptors -oeulti- (thoon.)           .,.           .                             Lai,P idi
No. of u.or. (% of narried acene)           .             .                 t           6 
Total lbor fora, (thooooads)                                70           1,93&           16,500        1.,,90 /     93 ,020'
Pero..ntogo eeployod be ogricoltore                          76            1.8 ab          A1            63         1i.1
_ecn tage ooe-pl-y.d                                        7            .9 Ii,            1            1           1.1;
Pecn  f aooll ...e.oe  ro-eiod by highest 9%              17i/.0         9               174a36
Por"o" of nti-cal i-oe. recelued by highoet 20%                1.  n          7ft            1.6 6i.
Percc   of onticeal inen Ioc-joed by loost 20%                  7            in                7            3    t
Peran   of   t colcel Throe recived by lI.,ot 1.0%             7.3 ac        '1 /f-L         17 /io        10 /e.i.,,
DISIiIBUTION OFP 10ND OWEOlBIP
Snenedh    tepl% of -.oce                    ~7                              2..                    ~
% oaeed hy snalleNt 10% of -eeee                                3             2                           O. 0.
BEALTH ABS NUTRBITION
PopuIlation T.r physiolee                                   3.00 /o,o     2,210            7, 970       2,220          F380
Population per nuring person                                              I:. 1,62T0       6,650        1,820          21.0
Populetion per hoepita1 bed                                 2,6113 a      1,970              1350         1.90          00
Per -.P t. coterie supply as % of req,,risets 5                             103              IC,,         110          I o6
Pe rrcpit prten     opl,total (grass perhdayT~6                53            69              52            78           76
Of ehich, astal and pulse                                    17/           19 /5'o          1' lao
Death fete 1-i year. /7                                                                                    1    _       .
EDUCIATION
Adjustd /8 pric..y school nere1lent ratio                     96           701              80 f         1ll          110
Adjued7     scrar     schoe enrollment ratio                   27            LI              13 j          2            30
Ter  f echoolieg provided, first end second teet17171 11                                                17
VOoatiOnal enrollinoct as % of ee-  school enrolleut           IL.           05f              12    oh     1.2
Adult literacy rote                                           .                              70   f~       99/2d
Average No. of Persons per room (arbee)                       29 /- n       2.7             ..1.9                      1 .0 /
Percent aft-eepled oa,Ite ',itbhut piped eaere /o-f                          5I /af          .              1,
Acces to elec,triolty (on % of total pepulotlon)               211           90              17            1' a
Perroet of Coral pupolaticer cnnected to electricity    12            30              13            16, 7T
CONSUMIPTION
L1 eieeper 1000 pepubetton                             32           12,3 /f           E3/         10' 'h       652 /b
Passenger care per 1000 pepuletion                            0.1.            2T;              7/f          i          117 
Eleotrlctpower con,eocpti-n (loch p.c.)                        71           392 7E           161 T        3371 /bh   3,909 
N     Tlisepre  -ooo.ptioc P-c kg per yea                     1.8           3.7 7;           1.5 '7       2.2 l-b     19.6 9
NOtee, Fig-re   refer either te the 1oteet periods or to           aoo"t of enlro-metal teecpe-t-r, hedy aeihs         end
the lateest yeers. Lteet periods refer be principle to             dletriho,tion by age and -e of national poPolatione.
the yearns 1956-60 or 1966-70; the .tesnt y-r In pri-          /6  Protaie etandarde (requireete) for all con..triel as e.aten
ciplr to 1960 and 1970.                                            lished by 155DA E-oonl   eesarcn le-uco p-oid. for a eoini-
/f  The Per Cepie. GNP estie-nto ci rcorkh,t price  fora.one                 of 60 grau  of total Pr-tet  Per day, and 20 grac  of
yoore ether thai  90onclee       by the cane covereico         eni-Ia aced palee protein, of hich 10 green should he antea1
technique no the 0922 World Bunt itIan.                        protei.. Theae tsed.rde are so...eouai love  than those of 75
/f  Average ou,,ber of deoght.ero per ocen- of reproduction        gane of total protein and 23 Erac   of uiis-l protein as An
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aeage.                            ..g  for the word, proposed by PAl In thes Third Wenld Food
'aIibpe-i-olo  gronci  ot-c ore for the d-cd-c codlog in           Sorney.
1960 and 1970.                                             /7 lone st,di-tr  bne euggested Ohat -roe death rates of childre
AF Baic of poplatIon unodor 19 and 65 and over L. p.n-             agee i throgi I nay he icd an a first appr.n.i-tion tnde    of
e   f 0000 15-61. for age depeodeocy ratio acd to labor     nal-tritio.-
fore  f egee 15-61 . r -ccocic deprodocy ratio.         /8  Pereectage  cr. e   of coi-eporlog              , ltc  f sch-ol age
LiPAO rf-reor   ot-odnrdo repre.neo  poyalologloal. e-           ae' defined for each ott
qulr-e-te for -urol -ctiity and health, takiog
/a  Copoted by applying to the 1970 figure the g-oth rate of l:ip per capit.a In real tor_  fre-76     to 190;   /f  1972;
7;  96    /f  1965-70 UN eutirate;   /. Derived frorI S.eple Sorecy nei-Leat     (210,000 p-ernov), ecliig17 omropr--
Iors  f  1971;   L&  1966;    a   1965-67;   /f  1960-72;   /f  lecal city -ai culipaiino          ,00o     oe
ilobebtahue;   Lk  Orer 10,030 population;    /f   d,onrto       ceotere of   r-ei--n cud duite       "Vilayet' arid 'Knee"
rentore);   /f  Cities (nyhie-) h-viog 30,000 or cor  inhahitants;   /n  1950-55;    /f  l96t-J-oe 1971;   /f  86 perc-m
/t being IU 3m;  /5  Noployno labor fo Ie     r  15 yearn and -eer     L   Wage and ualary bos      f hooceculde;
Is  bounchido;  /u  rboc, o-y;  /,, Ditp-oblv loc-e;     /-  Soeber cc the rogleter-ot i1 nrkiog i,I tin rcontiy;
T;   Iie.~dcog aun. sta-t ursno and nidalono;    L. 1969;    Ia  Eoticato;   /e    1961.-66   /lab  into ccn c-ocnivai  doc-li-
refer to public ochocie arid tuc,laden teobloai.  do-tioii at the p-ot-ercodory level;   7-.   b-kutoricl-re;
lad  Plrnov  sic, yerar  old one  cer 000 tell the -eoe-  tkhre 11    htby  -mi read arid art t; --i._  Into refer. t  ..aoe-ldu;
T/af  Ilaer piped beide;    Lsa  lnid,, or outulde;   /ab  Perteota.ge of d-el1iogo aih elcrclight-ug;        /.i   196i;
/e  955C.tfl'.      F-~ yore cod 00cr.
aJ.lPar. a  b-e1oorlrte- 00 00   bj-i-rot-ce  O Oflde to thu~ stoilneltY of the present Ko rean... ecoic utr-tur   to that
of Japan tothe nlii-fiftlnn  (with the sane principle  rore    been, I.e-. , ef/Iiront, iod-etrlouo, cicp lorad te,,vy
rellcce to inp-t.d rho rMtren.Nre-eer,agoot,                  tropart, and etber     -ct-r  of the  --ooe  hoe.-  rIo
charactrricti-u   Kormn alo co, ic its hog-Tern. Plan (i972-il(, o pa~ttefn of lodoncria1 develipero     ouch ii cot-
very differeo  free trio coo J,pa.e pursed  iti. great ooce-o iu tl.c ioi
RL. February 21., i97is



Page 2 of 3Pagan
ICONOBICE DEVELSPOZr2 DATA SHEET
(aQoot. Jo   illiloo  of U.S. dollars)
Actoal                    ~~~~~~~~Prolested           1960-    1965-   1970-     1973-
19 60       1965       .L970         1973         1975         1979       1965_    1970    1975      1979      1960     1970      1979
NATION AS. ACCcUOTS                                    3 -ferAeesea          976      rcs&Eoeg           a                  A-.raa   Ano-Il Groth Rate            As Pe-ce     f GDY_
Cro.o  D So.et- Prod-ct                      3,167.6     4,34.3.0    7,752.0      9,760.8     11,766.2     16,306.2      6.s     12.8      10.2     8.9     100.2    100.1      101.6
Goloc Er~~e. Ter,oa of TRade It)  ~ -6.6       -24.0      -_6. 6       -142.2       -318.7       -251.4       ..       -        -                -0O.2     -0.1      -1.6
Cros   DoootiO Inoss                         3j6I.T6     4,319. 0    7,243.4      9,618.6     11,447.5     16,054.8      6.5     1f .9      9.6     6.9     100.0      000.0    100.0
,oc.P.  ,hod-. ;Fs)                            337.3       548.4    2,142.5       5,766.7      3,511.7      4,499.0     10.2     51.2     10.4      8.5      10.7      29.6      78.0
EaP.-t    (imp-t -ao-dsy,                      113.1       30.       1,301.7      2,36        _339          4,566.0     21.7     34.0     21.0     10.3       3.6      18.0      28.0
Res-se- Gap                                   .224.2      -245.9      -81.0.8      -230.7       -116.7         67.0      1-.1    29 .0   -35S .0   --7       -7.1     7 -11.6    -0.4
C--so9tlo- fopeadit--e                       3,075.5     3,862.3     5,926.2      7,720.9      9,242.5     12,355.0      4.6      9.0       9.3     8.2      97.3      81.0      77.0
In-ee-en     (lo1. st-ek.)                     309.7       702.6     2,158.0      2,190.5      2,301.5      3,633.3     17.0     25.5       1.5     8.8       9.8      29.0      22.6
D-t,oot     SooloO                              85.5       456.7     1,317.~2     1,959.8      2,704.8      3,700.3     40.0     23.5     10.8     11.2       2.7      18.2      23.0
N.ti-,oo  Sovlnog-5                            329.9       663.2     1,503.1      7,024.8      2,184.8      3,467.5     10.0     17.7       7.8     9.4      10.4      20.8      21.6
l8T.ChK;DIlSE T1AD01:~                                            Ano...1 D.te at Coereot Pri-e                                                                  A. Perc-t of Total
CapItol 00030                       ~~~~~      ~~~~~~70.0  73.0  590.0  1,180      1,527.0      2,470.0      0.0     01.4      21.0    13.6      163       29.6      24.3
':'P"s-   GedlaoGoslc.fes                       90.0       11.         404.0      1477.9       2,026.0      3,060.0      4.1     79.5     38.3     12.9      261.0     20.4      29.9
ol-,    od Related Met-i.al                     310          i10       136.0        387.       1,307.0      2,183.0      0.0     34.5      57.0    33.0        7.2      4.8      20.9
of soloO       I.t..ec                      28.0        2590       133.0        380.0      1,287.0      2,096.0      0.6     35.5     57.0     33.0      (6.5)     16.7)    (20.5)
Cooos~~~~~tlon Goods ~~~~~238.0                243 0       852.0      1,228.0      1 650.0           _6     _k0,.    28.       14.2     13.1      55,5      43.0     25.0
TotalMerchandise lports Icif)             'a2-90OA    457.0     1,982.0      4,240.9      6,510.0     10,2.28.0     1.3     34.4      36.7    15.0     100.0     100.0     100.0
Prinary Prodorts (cool, fools)     ~~37.0       64.0       131.0        314.0        337.0        362.4     11.6     15.4      20.6      2.4     67.3      14.9       4.4
tools aol Related  Materials        ~~~~3.0      2.0         9.0         55.0         43.0         70.0     -7.8     35.1     306. 7    4.1       5.4       1.0       0.8
..ofa-tr-d Co,,ds                              154        109.0       738.0      2,4.0        33    0      8_ 86       4 8.7    46.9      43.5     18.5      73        ~        9.
Total Oehodis- Eoport        (fob)              55.0       175.0       978.0      3,212.0      4,716.0      8,311.0     26.2     38.6      40.0    17.2     100.0     100.0     100.0
Too    -od  HDord- Tr-do                                     5.0        34.0        234.0        390.0        330.0       .      46.5      50.4      5.1
MchdicTsade "'l-do                                              Ace-ago 1967-69 = 100
foport Prict lodot                 ~~~~~       ~~~89.2  87.3  100.0     150.0        169.0       1215.0     -0.5      2.7      0.5      6.2
Inport Ps-ic. Iodeo                10~~~~~~I4.0  103.0     100.0        153.0         I195.0      337.0     -0.5     -0.5       8.9      7.6
Tore -of T-~d.    rd-o                          09.0        84.        100.0         980.0        86.7         90.7     -0.5      3.4      -3.0    -1.3
to Por ,VI,- od_1                               13.6        36.99      153.6        324.3        406.4       -542.9     22.0     33.0      16.1     9.0
VALUEt ADDED 05 SECTOR                                   Aa... I Data at1967-69 Poi-s 6 E-chao- R--to
Agrletr                                      1,303.4     1,684.0     2,025.2      2,226.5      2,431.4      2.832,3      .5.3     3.8       3.7      4.1      43.0      31.0     70,0
I.d-oo ts-   ol Minin                          311.2       540.0     1,318.5      3,241.6      3,000.7      4,556.9     11.7     19.7      17.8     12.1      10.0     70.0      33.0
Ser-i-                                       1 306.1     1.715.0     3.162,0      4 249.1      4,873.9      6,632.0       5.6    13.0       9.1      9.3      45.0      49.0     47 
Total                                        2,920.7     3,939.0     6,505.7      8,717.2     10,306.0     14,821.2       6.1    10.5       9.6     10.8     100.0     100.0     100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE;
(Ce-tral GvrOt
Corr-o   Re.-lpto                              388.4       394.6     1,212.1      1,207.4      1,695.4       2.990,3      0.3    25.2       7.0     16.4      13,0      19.0      180.
C_rrent Ecpotodi tor-                          421.2       374.2      0_83.2      1,010.0      1,9.         2,491,9     -2.4     18.8       7.9     16,3      14,0      14.0      15.0
lodgetaY b"Ings                                -32.0        20.4       328.9        192.4        399.9        498.4        .     73.0       3.9     17.2     -10        -5.0     3.0
Othe-   oblii  Sector lo-i.g                    16.8        49,7       168.5            .,.                        .     24.0    27.         ..       .        1.0       3.0       2.0
P.bjir SecItorlvso                             108.2       165.8       472.6        364.0        571.0'        747.6      8.9)   23.2       3,9     12.7       4.0       7.0       4,0
ODETAIL 0N                    At 1967-69 Pricos     As Porc..t of Total
CURET.   f2,PEND.ITl6  DETAILS                          Act-el                                       tot,          PUBLIC SECTS3!1                Plea        Plan        Plan       PIao
(AsDToa      oatOn    lp-nd. (                    1965       1970        1971         1972          1973          INVESTMENT PROGRAM          (1967-713   11973-81)   (1967-71) (1973-81)
fd-ctln                                         15.0        15.0         17.0         16.0         16.0          Soca    otrO317                            5,116    -2 9.0        42.0
Other Social S-rie-                             10.0        14.0         11.0         14.0         15.0          A r    1ltr                       64       2,835        b,0       23.0
gri-alt-r                                       10.0         9.0         8.0          9.0          70           MIlogadMrfatrn                     2       1,6           .          .
Oth-r Etonsi    DS-vIce                         19.0        16.0         18.0         20.0         16.0          power                             26           t        2.0 
Ad.sioist-roole  and Dofe-s                     36.0        37.0        28.0          27.0         29.0          Transport -dl
Other                                           10.0         9.0        100    18.0               17.0             C-noonOctions                 479       3.167       43.0       2.
Total Correct feperditoros         ~~~~100.0    100.0       100.0        100.0        100.0          0is                               29          51       12.0          -
Total                          1,107      12,233      100.0      100.0
08E.ECTED tND.IrATIRS                                         1960-       1965-        1970-         1973-         P3ACN~
1965        1970         1975           1978          Poblir Saviogs                1,481.                   69.0
A-O.,g%lC COR                                                 2.2         2.4          2.8           2.8           Pr.g-og   Aid                    485           .       22.0
T.part fl-ticfcv.-                                            1.6         2.8          111.0 8/                    F-riga Borr-ial (Net)             61           .        3.0
7..aRo  -,etic S-viogs Rate                              0.30,       0.30        10.2 2         0.29-         Doncotic Bor-ing (tat)           122            .       6.0
K.oelo-l NatIonal SavioRs Rate                                0.29        0.30         0.18          0. 23!!       Total219                                               0.
LABOR F0ORCE ASID                                                  Total Labor Fao-                             Valon Added Per Wo-k- (1967-69 Prfcs &nE-h. Iat-s)
OLTPrOT PER WoPkDO                                  In MIllifo-             i of Total          1960-70-          In U.S. Dollars        i of Assere-        1960-70
196        1970   ~   1960        1970     Growth Rtat          1960       1970      1960        1970   Groth Rlato
Agricsl tore                          ~~~~       ~~~~        ~~~        ~~~4.6  4.8  60  51  0.4      282        419         68         62        4.0
Irdos try                             ~~~~       ~~~~         ~    ~    ~~    ~    ~~0.5  1.3  7  13  10.1  063  986        135        145        5.8
Gorvllta                              ~~~~       ~~~~        ~~~        ~~     ~    ~~1.9  3.5  27  316  6.1  701  930      169        137        2.8
Tetal                                               7.0        9.6        105        100          3.1              416        603        108        100        5.8
not available                             at   1967                              .1/  Fl-ta1 Plao
o.t appllable                              h/  Control Govrrnot                  a!l  Raced -0 thre.-y-a rovr-ge
o  aaf   Lnlt                                 /  Official (OPE)                    f/  1973 Is InIladad
o  IssdedtJ inserIal letors                                                        j/     _IOeld. osrret tr--f-r fo-t)



P?g5 3 of 3 P-99
'~.~oet  is~414~osOU.S. dol3.ars at osrrtnt Pric8s)
AeS. k-Aln.n
Antoal  Rat4a~~~~~~~.ted  ~ ~ ~ ~          P~~Oo25545d                               O~~~~rowth Rat.
1969        1970       1971        1972        1973          194         17         L97         1977        - 199    I 81         173
SUMKA82Y 08A,AN0E 0F PAThDTS
9po,te (A-1. 08'S)                    1.113       1, 341    1.587       2,205       4,049         5,045      5,714       6,499       7.4          .1         291I 
Th,pns-tej.3943.. 0013)  l~~~~~~~Q3.  2.107     251         66          44           4~036       6827        7.686      L22,9.7                 13 20         .t
)Th997iF~~~~ 0~3j~~iF4 TX-MI  -790  ~~~~~  ~~         -40          ZT          -1,011     -1,113      -117        -,7           -81          22
Oct 'ai (ae3 )   9  3       37        97         140        -150         ~~~~~       ~~~~~       ~~~~~      ~~~~~   ~    ~~~~   ~~-167  -193  -261  -431.  -684  -977  247'
DIrcO'. intns5nc:.t Income 5                                                .40           -7 91  -10  -1 0  -60  -80        -85         -138        -164        21.2
Wnrkcrn  RenOttoolCee        ~~~~    ~   ~~(441  (33)  (25)     (19)          ---
Prorate Direct :nneseO,set     0~   ~    ~~~6 38     56         47          149           200        250         2 7         300         359)        O.5         14.0
Clffin.i.,Il Cpi la Or-t.                56         122       135         -16           --
N'blic 344LT l.osce15                                                                                                    142          .15        176          ,3
01 sharE rents              4~~    ~   ~~~~      ~~666  422  593  721      693         1,027                              -33 .45 8452  05,66     1390.
V   ____                           112        -205      -237        -216        -256          -243        -231       -247       -,2392       1-95       -9009          7.0
I4n1 T Sns nt                        17          78        37          49          52            84          95         107        122          133         114        131.4
a  sits                    ~~    ~    ~~    ~   ~~~    ~    ~~-3  -8  -10  -9  -16    -19         -26         -19        -26          -2-42.
Shorl-Trcn 1~~~~~~~p~~i5I     7~~7       249        224        -91           45                                                                               1 00 37  9i3
IC:: egI in3p0 Oee-e-62                            -57         49        -195        -325         DEBT A)1D 0007 50005(0,02
F on05      5lele                        -6        -16          6          41           -         ('bhi, D5,t CO.t. &          Jbrsi  4B0  1,696  2,097     2.599      3.8!
lfF'jcia,l 33r-t,,  4 )l...t-lik.         -          -          -           -                       (drs     n   iblihc 04bt      32       61        5                    0
0 Irons                                                             Oel5Slnnnc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F py too Os 9bll. Debt  112  205  2377  716  2306
Pbho- 0.T3.  -                                                                                      Tct00Pobi     eb  er1         144     264       327       30          79.
NqRD ~~~~~~~~65                          40        85          73          193          i9Dr ebt            Mty-c   st)  5     14        02        23         77
2310,                                 15         15          7          06          20           Po-O D)t erI       (sot)     149      279       349       131        385
ADB                                    25          20        01          69          100
atoor Osltol;,ter.sl  -               -           -            -        3hor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FAd.n 05 E431r3t 52r3Os3  8
ii vrn-tc                           154        221        309         409         350
l!cplol4ere                  7~~   ~    ~~~~      ~~~97  139  204  159                   PubJAn Debt S-ri-c            10.0     19.0      20.46      ,           .
Pf._sn.1   o3tit5114                              119        11         106                       T 354  Debt S-rice T_         13.4     20,0      22.0      95.0          .
0or~~~~~~~~~1n  -          -          -           -           -           P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DS'Dtrect  DhIst  n.- 14.3  23.6  12 7.    :.
TOoli, L.an a...30                                 -         -           - 
Tntaa 0sb1j~~~ .94-iT 405000 ~~702        572       697         790           T         O-neTrsof         silcDb
004051 Debt Oatetssdlng oDc.3.Tnt, -n I Prior Ye- (4740                                  3,5      4.1       5.3       4.4        4.3
'ATERIAL DRBT,            Ili-bl ~~~~~~~~pecet                                        -tosrt as  Pri-r Yesr 1940   12.1    13.8      14.0      10.3         .9
41cr-d Bunk                                    %1                      T7-
T3A                                             471:'                  I.,                        T940 Debt. Ot. &, D4nbsrnd       5.3      9.6      40.2      04.7       130.4
APB3                                            31.                    1.I                         '   s 0 Ribli.c D4bt 542        0,2      9.6       1.9       3.4         .
Occsr,c,.,ats                     1,1~~~~~~~~~~~~'l77.5    43.5                         "  a     8 mbSic Debt Ser-ie      -      9.4       0.7       7.2        7
7nnplirrs                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~                      ~~937.9  36.2                                                                  4,
F im,sial Tattton294.4                                                11.4                        1DA Debt WSt. e, Dilltursed      2S,6     25,7     35.9       711
B.,~~~~~~~~~d,           -                      -                        .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a -   %   Nbl4c  Debt  1342  1.7  1.3'  1.9  1.9 
(':2,010 Debo s.                                 9.0                   0.2                            as 8 PbIic Debt Se-ic-       0,1      0.1       0.1       5.1         I1
i,41Public F&L1, Debt                     2,599-                   07-
Other KTT, Debts                               206.8
czhnrt-t,e- Deb t (disb. _ly)
- - esi ansi miSc                               - e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~li or regligible  29  1969-72 fig-nc  i-cludo ist-et
nor. acatluble separstoiy                   -- eI.. tihac h.3t the
but iOccd.sd ic total                                           esahlt ssst she-



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as at January 31, 1975)
Loan or                                                   US$ Million
Credit                                             Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year      Borrower        Purpose        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Five loans and credits fully disbursed             24.7     39.7
600       1969  ADC              Irrigation        45.0               8.0
151       1969  Republic of      Education                  14.8      3.3
Korea
669       1970 Republic of       Railways          40.0               2.9
Korea
234       1971  Republic of      Livestock                   7.0       .4
Korea
735       1971  KDFC             Dev. Fin. Co.     30.0               1.3
769       1971 Republic of       I1ighways         54.5               1.4
Korea
283       1972  Republic of      Irrigation                 15.0      7.8
Korea
795       1972  ADC              Irrigation        33.0              32.4
335       1972  Republic of      Agricultural Cr.           10.5      3.9
Korea
863       1972  Republic of      Railways          40.0              18.3
Korea
905       1973  KDFC             Dev. Fin. Co.     40.0              11.6
906 &     1973  Republic of      Education II      23.0     20.0     42.8
394             Korea
917       1973  Republic of      Ports             80.0              77.9
Korea
942       1973  Republic of      Seeds Production   7.0               6.9
Korea
953       1974 Republic of       Tourism           25.0              25.0
Korea
956       1974 Republic of       Highways II       47.0              34.2
Korea
994 /     1974 AFDC              Agriculture       13.0              13.0
1070 La    1975  Republic of      Secondary Cities  15.0              15.0
Korea
Total                                        517.2    107.0    306.1
of which has been repaid                    11.8      0.3
Total now outstanding                        505.4    106.7
Amount sold                    2.0
of which has been repaid     0.8             1.2
Total now held by Bank and
IDA (prior to exchange adjustment)         504.2    106.7
Total undisbursed                            270.8     35.3    30.
La Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1975)
Amount in US$ million
Year     Oblipor                 Type of Business        Loan  Equity   Total
1968     KDFC                 Development financing       -      0.7     0.7
1969     Honam Silk Co.       Textiles                  1.4       0.3     1.7
1970     Atlas Paper Co.      Pulp and paper             4.5      o.5     5.o
1971     Korea Investment     Capital market              -       0.7     0.7
and Finance Corp.    development
1973     KDFC                 Development, Financing      -       0.4     0.4
1974     Gold Star & Co.      Electronic Products       16.0      1.3   17.3
Ltd.
1974     Korea Investment     Capital market              -       0.3     0.3
and Finance Corp.    development
Total gross commitment                      21.9      4.2    26.1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       9.6      0.5    10.1
Total commitments now held by IFC           12.3      3.7    16.0
Total undisbursed                            8         -      8.9
* Cancelled at the request of the Company



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 Pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -/
Loan No. 600        Pyongtaek-Kungang Irrigation Project; US$45.0 million
Loan of May 23, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The Project includes irrigation for about 35,000 ha, improvement
of drainage and roads, consolidation of paddy fields, benching of upland and
tidal land reclamation. Construction was delayed by a reorganization of the
executing agency and a delay in hiring consultants. The major project com-
ponents (two sea dikes, the main distribution system and pumping plants)
were largely completed by the end of 1974. Contracts for nearly all of the
remaining work have been awarded.   Cost considerations have led to the exclu-
sion of about 5,000 ha of land from the project. Costs have risen from US$90
million at appraisal to about US$130 million largely because of the increased
costs of right-of-way, engineering, administration and land consolidation.
Preliminary estimates indicate increases in the price of rice will partially
offset the effects of higher costs and reduced irrigable area. The economic
rate of return is now estimated to be about 10 percent, compared with the
appraisal estimate of 14 percent. Thie implementing agency (ADC) has re-
viewed ways of economizing on the remaining work which should lead to some
marginal cost savings. About 82 percent of the Loan has been disbursed.
Construction is progressing satisfactorily and is scheduled for completion
by mid-1976,
Credit No. 151       First Education Project; US$14.8 million Credit
of June 4, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
This Project comprises: (a) the expansion and equipping of 27
technical, commercial and agricultural high schools, 5 post-secondary
higher schools and 4 university teacher training departments; and (b) 26
man-years of technical assistance and 20 man-years of overseas fellowships
to support the development of agricultural and technical education. Project
implementation, which was slow at commencement, has improved and the project
is now 12 months behind schedule compared with the 15 months delay estimated
a year ago. All civil works, furniture procurement, technical assistance
and fellowships have been completed; 70 percent of the equipment has been
procured and the remainder is expected to be delivered during 1975. The
Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the present Closing Date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform LUe Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Loan No. 669        Third Railway Project; US$40.0 million Loan and
Credit No. 183      US$15.0 million Credit of May 14, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975
The bulk of the Loan and Credit was earmarked for the purchase of
freight cars, diesel locomotives, and telecommunications and track mainte-
nance equipment. Progress is generally satisfactory except for delays in
the procurement of some microwave equipment which has been re-tendered.
Credit No. 234       Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project;
US$7.0 million Credit of February 11, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The development of about 700 small and medium-sized dairy farms
by providing long-term loans and the construction and operation of two
dairy products processing plants are the principal components of the
Project which also includes the provision of management and technical
services. Project execution has been satisfactory. To date, about 591
farmers have participated and farm loans of about US$4.5 million equivalent
have been approved. About 4,900 head of cattle have been purchased and two
dairy plants have been constructed and are in operation. The proceeds of
the Credit, except those earmarked for technical services, are expected
to be fully committed by the end of this month.
Loan No. 735         Third Korea Development Finance Corporation Project,
US$30 million Loan of May 14, 1971; Closing Date:
August 31, 1975
The Project is progressing satisfactorily. The Loan is fully
committed.
Loan No. 769         First Highway Project; US$54.5 million Loan of
June 29. 1971; Closing Date:   November 30, 1975
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December, 1973,
at a final cost about five percent above the appraisal estimate. Feasi-
bility studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km
and 900 km of national highways, respectively. A study of road maintenance
and the establishment of a pilot maintenance organization to form the basis
of the creation of a country-wide Highway Maintenance Organization which is
being carried out under the Second Highwav Project.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Loan No. 795        Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; US$33.0 million Loan
Credit No. 283      and US$15.0 million Credit of February 2. 1972; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
This Project aims at transforming an area with the highest drought
frequency in Korea into one with year-round irrigation and crop diversifica-
tion. Also, there will be increased production of high value crops such as
fruits and winter vegetables. Design work is proceeding satisfactorily and
the work on four dams, the main canals and land consolidation has started.
Atward of the three remaining major contracts anticipated for canals and land
consolidation will be delayed until next summer, with construction to start
after the rice harvest, i.e. roughly a year later than scheduled at appraisal.
The delay was caused mainly by financial difficulties attributed to price
escalation and design modification. The cost increases will be partially
compensated for by benefits attributable to the enlargement of the area to
be irrigated by about 1,400 ha.
Credit No. 335      Agricultural Credit Project:   US$10.5 million
Credit of September 29, 1972; Closing Date:
September 1. 1976
The Credit supports a three year lending program to small farmers
to develop orchards, sericulture and mushroom production and to encourage
the breeding of poultry and swine. It also finances an organizational and
accounting study of the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
and the strengthening of its training facilities. The Project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and its disbursement is proceeding on schedule.
Loan No. 863         Fourth Railway Project; US$40.0 million Loan of
November 22. 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The main elements of the Project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; about 90 percent of the Loan pro-
ceeds have been committed.
Loan No. 905         Fourth KDFC Project; US$40.0 million Loan of June 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Loan No. 906        Second Education Project; US$23.0 million Loan and
Credit No. 394      US$20.0 million Credit of June 13, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The Project provides equipment for and extensions to the buildings
of: 18 technical and 14 agricultural high schools; ten higher schools/junior
colleges for industrial, agricultural, fishery and nursing training; colleges
of agriculture, engineering and natural sciences in nine universities and a
merchant marine college; and ten junior teacher colleges and 12 colleges of
education. It also includes pre-investment studies on health and management
education. Project implementation has improved and is now six months behind
schedule compared with nine months a year ago. Construction and equipment
procurement are proceeding satisfactorily. Cost overruns on civil works,
to be financed by the Government, are expected to be large due to the recent
sharp increase in building construction costs. It is expected that the Proj-
ect will be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 917        Ports Project; US$80 million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project includes the provision of container and bulk cargo
facilities and equipment at Busan and coal piers and handling equipment
at Busan and Mukho. Some contracts for dredging and pier construction
have been awarded. The design-work and preparation of tender documents
for the remaining items are proceeding satisfactorily. Revised cost
estimates show an increase of about 30 percent over appraisal estimates.
A Phase II Port Development Study and consultants' services in connection
with the establishment of a "Korean Port Authority" are proceeding satis-
factorily.
Loan No. 942        Seeds Project; US$7.0 million Loan of November 16,
1973; Closing Date: December 31. 1978
The Project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed produc-
tion; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation of
a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irrigation
and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The Office of Seed Pro-
duction and Distribution was established in November, 1974. The Government
is finalizing a contract for consultant's services.



ANhNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Loan No. 953        Kyongju Tourism Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
mnent of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multi-purpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
cf Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or re-
alignment of about 57 kms of roads; infrastructure including storm water
drainage, environmental sanitation, community facilities, a golf course, a
school for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the devel-
opment of tourism on Cheju Island. The Loan was declared effective on May 6,
1974. Final design for almost all Project components is complete and the
first four contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 956         Second Highway Project; US$47.0 million Loan of
January 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project, which forms part of the Government's 1972-76 road
construction and paving program, consists of the construction, chiefly on
new alignments, of about 130 kms of highways; feasibility studies by con-
sultants of about 1,000 kms of national and provincial roads, followed by
detailed engineering where justified; and the procurement of highway main-
tenance and workshop equipment for the extension of a new highway maintenance
program from a pilot province to the remainder of the country. All construc-
tion and paving contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 994         Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
US$13.0 million Loan of June 7, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The Project aims at integrating the on-farm production of com-
mercial crops for export with efficient hygienic processing facilities
using land that is presently idle or underutilized. It comprises (i)
on-farm development of asparagus, oak mushrooms and mushrooms; (ii) con-
struction of and improvements to facilities to process asparagus, oak
mushrooms, mushrooms and fruits; and (iii) technical assistance including
training of staff, services of consultants, etc. The terminal date for
effectiveness of the Loan has been extended to April 15, 1975, to provide
additional time for recruiting a Project Manager. The selection of a
proposed Project Manager has been approved and, consequently, the Loan
will be declared effective shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 Pages
Loan No. 1970        Secondary Cities Regional Project; US$15.0 million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The principal aims of the Project are the establishment of an or-
ganizational framework for regional investment, planning and development and
to improve working and living conditions in the secondary cities of the less
developed Gwangju region. The main elements of the Project are: (i) housing
sites and services in the cities of Yeosu, Mogpo and Gwangju (370,384 m2);
(ii) a fishery harbor complex with industrial processing zone (215,385 m2)
in Yeosu; (iii) a city market in Suncheon City (33,160 m2); and (iv) access
roads in Yeosu and Mogpo (6.61 km). It also provides technical assistance
to strengthen regional planning and development, to improve the utilization
of existing water supply systems in the four cities, to assist the manage-
ment and operation of the fishery complex and to carry out feasibility
studies of project proposals identified under the UNDP-financed Phase II
Regional Study.



ANNEX III
KOREA
PROGRAM LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                      The Republic of Korea
Amount:                        US$100 million
Terms:                         20 years, including five years of grace, at
8 1/2 percent per annum.
Project Description:           To help meet foreign exchange requirements
for the import into the Republic of Korea
by the private sector of essential capital.
and intermediate goods.
Estimated Disbursements        The entire loan amount is expected to be
disbursed by December 31, 1975.
Procurement Arrangements:      Only goods purchased by firms in the
private sector from Bank member countries
(and Switzerland) on the basis of normal
commercial practices through cash trans-
actions would be eligible for reimbursement.



Table 1: EXPENDITURE ON GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT, 1970-75
(Billion won at constant 1970 market prices)
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974a/    1975h/
Consumption                 2 ,166    2,392     2,552    2,753      2,839     3,0L40
Gross capital formation       704       749       668      922      1,045     1,075
Fixed investment            650       681       659       852       870       920
Increase in stocks           54        68         9       70        175       155
Exports of goods and
non-factor services         381       L,59      643    1,034      1,086     1,L75
Imports of goods and
non-factor services         642       749       801    1,087      1,120     1,490
Statistical discrepancy       -32         2       -26       -72       -         -
Gross domestic product      2,577     2,829     3,036    3,549      3,850     4,100
Net factor income              12        -2       -12       -27       -50       -70
Gross national product      2,589     2,827     3,024     3,523     3,800     4,030
GNP deflator                             12.5     15.5      11.2       38.8      16.6
v Estimate based on data aipplied by Korean authorities.
hl Projected by mission.
Source: 1970-73 Bank of Korea, Economic Statistics Yearbook, 197L.



Table 2: EXPENDITURE ON GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT, 1970-73
(Billion won at current market prices)
1970     1971     1972     1973
Consumption                               2,166     2,693    3,282    3,839
Gross capital formation                    72.        806      805    1,292
Fixed investment                           650      730      780    1,169
Increase in stocks                         54        76       25      123
Exports of goods and non-factor
services                                  381       514      814    1,578
Imports of goods and non-factor
services                                   642      866    1,013    1,740
Statistical discrepancy                      -32        7      -13       -4
Gross domestic product                     2,577    3,15h    3,875    4,966
Net factor income                             12       -2      -15      -37
Gross national product                     2,589    3,152    3,860    L,929
Source: Bank of Korea



Table 3: ORIGIN OF GROSS NATICUAL PRODUCT
Current Market Prioes     Constant 1970 Market Prioes,-
1970 1971 1972    1973   1970 1971 1972    1973 1974131975 b/
Agrioulture                 725   91 1,095 1,237      725   748  761   803   827   850
Industry                    591   719   941 1,362     591  690   794 1,036 1,231 1,350
Social Overhead Capital     345   400   478   613     345   368  389   483   518   550
Services, E-cl. Rest of
the World                 917 1,J124 1,361 1,754    917 1-,023 I,-092 1,227 1,274 13350
Gross Domestic Product     2,577 3,15143,875 4,966  2,577 2,829 3,036-3,5549 3,850 4,100
Rest of the World            12    -2   -15   -37      12    -2  -12   -27   -50   -70
Gross National Product     2,589 3,152 3,860 44,929  2,589 2,827 3,024 3,523 3,800 4,030
a/ Estimate based on data supplied by Korean authorities.
b/ Projected by mission.
Source:  1970-73, Bank of Korea; Economic Statistics Yearbook, 1974.



Table 4: SUMMARY BAIANCE OF PAIMEJiTS
(In milions of U.S. dollars)
Actual               Estimated    Projected
1972   ~  - 1975            1974         1975
Current Account                      -370        -308           -1.440        .1,66o
Merchandise (net)                  -574        -              -1,360        J,g
Exports                     :1,676       3,271            4,770          ,100
Imorts                       2,250       3,837            6,130         7,650
Services (net)                       34          68             -330          -360
Receipts                       551         850              84          1,050
Payments                       517         782            1,175         1,110
Transfers (net)                     170         190              250           250
Official                        51          35               50            5
Private                        119         155              200           200
Capital Account (net)                 478         741              790         1.025
Direct InvestDent                    47         141              170            200
Other Private MLT (net)             217         249              320           300
Private Short-tem  (net)            -16          84              140   -       175
Public MLT (not)                    230         267              160            350
Errors and Omissions                   40          17               -
Overall Balance of Payments                                       -650           -635
Monetat   Sector Reservres-
ot. (net)                          148        -450             +650           +635
Coiercial Banks (net) g/           -229 
Central Monetary Inst. (net)         81        -334              650
Iadl. BOK positins (net)             81        -307              510
IMF (not)                       -1         -18              140
Other (net)                      1          -9
g/ Imports and exports are fo.b. the latter includes sales of goods to military forces
abroad.   Data for 1972-73 are from Bank of Korea. 197h and 75 are an estimate
and projection, respectively, by the mission.
g/  'Comuercial banks' covers Korea Exchange Bank and other banks in Class "A" that deal
in foreign exchange business, including domestic branches of foreign banks.



/1
Table 5: EXPORTS, MAJOR CATEGORIES-
(US$ million)
(Percentage Growth Rates
over Previous Periods)
1970  1971  1972  1973   1973      1974    1971  1972  1973   19714
Jan-Sept Jan-Sept                    Jan-Sept
Plywood             92   124    154   271    201      133   (35%) (24%) (76%) (-34%)
Textiles            79    130   167  I404    299      348   (65%) (28%)(1142%)  (16%)
Clothing           161    227   305   434    297      420   (41%) (314%) (142%)  (41%)
Electrical
Machinery          44    68   125   313    209      361   (55%) (84%)(150%)   (73%)
Wigs, etc.         101     70    74    82     614      58  (-31%)  (6%) (11%)   (-9%)
Fbotwear            17    37     55   106     70      139  (118%) (49%) (93%)   (99%)
Textile Fibre       36    39     54    73     47       59    (8%) (38%) (35%)   (26%)
Iron and Steel        8    20    68   129     83      209  (150%)(240%) (90%) (152%)
Sab-Total          538   715 1,002 1,812   1,270    1,727   (33%) (40%) (81%)   (36%)
As Percent of
Total Exports     614   67     62    56     60       50
Total Exports      835 1,068 1,624 3,225   2 128    3,424   (28%) (52%) (96%)   (61%)
/1 F.o.b. customs clearance and excludes sales to military forces overseas.
Source: Bank of Korea



TnblJ 6: IMPORTS BY END USE
(In millions of U.S. dollars cif)
1970     1971     1972     1973      1974/d  e1975L
Current Prices/
Grains                                    247      304      283      444       650      750
Other consumer goods/                      76      105      129      217    _ 400       1450
Petroleum and products                 _ 133       187      218       293    1,050    1,275
Other raw materials and                                              -
intermediates                           916    1,085    1,101   D288       3,100    L.025
Capital goods                             612      713      791    I_198     12700    2,100
Total                                   1,984    2,394     2,522    4.,240   6,900    8,600
Constant Prices/C
Grains                                    247      327      298      224       216      242
Other consumer goods                       76      106      130       170      215      215
Petroleum and products                    133      154      157      168       188      205
Other raw materials and
intermediates                           916    1,096    1,107    1,635    1,673     1,880
Capital goods                             612      720      795      938       917      940
Total                                   1J984    2,1403   2,L487   3s135     39209    3,482
Price IndicesL/C
Grains                                    100.0     93.0     95.1     198.6    302.5  313.2
Other consumer goods                      100.0     99.0     99.5     127.7    185.1   215.7
Petroleum and products                    100.0    121.5    139.0     174.4    558.1  622.1
Other raw materials and
intermediates                           100.0     99.0     99.5     127.7    185.1  215.7
Capital goods                             100.0     99.0     99.5     127.7    185.1  215.7
Average                                   100.0     99.6     101.3    135.2    215.0  247.0
/a  Current price data; 1970-73 BOK
1974-75 Mission
/b  SITC 0 (excluding cereals and animal feeds) plus SITC 1, plus miscellaneous manufac-
tures other than scientific instruments
/c  Calculated by mission
/d  Estimate by mission
/e  Projection by mission
Sources:  Bank of Korea and data supplied by Korean authorities to the Bank mission.



T-able 7:  EXPORT AND IMPORT PRICES, EXTERNAL TERMS OF TRADE, 1970-1975
1970      1971      1972       1973      1974      1975
Exports
Current value fob (million $)        835      1068      1624      3,225       T770     6,oo
Unit price index (1970=100)          100.0      98.8      99.9      126.5     169.6     195.5
Imports
Current value cif (million $)       1984      2394      2,522     4,240      900     8moo
Petroleum and products             133       187       218        293      1,050     1,275
Other imports                     1851      2,207     2q04      3,947      5850      7,325
Unit price index (1970=100)          100.0      99.6     101.3      135.2     215.0     247.0
Petroleum and products             100.0     121.5     139.0     174.4      558.1     622.1
Other imports                      100.0      98.1      98.9      133.0     193.6     217.9
Terms of trade (1970=100)
Including petroleum                  100.0      99.2      98.6      93.6       78.9      79.1
Excluding petroleum                  100.0     100.7     iO1.0      95.1       87.6      89.7
Source:  1970-73:  Bank of Korea; 1974-75 mission estimate and projection, respectively.



Table 8:  IMPORTS OF PETROLEUM PM   PRDDUCTS
Estimated  Projected
197()   1911    1972     1973           1974        1975
Crude Oil (million blls)   69      85      93       103          113          123
Value (U's. dollars)      119     179      221      310         1,080       1,31'k
Unit Price (US$/barrel)     1.7      2.1     2.lh     3.0           9.6        10.
Sources:  1970-73 Ministry of Commerce and Industry data; 1974 and 1975 are the
mission's estimates and projections, respectively.



Table 9: SUKMARY OF NATIONAL BUDGET, 1973-75
(Billion won)
Revist         Budget
Actual         Budget         Proposals
1972  1973        1974           1975
Total Revenue                            511   605         934          1 143
Tax Rvenue                             3      3          7185
OtherJ                                 137   166         216            285
Total Expenditures                       651   652         996         1 262
Current Expenditures                   461   75         732            889
Defense                              174   183         2946.,        353
Capital Expenditures                   190   177 .       263 7          373/
Current Account SurplusJ/                 50   131         202            254
Total Budgetary Deficit v                140    46          61           119
Deficit on Non-budgetary Accounts         22    70         170            190
Overall Deficit*                         162   116         231            309
Financing of deficit
Domestic Non-market Borrowing (net)        9    11          21             24
Borrowing from the B.O.K. (net)           92.8/ 61         170            190
Foreign Borrowing                         89    71          4o             95
Counterpart Funds                          4    -           -              -
Cash Balances                            -32   -28          -
1/ Includes supplementary budget.
Customs duties, monopoly profits, non-tax revenues and foreign grants.
S/ Total revenue minus current expenditures.
g   Total expenditures, minus total revenue.
*Total may not add up due to rounding.
S/ Does not include 427 billion transferred to autonomous entities.
g/ Does not include )k2.4 billion for fertilizers.
Z/ Excludes projects financed by the National Investment Fund (197h, )90 billion;
1975,   h10 billion).
/ Includes )25 million in Bonds issued to the Bank of Korea.



Table 10: DOMESTIC PRICES
A. Consumer Price Index V (1970=100)
1971       1972       1973       1974
June                     111.2      127.5       129.3      159.7
December                 116.5       127.2      138.0
Average                   113.5      126.8      130.8
B. Wholesale Price Index (1970=100)
June                     107.7       124.7      129.7      190.7
December                 116.3       116.3      145.2
Average                   108.6      123.8      132.4
1/ All cities
Source: Bank of Korea



Table 11: EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Disbursements in millions of U.S. dollars)
1970      1971      1972     1973
Multilateral Institutions           13        59       71        96
ADB                              5        13       10         42
IBRD                             7       31        57        48
IDA                              1        15        4         6
Governments                         147       298       330      343
Japan                           13       123       62        89
USA                            126       170       244       245
Other                            8        5        24          9
Source: IBBD; and external public debt reports by the Bank of Korea.






EBRD 10375
_  Pr r,; U S.S R              ~~~~~~~12 7 '            12 7'    'tt129.                               Apih l '2
u SS R.                              2
,!          _          N O RT H          KOPR E A 
C H I N A 
J /;ibar                                                    >rSogcho; st< 
N KORE A                                                Irrrr, f
-, REP CF
KOREA                                         )
Seru             JAA                   bl am ~2 I                               --APAN-
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)                          S'    I       oC  ri 2vSamh
Or                         I Or>\                                                                    '.
5e.  38'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                            5
Fa ~ ~     ~      ~     ~       < 5 t  -IC                            i  >>5 
15-                                             _J( >Orl3 J E t !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  Choungnr.~     iorsseunypo
Chw~~sgo Sear\ 
Sugdoro-S(  uSruqeunr
t                                    ~~~KOREA
r > nressv:sYs ,rk h
Wbords                                         Er pr&ss-/irs dr.er constr,rlIin
Prirmcry rocds
-.     '-..                                               ---------Rrrilwour7
-~                                              -.--.--- - Roudwuys uruer cuosrruc;.Or 1
* 30 ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      
3 4 . . P o rtI s
---- Sync sI cli es
PrcorrrCciul bogundsr Os
Jeju 4'                                            _ - lorrucirnotal bojundiries
)!EL                                   .    2D   4D    oD   3D    iC)   120   140  IoC
g   )  J                                        rl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLOO:FTEb,
t           Seog s                          D                     Mdlo
125'                      IOu                        '?                        12B                        Or



