                                                  CONFORMED COPY


                                            CREDIT NUMBER 4816-PK




     Financing Agreement


(Third Additional Financing for Highways Rehabilitation Project)


                           between



            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN


                              and


    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                      Dated July 27, 2011
                                                           CREDIT NUMBER 4816-PK

                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT dated July 27, 2011, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (“Association?).

        (A)     WHEREAS the International Development Association (the Association)
had agreed to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, dated January 26, 2004, between the Recipient
and the Association, a credit in an amount equivalent to one hundred five million nine
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 105,900,000) (“Development Credit
Agreement?), and on the terms set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, dated
January 26, 2004, between the Recipient and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (“Bank?), a loan in an amount equal to five billion six hundred five
million five hundred thousand Japanese Yen (¥5,605,500,000), both to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Credit No.
3846-PAK and Loan No. 7212-PAK, respectively);

        (B)     WHEREAS the Bank had agreed to extend to the Recipient, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Agreement Amending the Loan Agreement
and the Development Credit Agreement, dated December 6, 2005, between the Recipient
and the Bank and the Association, a loan in an amount equal to one hundred million
Dollars ($100,000,000), in additional financing for such project (Loan No. 7341-PAK);

        (C)    WHEREAS the Bank had agreed to extend to the Recipient, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, dated May 16, 2006,
between the Recipient and the Bank, a loan in an amount equal to sixty five million
Dollars ($65,000,000), in additional financing for such project (Loan No. 7376-PAK)
(“Second Additional Financing?);

        (D)     WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the Association to provide
additional financing to finance completion of the original project activities on account of
an unanticipated financing gap; and

        (E)     WHEREAS the Association has agreed to extend to the Recipient such
additional financing on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement;

        NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows:
                                           2


            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
        eighty five million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
        (SDR 85,700,000) (variously, “Credit? and “Financing?) to assist in financing the
        project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-
        withdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
        repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is the Dollar.

                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the
        Program. To this end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by
        the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
        of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
                                            3


3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

               ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

4.02.   For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
        obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
        payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary of the Economic Affairs Division
        of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics, or any of the Additional
        Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or Section Officer in said Division,
        acting individually.

5.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

                The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
                Economic Affairs Division
                Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics
                Islamabad
                Pakistan

                Facsimile:

                92-51-921-8976

5.03.   The Association’s Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America
                                   4


       Cable:                  Telex:                  Facsimile:

       INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI)            1-202-477-6391
       Washington, D.C.


AGREED at Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written.




                ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN


                By/s/ Abdul Wajid Rana

                                                     Authorized Representative


                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                By/s/ Rachid Benmessaoud

                                                     Authorized Representative
                                           5


                                    SCHEDULE 1

                                 Project Description

        The objective of the Project is to assist with the sustainable delivery of a
productive and efficient national highway network, thereby contributing to lower
transportation costs.

       The Project constitutes part of the Program, and consists of the following parts:

1.     Conservation of National Highways M-9 and N-5 Network

       (a)     Rehabilitation and safety and capacity improvement of approximately
               541 kilometers of highways and related structures, including flood-
               damaged highways and structures, and including associated relocation of
               utility lines, and compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Project
               Affected Persons.

       (b)     Resurfacing and pavement strengthening of an additional 336 kilometers
               of highways.

       (c)     Safety improvement at approximately twenty (20) locations.

       (d)     Afforestation.

       (e)     Design, contract management, and construction supervision.

2.     Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Earthquake- and Flood-Damaged Highways

       (a)     Reconstruction and rehabilitation of approximately 180 kilometers of
               earthquake- and flood-damaged highways, including National Highways
               N-15 and N-35 and Jhelum Valley Road, in Azad Jammu and Kashmir
               and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, including associated relocation of utility
               lines, and compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Project
               Affected Persons.

       (b)     Design, contract management, and construction supervision.

3.      Policy Support, and Institutional Development of Project Implementing Entity

       (a)     Implementation of improved sub-sectoral policies for better targeting of
               public sector resource allocation for the national highway network,
               including implementation of Medium-Term Budgetary Framework.
                                  6


(b)   Provision of stable and secure funding for road maintenance, including
      operation of the Road Maintenance Account.

(c)   Institutional reform and corporate strengthening, including in relation to:
      (i) business process re-engineering, financial management and
      management information systems; (ii) road asset management, pavement
      systems and standards, and axle load management; (iii) road safety
      practices; (iv) environmental management and resettlement practices;
      and (v) training and human resource development.

(d)   Carrying out of sector studies and future investment project preparation.
                                             7


                                     SCHEDULE 2

                                   Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      On-granting

1.      To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds
        of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity as a capital
        contribution on a non-reimbursable basis in accordance with the Recipient’s
        standard budgetary procedures.

2.      In the event of a conflict between the budgetary procedures of the Recipient and
        the provisions of this Agreement, including such additional instructions as the
        Association shall have specified by notice to the Recipient pursuant to
        Section IV.A of this Schedule, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.

B.      Anti-Corruption

        The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

C.      Plan

1.      The Recipient shall: (i) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
        the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan; and (ii) except as the
        Association shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign, amend, abrogate, or
        waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the
        aforementioned, or any provision thereof.

2.      In the event of a conflict between the provisions of such Plan and those of this
        Agreement, the latter shall govern.

Section II.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish
        to the Recipient and the Association, not later than forty-five (45) days after the
        end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
        covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
                                           8


3.      The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
        Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the
        General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
        period of one (1) fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity. The audited
        Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association
        not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

4.      The Recipient shall, no later than the beginning of its 2012 fiscal year, take a
        decision regarding: (a) treatment of its existing stock of debt to the Project
        Implementing Entity; and (b) the mode of future funding to the Project
        Implementing Entity, all with a view to making the Project Implementing Entity
        financially sustainable commencing such fiscal year.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
        Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
        Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
        particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
        Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

1.      International Competitive Bidding.          Except as otherwise provided in
        paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded
        on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
        specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
        Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
        specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
                                            9




Procurement Method

(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures set out in
the Annex to this Schedule

(b) Shopping


C.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.      Quality- and Cost-Based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in
        paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
        awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-Based Selection.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
        specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-Based Selection,
        which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
        the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

Procurement Method

(a) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications
(b) Selection of Individual Consultants

D.      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

        Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient,
        the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:
        (a) each contract for goods procured on the basis of International Competitive
        Bidding; (b) the first contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
        $25,000 or more but less than $200,000 procured on the basis of National
        Competitive Bidding; (c) each contract for works procured on the basis of
        International Competitive Bidding; (d) each contract for works estimated to cost
        the equivalent of $500,000 or more but less than $5,000,000 equivalent procured
        on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; (e) the first contract for works
        estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less procured on the basis of
        National Competitive Bidding; (f) each contract for consultants’ services
        provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (g) the
        first contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the
        equivalent of $100,000 or less; (h) each contract for consultants’ services
        provided by individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
        more; and (i) the first contract for consultants’ services provided by individual
                                            10


       consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less.         All other
       contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.

Section IV.    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.     General

       The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
       the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
       additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
       (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated
       May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made
       applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance 100%
       (inclusive of Taxes) of Eligible Expenditures, consisting of goods, works,
       consultants’ services (including for audits), Training, and Operating Costs.

B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.     Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
       made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2.     The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.
                                            11


                              ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2


                National Competitive Bidding: Additional Procedures


        The additional procedures set out below shall apply to the procurement of goods
and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, in
order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the
provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said
Guidelines. In the event of a conflict between the Recipient’s procedures and the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines, said paragraphs shall
govern, including the following:

        1.      Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) national
                newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline
                for the submission of bids;

        2.      Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who
                are willing to pay the required fee;

        3.      Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of
                any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process;

        4.      Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;

        5.      Qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;

        6.      Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for
                submission of bids;

        7.      Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an
                official estimate without the prior written agreement of the Bank;

        8.      Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank’s prior written
                agreement shall be obtained;

        9.      Bids shall be solicited and works contracts shall be awarded on the basis
                of unit prices;

        10.     Contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated
                rates;

        11.     Single bids shall also be considered for award;

        12.     Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder;
                                  12


13.   Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated
      or any other bidders;

14.   Draft contracts shall be reviewed by the Bank in accordance with prior
      review procedures;

15.   State-owned enterprises shall be eligible to bid only if they can establish
      that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
      commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower;

16.   A firm declared ineligible by the Bank, based on a determination by the
      Bank that the firm has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive,
      coercive, or obstructive practices in competing for or in executing a
      Bank-financed contract, shall be ineligible to be awarded a Bank-
      financed contract during the period of time determined by the Bank.

17.   The Bank shall declare a firm ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated
      period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time
      determines that the firm has, directly or through an agent, engaged in
      corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive, or obstructive practices in
      competing for, or in executing, a contract financed by the Bank; and

18.   Each contract financed from the proceeds of a Loan shall provide that the
      suppliers, contractors, and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its
      request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance
      of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors
      appointed by the Bank. The deliberate and material violation by the
      supplier, contractor, or subcontractor of such provision may amount to an
      obstructive practice.
                                          13


                                       SCHEDULE 3

                                    Repayment Schedule

               Date Payment Due                      Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                               repayable
                                                      (expressed as a percentage)*
On each March 15 and September 15:

commencing March 15, 2021 to and including                         1.25
September 15, 2030

commencing March 15, 2031 to and including                          2.5
September 15, 2045



* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.
                                            14


                                       APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

1.      “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
        Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and
        IDA Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set
        forth in Section II of this Appendix.

2.      “Azad Jammu and Kashmir? means the area of Azad Jammu and Kashmir.

3.      “Consultant Guidelines? means: (a) except as provided in subparagraph (b)
        below, the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
        Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
        October 2006 and May 2010; and (b) in the case of contracts financed or to be
        financed, in whole or in part, out of the proceeds of the Second Additional
        Financing, and for which the invitation to bid was issued prior to the date of this
        Agreement, “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
        Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004.

4.      “Economic Affairs Division? means the division of the Ministry of Economic
        Affairs and Statistics (as hereinafter defined), responsible for economic affairs, or
        any successor thereto.

5.      “Environmental Assessment Framework? means the Recipient’s framework,
        dated November 2005, agreed with the Association and setting out mitigation,
        enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building
        through training, that have been identified by the Recipient to eliminate any
        adverse environmental impacts of Part 2 of the Project, offset them, or reduce
        them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be
        modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Association,
        and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such framework.

6.      “Environmental Management Plans? means, collectively, the Recipient’s plans,
        dated May 2003 with respect to the first phase of Part 1 of the Project and
        October 2004 with respect to the second phase of Part 1 of the Project, and as
        may be prepared with respect to Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the
        provisions of the Environmental Assessment Framework, agreed with the
        Association and setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
        institutional measures, including capacity building through training, that have
        been identified by the Recipient to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts
        of the Project, respectively, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or
        enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to time with
        the prior written agreement of the Association, and such term includes any
                                             15


      schedules or annexes to such plans; and “Environmental Management Plan?
      means, individually, any of such plans.

7.    “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
      General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010.

8.    “Involuntary Resettlement? means: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in
      (i) relocation, or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets, or access to assets; or (iii) loss
      of income sources, or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person
      must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
      legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
      livelihood of the affected person.

9.    “Jhelum Valley Road? means the Muzaffarabad-Htian-Chakothi segments of the
      Recipient’s provincial road network, all as may be defined in Part I of the
      Schedule to the Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation (as hereinafter
      defined) in due course.

10.   “Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa? means a political subdivision of the Recipient, or any
      successor thereto.

11.   “Land Acquisition Act? means the Recipient’s Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Act
      No. 1 of 1894), as amended from time to time.

12.   “Medium-Term Budgetary Framework? means the Project Implementing Entity
      (as hereinafter defined)’s indicative five (5)-year (FY 2003-08) budgetary
      framework, dated October 2003 and agreed with the Association, for the
      Recipient’s national highway network, and including a prioritized investment and
      maintenance program and setting out prioritization criteria for future updates of
      such program, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior
      written agreement of the Association, and such term includes any schedules or
      annexes to such framework.

13.   “Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics? means the Recipient’s ministry
      responsible for economic affairs and statistics, or any successor thereto.

14.   “National Highway Authority? means the Recipient’s entity, established and
      operating pursuant to the Recipient’s National Highway Authority Act, 1991
      (Act No. XI of 1991), and responsible for the Recipient’s national highway
      network.

15.   “National Highway M-9? means the Karachi-Hyderabad highway, as defined in
      Part I of the Schedule to the Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation (as
      hereinafter defined).
                                          16


16.   “National Highway N-15? means the Mansehra-Balakot-Kaghan-Naran segments
      of the Recipient’s national highway network, all as defined in Part I of the
      Schedule to the Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation (as hereinafter
      defined).

17.   “National Highway N-35? means the Hassanabadal-Abbottabad-Batgram-Sazin-
      Gilgit-Sust-Khunjrab Pass segments of the Recipient’s national highway
      network, all as defined in Part I of the Schedule to the Project Implementing
      Entity’s Legislation (as hereinafter defined).

18.   “National Highway N-5? means the Karachi-Thata-Hyderabad-Moro-Multan-
      Sahiwal-Lahore-Jhelum-Rawalpindi-Peshawar-Torkham segments of the
      Recipient’s national highway network, all as defined in Part I of the Schedule to
      the Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation (as hereinafter defined).

19.   “Operating Costs? means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures under
      the Project, incurred by the Recipient or the Project Implementing Entity for
      purposes of Project implementation, management, and monitoring and
      evaluation, on account of utilities and supplies, bank charges, communications,
      vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and
      equipment maintenance, public awareness-related publicity and media expenses,
      travel and subsistence, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but
      excluding salaries, bonuses, fees, and honoraria of members of the Recipient’s
      civil service.

20.   “Procurement Guidelines? means: (a) except as provided in subparagraph (b)
      below, the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits?
      published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010;
      and (b) in the case of contracts financed or to be financed, in whole or in part, out
      of the proceeds of the Second Additional Financing, and for which the invitation
      to bid was issued prior to the date of this Agreement, “Guidelines: Procurement
      under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits? published by the Bank in May 2004.

21.   “Procurement Plan? means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project,
      dated December 23, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
      Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
      updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

22.   “Program? means the Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
      designed to improve the Recipient’s national highway system, based on annual
      maintenance plans developed in accordance with the standard operating
      procedures relating to the Road Maintenance Account (as hereinafter defined)
      and allocations agreed in the Medium-Term Budgetary Framework and set forth
      or referred to in the Recipient’s program concept document of March 26, 2001.
                                          17


23.   “Project Affected Person? means a person who, on account of Project
      implementation, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social
      impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation,
      or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets, or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
      sources, or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to
      another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
      parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
      person; and “Project Affected Persons? means, collectively, all such persons.

24.   “Project Implementation Plan? means the Recipient’s plan, dated October 2003,
      agreed with the Association and setting out implementation, organizational,
      administrative, monitoring and evaluation, environmental and social monitoring
      and mitigation, financial management, disbursement, and procurement
      arrangements for purposes of Project implementation, as the same may be
      amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Association,
      and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan.

25.   “Project Implementing Entity? means National Highway Authority.

26.   “Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation? means National Highway Authority
      Act, 1991 (Act No. XI of 1991), as amended in 2001, and such term includes any
      other laws and regulations governing the organization, reorganization,
      restructuring, and operations of the Project Implementing Entity, as the same
      may be amended from time to time.

27.   “Resettlement Action Plans? means, collectively, the Recipient’s plans, dated
      May 2003 with respect to the first phase of Part 1 of the Project and
      October 2007 with respect to the second phase of Part 1 of the Project, and as
      may be prepared with respect to Part 2 of the Project, agreed with the Association
      and setting out the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional
      measures, including capacity building through training, that have been identified
      by the Recipient to carry out acquisition of land and related assets under the
      Project and compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Project Affected
      Persons, in accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy
      Framework (as hereinafter defined), as the same may be modified from time to
      time with the prior written agreement of the Association, and such term includes
      any annexes or schedules to such plans; and “Resettlement Action Plan? means,
      individually, any of such plans.

28.   “Resettlement Policy Framework? means the Recipient’s framework,
      dated May 2003, agreed with the Association and setting out the mitigation,
      enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building
      through training, that have been identified by the Recipient to carry out
      acquisition of land and related assets under the Project, compensation,
      resettlement, and rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons, and preparation of
                                            18


        Resettlement Action Plans, as the same may be modified from time to time with
        the prior written agreement of the Association, and such term includes any
        annexes or schedules to such framework.

29.     “Road Asset Management Directorate? means the Project Implementing Entity’s
        directorate, responsible for road asset management, or any successor thereto.

30.     “Road Maintenance Account? means the Project Implementing Entity’s account,
        established and operated pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity’s
        Legislation, serving to finance road maintenance.

31.     “Road Maintenance Account Rules? means the National Highway Authority
        Road Maintenance Account Rules, 2003, prescribed by the Project Implementing
        Entity under the Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation for the operation of
        the Road Maintenance Account and published on September 22, 2003.

32.     “Subproject? means one (1) or more contract packages under Part 1 (a) and / or
        2 (a) of the Project, grouped together for procurement purposes.

33.     “Training? means the cost of training financed under the Project, and attributable
        to seminars, workshops, and study tours, along with the cost of travel and
        subsistence for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training
        facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities
        directly related to course preparation and implementation.

Section II.     Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:

1.      Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5 (a) and a new Section 5 (b) is added to
        read as follows:

        “… (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be
        imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all
        other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that
        the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as
        a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual
        or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in
        connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?

2.      Section 11 (a) is modified to read as follows:

        “… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and
        procedures (fn 13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an
        individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower,
                                            19


       individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of
       time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
       financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and
       (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or
       any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the
       Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
       corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive, or obstructive practices in connection
       with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
       entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
       declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
       by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
       of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
       determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
       engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in connection with
       the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?

Footnotes:

       “13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a
       Bank-financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings
       pursuant to the Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the
       procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in
       connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction
       by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross-
       debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that
       the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or
       collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a
       financing made by such financier.?

       “14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national
       government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and
       government-owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid
       under paragraph 1.8 (b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate
       under paragraph 1.11 (c) of the Consultant Guidelines.?

       “15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures,
       for the purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the
       Sanctions Board set forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In
       addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining the process
       to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, and
       explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website
       and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.?
20
