                                       Documentof
                                   TheWorldBank


                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                   ReportNo. 39371-YF




                                    PROJECTPAPER

                                           ONA

                 PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGLOAN

INTHE AMOUNT OFEURO13.3 MILLION(US$18 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


            AND A PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT

 INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR6.6 MILLION(US$ 10MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                           TO THE REPUBLICOF SERBIA

                                          FORAN

                         ENERGYEFFICIENCY PROJECT



                                       May25,2007



Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipients only inthe
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                   (ExchangeRateEffective:April 30,2007)
                              CurrencyUnit    = Euro
                                    Euro 1 = US$1.36135
                              CurrencyUnit    = SDR
                                    1SDR      = US$ 1.52493


                                    FISCALYEAR
                                 January 1    - December31



cc                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
          Clinical Center
ccs       Clinical Center o f Serbia
EAR       EuropeanAgency for Reconstruction
ERR       Economic Rate ofRetum
EU        EuropeanUnion
FSL       Fixed Spread Loan
IDA       InternationalDevelopment Association
IBRD      InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
MOE       MinistryofEducation
M O H     MinistryofHealth
MOLSP     MinistryofLabor and Social Policy
M O M E   MinistryofMiningandEngineering
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PIU       Project ImplementationUnit
PSC       Project Steering Committee
SA1       State Audit Institution
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SEEA      Serbian Energy Efficiency Agency



                                 Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                               CountryDirector:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                                 Sector Director    Peter D.Thomson
                                Sector Manager:     Charles Feinstein
                             Task TeamLeader:       Varadarajan Atur

                                                                                    FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                         REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

                          AdditionalFinancingfor the EnergyEfficiencyProject


                                                     CONTENTS


           A.   INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT ........................................................................                     7

           B. BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING.........8

           C.   PROPOSEDCHANGES........................................................................................             9

           D.   CONSISTENCYWITH CAS...............................................................................                 12

           E. ECONOMICANALYSIS ...................................................................................                 12

           F. APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UPPROJECT..........................................................                              13

           G. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES...................................................................................                  16

           H.   RISKS AND BENEFITS......................................................................................           16

           I FINANCIALTERMSANDCONDITIONSFORTHEADDITIONAL
            .
                FINANCING......................................................................................................... 17




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                        DATA SHEET


Date               0512512007                    TeamLeader             Varadarajan Atur
Country            Republic o f Serbia           Sustainable            Peter Thomson /
                                                 DevelopmentSector      Charles M.Feinstein
                                                 Director/Manager
Project Name       Additional Financingfor        CountryDirector       Orsalia
                   Energy Efficiency Project                            Kalantzopoulos
ProjectID          PO90492                       Environmental          B
                                                  Category
Borrower           Republic o f Serbia
Responsible        Government o f Serbia, mainly through the MoME. Participating ministries
Agency             and agencies include MOH, MOE, MOLSP, NiSClinical Center and SEEA

FY                 os                             09                    10
Annual             9.4                            12.6                  6.0
Cumulative         9.4                           22.0                   28.0
Current ClosingDate                              April 30, 2010
RevisedClosingDate                               April 30, 2010
Does the scaled up project require any exceptions from Bank policies?   N o
Have these been approved by Bank Management                             N/A
I s approval from any policy exception sought from the Board            N o




buildingsretrofittedwouldbeincreased.
Does the scaled up project trigger any new safeguard policies?        I No
                                   For AdditionalFinancing


TotalBankFinancing(US $ million)                 28.0
Proposedterms:                                   Standard IDA Terms, IBRD(FSL in Euro)


                                                5

Source      Local        Foreign   Total (US$ million)
Borrower    2.00          0.00             2.00
IBRD/IDA    18.00        10.00             28.00
Others      0.00          0.00             0.00
Total       20.00        10.00             30.00




                     6

A.      INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide
additional financing in an amount of US$28 million equivalent to the Republic o f Serbia
(Serbia) for the Energy Efficiency Project (Cr. 3870). The additional financing (US$18
million equivalent loan and US$10 million equivalent credit) would support the costs o f
completion o f the current project (about US$8.0 million) and the costs associated with
scaling up ongoing work under the current project (about US$20 million), thus
completing the original scope o f the current project and increasing its impact and
development effectiveness. The financing is made available on IBRD terms (FSL in
Euro) for the loan and on standard IDA terms for the credit portion.

2.      The principal aim o f the proposed additional financing is to enable the
government to complete the original scope o f the project (energy efficiency
improvements in 3 social care buildings, 8 schools and 6 hospitals left out due to a cost
overrun) and to scale up energy efficiency improvements to include: (a) rehabilitation of
the heat supply system o f the NiS Clinical Center along with energy efficiency
improvements in all 17 contiguous buildings on the campus; complete retrofitted lighting
in 10 schools and partial lighting retrofit in 10 schools; and (b) energy efficiency
improvements in an additional 7 social care buildings (such as orphanages), 20 schools
and 11hospitals across Serbia. Energy efficiency improvements in four buildings at the
University o fKragujevac will also be included.

3.      The cost overrun under the ongoing project was encountered inboth the Belgrade
Clinical Center energy system upgradingand the buildingretrofitting components, which
are attributed to higher supply and works costs and adverse US$ to Euro exchange rates.
The cost for the Belgrade Clinical Center component was almost double the appraisal
estimates (from US$7.47 million to US$15.35 million equivalent), with Bank financing
allocation increased from US$6.35 million to US$14.05 million. The cost overrun under
the building retrofitting component was about 40%, and hence the cost estimates were
revised from US$12.36 million to US$17.30. The resulting shortfall in the Bank
financing i s about US$S.O million under the current project after taking into account the
allocation for contingencies.

4.      There will be no cofinancing from other donors for this particular project.
However, the project builds on assistance provided by the EU through its European
Agency for Reconstruction (EAR) in Serbia, mainly towards institutional development
aspects o f SEEA and early demonstration projects. Subject to Serbia's ratification o f
Kyoto Protocol, emission reductions achieved through energy efficiency measures will be
eligible for trade under the Clean Development Mechanism and will provide an
additional income stream to be used to finance activities funded within and beyond the
scope o fthis Energy Efficiency Project.




                                            7

B.      BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

5.      Background:The original credit for the Serbia Energy Efficiency Project inthe
amount o f SDR 14.1million (US$21.0 million equivalent) was approved by the Board of
Executive Directors on March 16, 2004, and became effective on June 29, 2004. The
project was designed to improve energy efficiency in heating buildings in order to make
heating more affordable, as well as improve the functional and health environment o f the
users. An additional associated objective was to reduce the local and global
environmental impact from the use o f dirty fuels for heating buildings in Serbia. These
objectives were to be achieved by financing (a) the replacement o f inefficient lignite and
heavy oil-fired boilers, which would otherwise continue to be used, with a new gas-fired
co-generation plant at the Clinical Center o f Serbia (CCS) inBelgrade. To this end a gas
pipeline to the CCS was extended by the gas supplier NIS-Energogas, from the nearest
medium pressure gas pipeline about 4 kilometers away; (b) energy efficiency
improvements in selected public buildings such as schools and hospitals throughout
Serbia, including a maternity hospital in CCS; and (c) technical assistance for capacity
building, developing methodologies for energy audits and investment proposals, public
outreach, communications and monitoring and evaluation, and training o f municipal and
government officials in evaluating capital expenditure decisions on energy efficient
investments.     About US$16.4 million out o f US$21 million (78% o f the credit) have
been committed in signed contracts, against which about US$7.1 million had been
disbursed (about 33% o f the Credit) as o f M a y 8, 2007, and bidding i s underway for
remaining lots.

6.      Despite some initial delays, the first batch o f investments has proceeded on track,
with (a) energy efficiency improvements completed in 6 schools and 4 hospitals; and (b)
design and preliminary works completed in the Belgrade Clinical Center, including
replacement o f 15 o f the 55 substations inheating networks and shuttingdown o f 3 o f the
6 coal-fired boilers. The delays were mainly due to coordination problems initially
experienced by the inter-ministerial Project Steering Committee (PSC) and the
finalization o f the tender package for the first lot, both o f which have been overcome at
this time. The second batch includes 10 schools and 7 hospitals, plus a maternity hospital
andlightingin2 schools. Seven schools havebeenalmost completed andcommissioning
is expected imminently, and works are almost completed on 4 hospitals. Lighting
improvements at two schools were completed in February 2007. Bidding for the 3
remaining schools andthe 3 hospitals is underway. Due to the cost overrun, only the first
two years' program o f energy efficiency improvements in schools and hospitals could be
completed with the original credit funds.      Energy efficiency improvements have been
monitoredbefore and after the improvements undertaken inthe 6 schools and 4 hospitals
under the first year program. About a 48% reduction in annual energy consumption was
recorded inthe first 3 schools, and about a 44% reduction in annual energy consumption
inone hospital. Improvements of similar range and order inall the schools andhospitals
selected in the scope are anticipated, leading to reduced energy consumption and better
environmental & comfort conditions for the population (students, teachers, patients,
medical personnel, etc.). Some municipalities have replicated the energy efficiency



                                              8

improvements in other schools, using their own funds, after experiencing the significant
energy s.avings.

7.      Implementation progress (IP) and Development Objective (DO) ratings for the
project have been satisfactory for over two years. The audit report has been found
satisfactory and the project has not had any environmental, social or other safeguard
problems. A thorough financial management review was conducted in December 2006
during which the Bank found some irregularities resulting in payment o f ineligible
expenditures from the Special Account. The Ministry o f Mining and Energy refbnded
this amount prior to the start o f negotiations. The review analyzedproject transactions in
depth and identified certain deficiencies in the area o f financial management, mainly
related to the system o f internal controls.      The corrective actions in the Financial
Management Action Plan were implemented by the PIU prior to negotiations, and the
financial management arrangements o fthe project are now considered satisfactory.

8.      Rationale: The team has considered several possible approaches for financing
the project, including as a new operation or a repeater project. Processing this as a new
operation i s not proposed in the interest o f maximizing cost effectiveness and timeliness
inprocessing, so that the additional financing can complement the on-going activities. A
credit/loan provided under an "Additional Financing" arrangement in accordance with
OP 13.20 would leverage use o f the Borrower's existing implementation capacity and
utilize existing implementation arrangements for the existing project.          The proposed
additional financing will help Serbia go beyond the technology demonstration pilots and
help overcome several barriers to the development o f the energy efficiency market - in
particular the lack of information, lack o f coordinated policies, lack o f practical examples
o f bringingtogether different government agencies that need to come together to realize
the untapped potential o f energy efficiency in Serbia. Also, the additional financing will
implement energy efficiency (demand side) and energy supply improvements in an
integratedmanner, maximizing energy savings and cost effectiveness o f the project. The
additional financing will help set the stage for improving end-use efficiency in the
residential sector by providing the necessary practical experience to public officials,
which i s needed in order to take the necessary policy and tariff decisions, develop
methodologies for energy audits and contractual arrangements for energy efficiency
investments, and trigger development o f a market for energy efficiency services. The
Bank would also help mobilize other donor assistance to promote energy efficiency
measures. Once Serbia has ratified the Kyoto Protocol, there is considerable potential for
carbon finance investments; the project will take steps to prepare for capturing and
monitoring greenhouse gas emissionreductions.


C.      PROPOSED CHANGES

9.      The objective o f the proposed program will remain in line with the original
development objective o f the Energy Efficiency Project. Continued energy efficiency
improvements inschools andhospitals and social buildings are very much inline with the
government's priorities. The proposed project scope will comprise the following main
components:


                                               9

(i) ComponentA: Energy SystemModernization(US$5.94 million):
     Energy system modernization o f the NiS Clinical Center. The existing two
      coal-fired andtwo oil-fired boilers will be replaced by one gas-fired boiler
      andenergy efficiency improvements in 17buildings inNiSClinical Center
      campus will be undertaken. The energy system will be designed taking
      into consideration energy efficiency measures in all the buildings o f the
      clinical center, which will reduce the energy supply requirements for the
      same energy demand and will demonstrate the enhanced benefits from
      coordinated implementation o f efficient energy supply and demand
      components.

(ii) ComponentB: EnergyEfficiencyImprovementsin Social Service
      buildings(schools, hospitalsand orphanages)across Serbia (US$20.42
      million). This component will finance the installation o f energy efficiency
      equipment and retrofitting in schools, hospitals, orphanages and other
      social care buildings. The investment program consists o f 26 primary
      schools and 4 buildings o f University o f Kragujevac, 33 hospitals (out o f
     which 17 in NiS CC) and 10 orphanages as well as complete lighting
     retrofits in 10 schools and partial lightingretrofits in 10 schools. Eligible
      energy efficiency measures are: roof insulation, including roofing; wall
      insulation; window replacement; basement ceiling insulation; piping
      insulation; balancing valves; thermostatic valves; automatic temperature
      control at the boiler or substation level; replacement o f boiler and/or
     burner; lighting. The lighting in the surveyed schools was found to be
     inadequate and poorly designed, often a source o f eye strain for the
     children. Based on experience gained during implementation o f the
     original project, working conditions (quality o f air, temperature and
      lighting) and social and demographic impact would be additional
     considerations inselection o f sites andbuildings for retrofitting.

(iii) TechnicalAssistance(US$1.13 million): TheTAundertheproposed
      additional financing would help (a) the SEEA to provide technical support
      such as energy audits         and monitoring and undertake external
     communications, including training o f officials; and (b) project financial
     management, auditing and incremental costs covering office space and
      facilities for the PIU, operating and maintenance costs o f equipment,
     vehicle, office supplies, utilities, communications costs, translation costs,
      and office equipment.




                                    10

                       EstimatedProjectCosts(US$ million)




       rovementsinsocial




                                ItherComplementaryChanges
   Description                  Remarks
1  Institutionalarrangements - The project would utilize the existing project
   Project Management           management arrangements; some additional staff would
                                be needed inthe PIU and SEEA inorder to implement
                                the additional financing scope by the closing date o f the
                                original project.
2  Project Costs                Costs comprise additional loan o f US$18 million
                                equivalent and additional credit ofUS$lO million
                                equivalent.
                                The financing plan will be adjusted to reflect the changes
                                infinancingsources discussedinthis paper.
                                Slight change to improve FMarrangements as reflected

i                               inFinancialManagementActionPlan, which was
                                implementedprior to negotiations.
   Disbursement arrangements    No change inthe main disbursement arrangements except
                                for a change inthe percentage o f expenditures to be
                                financed for all activities to 100percent.
   Procurement                  The procurement under the additional financing will be
7
6 /                             carried out inaccordance withthe Procurement and
                                Consultants' Guidelines, M a y 2004 and revised in
                                October 2006. The additional procurementwould require
                                hiringo f some additional staff inPIU.
                                No extension o fclosing date envisaged
   Implementation Schedule      The proposed programwill be implemented over a 33
                                               ~~
                                month period.
                                To be provided on a blendofIBRD/IDAterms
                                Borrower will provide the proceeds o f credit and loanto
                                participating ministries and will bear all responsibility for
                                debt service under the proposedcredit and loan; no
                                specific on-lending arrangements are anticipated.



                                        11

D.      CONSISTENCYWITH CAS

10.     The proposed project remains consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy FY05-07 for Serbia, which aims to (i)     create a smaller, more sustainable, more
efficient public sector; (ii) a larger, more dynamic private sector; and (iii)
                            create                                                    reduce
poverty levels and improve social protection and access to public services. By improving
the energy efficiency o f social service buildings (schools, hospitals, and orphanages), the
additional financing will reduce heating costs and heating emissions, and thus reduce the
drain on public resources. Discussions with the newly formed Government o f priorities
for a new Country Assistance Strategy for FY08-10 are expected to begin in June 2007.
It is likely that energy efficiency will continue to be a priority o f the Government,
particularly efforts to reduce pollution and improve energy efficiency to make heating
more affordable.     Many o f the schools and hospitals selected for energy efficiency
improvements are in remote areas where the incidence of poverty i s significantly higher
thaninurbanizedareas.

E.      ECONOMIC ANALYSIS

11.     An updated economic analysis was carried out on the modernization o f heating
system (Clinical Center o f Serbia) under Component A, reflecting the actual investments
and current (February 2007) operating costs, compared to the original analysis included
in the PAD.      Fuel prices have increased significantly since the original PAD was
finalized, actual investments inthe CHP are largely similar to appraisal estimates, but the
investment in the heating system increased significantly.        Accordingly the updated
economic rate o f return (ERR) o f Component A would be 29.6% compared with 32.4%
in original PAD. Further, after incorporating the costs of the natural gas pipeline
connection incurred by the Belgrade municipality and the supervision costs, the updated
ERRwould be 15.4% compared to 15.9% before changes to prices.

12.     The above analysis does not include the value o f avoiding environmental damages
due to the reduction o f pollutants from the plant. The environmental damage costs are
significant, especially in the case o f the Belgrade Clinical Center, a facility within a
densely populated (urban) area with a very short stack (chimney). A survey o f
environmental damage costs was carried out based on which damage costs were
developed for the Belgrade Clinical Center. The resulting ERR for Belgrade CCS
(including conservative environmental damage costs) would be 21.2%, or about 5%
higher than in the base case. The corresponding ERR for the proposed NiS CCS i s
estimated to be about 24%, which would be higher when environmental benefits are
incorporated.

13.     Economic analysis was also carried out for the stand alone building retrofitting
investments under Component Bywhich yields an ERR of about 10.5% excluding
environmental benefits. Apart from the contiguous buildings inBelgrade and Nis clinical
centers, most have a remote energy supply (e.g., district heating or electricity) and energy
efficiency options entail significant variation with regard to economics, very often
impacted by site-specific conditions and requirements. Finally, it should be emphasized



                                             12

that often, social considerations and clearly unacceptable conditions (e.g., very low
temperature and/or inadequate lighting in the school classroom) warrant building
retrofits.

F.      APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UPPROJECT

14.     Technical: The NiS Clinical Center, consisting o f 27 buildings, gets its heating
andhot water from an old coal-fired plant and two oil-fired boilers. The coal-fired boiler
is at the end o f its operating life and constitutes a safety and environmental hazard. The
very low stack (less than 20 meters height) results inrelease o f pollutants at the ground
level within a densely populated residential area. Inspections in the last few years have
determined this plant to be unreliable, unsafe and failing to meet the relevant emission
standards, and have determined that it should shut down. Also, most buildings o f the NiS
Clinical Center are in need o f rehabilitation and energy efficiency improvements, which
have the potential to reduce the energy supply needed. Coordination o f energy demand
(efficiency) measures with the design o f a new, efficient energy supply system would
also demonstrate increasedbenefits.

15.     While Phase Io f this project has retrofitted many hospitals and schools, the
number o f remaining buildings requiringenergy efficiency measures is vast and remains
a priority for the Government. The project scale up will implement energy efficiency
improvements at schools and hospitals across Serbia, consistent with the respective
Sector Master Plans developed in consultation with the Bank. Thus, the scale up scope
includes the Kragujevac University, Vranje Clinical Center, 32 schools, 35 hospitals and
10 social buildings as well as improved lighting in 20 schools. Based on technical and
economic criteria agreed with the Bank, the Government prioritized candidate sites for
energy efficiency improvements which include 124 schools, 40 hospitals and 15 social
buildings.   Subsequently, the Government has proposed to also consider social and
demographic aspects with a view to include public buildings from poor regions. The
SEEA will identify the specific sites for energy efficiency improvements under the
project inconsultation with the PIU, which will be reviewed by the Bank.

16.     Financial: Counterpart fund requirements for the Project are modest and cover
mostly subproject preparation costs. Based on submission of annual budget proposals
from the Ministries o f Mining and Energy, Education, Health, and Labor and Social
Policy, the Ministry o f Finance will make the necessary provision o f funds in the budget
for the counterpart funds as well as for withdrawal o f proceeds o f the Credit. Recurrent
costs o f operating and maintaining investments are borne by the municipalities and the
Health Insurance Fund, which will benefit from cost reductions due to efficiency
improvements.

17.     Social: There are no issues related to land acquisition, resettlement or social
safeguards inthe project. The building efficiency improvements undertaken have already
demonstrated positive social impacts (see also Section G) and the project is expected to
widen such impacts throughthe additional financing and scale up o fthe scope. Regarding
the ongoing energy system modernization at the Belgrade CCS, there are already visible



                                               13

and perceptible impacts due to the shut down o f three o f the six coal fired boilers and
reduced pollution, with benefits expected to be even greater after the completion o f the
new gas fired system by end-2007. The new systems are expected to require less staff
(25 instead o f the current 50 at Belgrade CCS, as one gas fired boiler will replace 19 coal
and fuel oil fired boilers) and the PSC is taking steps to minimize impacts on affected
staff through retraining o f qualified staff, early retirement andnatural attrition, etc.

18.      Institutional: The existing arrangements include a PIU with staff and facilities
financed under the ongoing credit for day-to-day management o f the project, and an inter-
ministerial project steering committee (PSC) led by the Ministry o f Mining and Energy,
for coordinating and overseeing overall implementation o f the project. All the
participating ministries - health, education, social policy - are represented on the PSC.
The SEEA provides support for energy audits, technical review, monitoring, etc. These
arrangements have been functioning well and will be continued for the additional
financing project also. The PIU will be strengthened through additional staffing in
technical and financial management areas to handlethe expanded scope o f the project.

19.      Environmental: The proposed program extension does not change the
environmental category o f the project (Category B), as all impacts are expected to be
positive. An Environmental Assessment report will be prepared for the NiS Clinical
Center Component as part o f the feasibility study, which i s expected to be completed by
December 2007. Completion and disclosure o f an Environmental Assessment (EA) and
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), including public consultations as per OPBP
4.01, i s set as a condition o f disbursement towards Component A ofthe Project. An EMP
for the energy efficiency retrofitting was prepared during the original project and will
continue to be used in the additional financing. Installation o f a modem energy supply
system at NiS Clinical Center, and energy efficiency measures in schools, hospitals and
social buildings are expected to have a positive impact on the environment.               The
installation o f the energy supply system at NiS would be a major improvement o f the
local environment, as it replaces an old and highly polluting system consisting o f a coal-
fired boiler and two small oil-fired boilers. None o f these boilers has environmental
control equipment, with emissions (particulates, SO2 and NOx) beingreleased at ground
level within densely populated residential areas; also there is no dust control and ash is
being disposed o f in an open area without any dust control measures. The new energy
supply system will eliminate the particulates, SO2 and ash, and reduce significantly NOx
and C02. Also, they will eliminate dust as there i s no need for transport o f coal, open
storage and handlingfacilities and disposal o f ash.

20.      The project, including the energy supply system at N i s and the energy efficiency
measures in all the buildings, will lead to a significant reduction o f greenhouse gas
emissions (C02), which could also generate Certified Emission Reductions (CER) for
trading after Serbia ratifies the Kyoto Protocol.

21.      Procurement:Procurement arrangements will be similar to the ongoing project,
but will be in accordance with the Bank's latest procurement guidelines. The relevant




                                               14

thresholds for prior review and for procurement methods will be as under the ongoing
project. The procurement plancontemplatedi s shown below.

                                  No. of bid Cate-      Cost    Proc.             Bid     Contr.  Contr.
 Descriptionof Component          packages   gory      Est. 11 method   Bid Inv. Opening Signing Compln.
 A- Investmentat CC NIS
 Gas boiler, steam
 generator, gas pipe                   1       G       1,125    ICB     May08    July08   Aug08  Sept.09
 Connection
 Pipe network and heat                 1      W        0,793    NCB     May08    July08   Aug 08  Aug.09
 Substation
 Indoor installation                   1      W        3,028    ICB     May08    July08   Aug08  Sept.09
 Design and supervision                1      CS       0,495   QCBS     Oct.07   Dec.07   Feb.08  Mar.10
 Total ComponentA                                    I 5,441  I
 B- Investmentin Public Buil ings
 Retrofit of schools,
 hospitals and social buildings
 Civilworks
 First year                           4       W        6,474    ICB     Jan.08   April 08 May08   Oct.08
 Second year                          4       W        6,979    ICB     Sep.08   Dec.09   Jan.09 Sept.09
 Heatingsystems
 First year                           2       W        1,262    NCB     Jan.08   April08  May08   Oct.08
 Second year                          2       W        1,389    NCB     Oct.08   Jan.09   Feb.09 Sept.09
 Lighting
 First year                            1      W        0,550    NCB     Feb.08   May08    June08  Oct.08
 Second year                           1      W        0,550    NCB     Nov.08   Feb.09   Mar.09 Sept.09
 Design and supervision               2       CS       1,720   QCBS     May07    July07   July08  Mar.10
 Total componentB                                    I 18,924 I
 C- Technicalassistance
 Incrementaloperational costs        nla     other 0,930
 Annual financial audit                   1 CS         0,040    LCS    annually
 SEEA Eqptfor measuring                   1    G       0,050 Shopping
 SEEA Social survev
        --                        Several CS           0,110   CQllndiv Sep.07   Oct.07   Nov.07  Dec.07
 Total componentC                                  -1
 I/:Excludingcontingenciesandsubprojectpreparationcosts

22.       Financial Management: Perceived corruption in the country is high. State Audit
Institution (SAI) has not been established yet, although the Law on S A I was passed in
November 2005. Internal audit still has relatively low capacity and needs to gain
experience. Sound financial management arrangements have now been instituted for the
project inorder to address the aforementionedrisks.

23.       During the financial management supervision in December 2006, the Bank
identified several control weaknesses and financial management issues. The system o f
internal controls for the project has recently been considerably strengthened by
implementation o f an agreed action plan which addressed weaknesses identified during
supervision. Following the implementation o f the agreed action plan, the current financial
management arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank to ensure use o f hnds for


                                                     15

intended purposes. There are no overdue audits under the ongoing project. Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) are submitted timely to the Bank and reliability o f the
reports i s satisfactory.

24.     Disbursement Arrangements: The existing disbursement arrangements will
continue for the additional financing project. Duringnegotiations, the Borrower indicated
that it preferred to disburse simultaneously from the Loan and Credit, inthe proportion o f
70% and 30% respectively. The Bank agreed to the split provided that the Borrower
ensures that the PIUwill handle the split and submit two applications, one for the IBRD
portion andone for the IDA portion. The allocation o f financing proceeds is as follows.


               Category                 Amount o f       Amount o f     Financing
                                        IBRDLoan         IDA Credit     Percentage
                                       (US$ million     (US$ million
                                            es.1            es.1
 (1) Goods, including supply and           10.21            5.50           100%
 installation
 (2) Works                                  5.00            2.85           100%
 \ I
 (3) Consultants' services                  1.63            0.88           100%
 including auditing services
 (4) Incremental operating costs            0.60            0.33           100%
 (5) Unallocated                            0.56            0.44
               TOTAL                       18.00            10.00


G.       EXPECTEDOUTCOMES:

26.      The project will enhance achievements and outcomes o f the Energy Efficiency
project, increasing the number o f clinical centers and the number of schools, hospitals
and orphanages to be retrofitted. The expected outcomes are: (i)  improvements inquality
o f heating, air and lighting insocial buildings and surroundings ofproject boundaries; (ii)
health improvements o f targeted population measured through surveys; (iii)energy
savings and corresponding reduction inexpenditures for energy inthe municipalities; and
(iv) lower expenditures for the health insurance fund through energy savings.       Social
surveys conducted by SEEA have confirmed the satisfaction and enhancement o f comfort
levels reported by the target population. Another beneficial outcome would be potential
carbon credits accruing fiom the project through reduced carbon intensity and avoided
carbon dioxide emissions, which could be traded when Serbia ratifies the Kyoto Protocol.


H.       RISKS AND BENEFITS:

27.     Risks: The main risk associated with the project is potential delays due to the
complexity o f the project (number o f components and 70 to 80 sites spread throughout
the country), the ability o f SEEA to provide adequate technical and administrative



                                              16

support, and inefficient review process. Phase Io f the project highlighted these as the
most critical issues. Below i s a summary o f the project risks with the mitigation
measures.

                  Risk                    Rating             RiskMitigation Measures
 Delays due to highvolume o f                      Separateenergy survey/audit from design and
 activities and 80 sites, and inability    High    supervision work. Hire multiplecontractors,
 o f the consultant to mobilize                    each focusing on one regionof Serbia
 adequate qualified staff

 Delays due to inefficient review                  Streamline performance o f the Steering
 process                                 Moderate Committee andstrengthen PIU capacity

 Inadequate capacity at PIU and                   Project will provide adequate resources for PIU
  SEEA to support the project            Moderate and SEEA to hiremore staff


28.      Benefits: The project will continue to monitor the measurable benefits using the
same indicators as for the original project. Expected benefits are measured through the
following: (a) improvement in air quality through reduction in emissions o f local air
pollutants (sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, andparticulates) and greenhouse gases (carbon
dioxide) producedby the boilers usedby the Clinical Center for meeting its heat demand;
and (b) energy savings o f the retrofitted public and social buildings, and cost o f heat per
square meter. The results achieved and monitored at the four completed and monitored
buildings retrofitted show (a) about 47% savings in energy consumption, from 3417
MWhto 1812 MWhor 1142 k W m 2 to 568 kWWm2; and (b) about 52% reduction in
C 0 2 emissions equivalent, fiom 915 tons to 477 tons. The project will also aim to
monitor through surveys the increased end-user satisfaction measured through
improvement in indoor air quality, indoor temperature, and perception surveys o f
improvement in comfort o f students, improvement in learning conditions and health with
lighting(level o fLux andeye diseases), patients andresidents, etc.


I. FINANCIALTERMSANDCONDITIONSFORTHEADDITIONAL
         FINANCING

29.      The original financing was provided on IDA credit terms. The additional
financing will be a blend o f IBRD Loan and IDA Credit, totaling US$28 million
equivalent (US$18 million equivalent, IBRD; and US$10 million equivalent, IDA).
Serbia has selected a FSL on standard terms (in Euro, with repayment over seventeen
years with a five year grace period). The IDA Credit will be with a twenty year maturity
and a ten year grace period.          The Borrower will provide the proceeds of the credit and
loan to participating ministries to undertake the specific energy efficiency improvements
under the project. Accordingly, as under the existing project, the Borrower will bear all
responsibility for debt service under the proposed credit and loan and no specific on-
lending arrangements are anticipated.




                                                17


