                                 Document of
                              The World Bank



                                                 Report No: ICR2829



        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IBRD-74660 IDA-38700 IDA-38701)



                                      ON A

                             LOAN and CREDIT

               IN THE AMOUNT OF TOTAL US$ 49 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

                                     FOR AN

                      ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT



                              October 30, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective September 2013)
                         Currency Unit = RSD

                           1.00 RSD = 0.11 US$
                          US$ 1.00 = 84.70 RSD

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF      Additional Financing
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CHP     Combined Heat and Power
CCS     Clinical Center of Serbia
CCN     Clinical Center of Nis
CO2     Carbon Dioxide
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
EA      Environmental Assessment
EAR     European Agency for Reconstruction
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EE      Energy Efficiency
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
ESCO    Energy Service Company
EU      European Union
FM      Financial Management
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GWh     Gigawatt hours
IDA     International Development Association
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ISR     Implementation Status Report
JICA    Japan International Cooperation Agency
KfW     Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LFO     Light Fuel Oil
M&E     Monitoring & Evaluation
MEDEP   Ministry of Energy, Development, and Environmental Protection
MOE     Ministry of Education
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOH     Ministry of Health
MOME    Ministry of Mining and Engineering
MTR     Mid-Term Review
MW      Megawatts
NEEAP   National Energy Efficiency Action Plan
NOx     Nitrogen Oxide
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PSC     Project Steering Committee
SAC     Structural Adjustment Credit
SEEA    Serbian Energy Efficiency Agency
SIDA    Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SO2     Sulfur Dioxide
tpa     Tons per annum
TSS     Transitional Support Strategy
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
      Vice President: Laura Tuck
   Country Director: Ellen Goldstein
     Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech
Project Team Leader: Arturo S. Rivera
   ICR Team Leader Claudia Ines Vasquez Suarez
         ICR Author: Sandra Schlossar
                                             SERBIA
                                      Energy Efficiency Project




                                                  CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ..................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................... 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................ 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................... 23
  6. Lessons Learned ............................................................................................. 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ................................................................ 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ....................................................................... 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ....................................................... 31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .. 35
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................. 37
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results......................................... 40
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........... 41
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ............. 46
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ............................................................ 47
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Energy Efficiency
Country:               Serbia                  Project Name:
                                                                       Project
                                                                       IBRD-74660,IDA-
Project ID:           P075343                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       38700,IDA-38701
ICR Date:              10/30/2013              ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                       SERBIA AND
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       MONTENEGRO
Original Total
                       USD 21.00M              Disbursed Amount:       USD 48.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 48.99M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Energy and Mining
 Serbian Energy Efficiency Agency (SEEA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                           Revised / Actual
     Process            Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/29/2003    Effectiveness:            06/29/2004      06/29/2004
                                                                              06/20/2007
Appraisal:            11/10/2003    Restructuring(s):                         01/29/2010
                                                                              10/20/2011
Approval:             03/16/2004    Mid-term Review:          06/15/2009      12/11/2008
                                    Closing:                  04/30/2010      04/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings           Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:    Satisfactory        Government:         Satisfactory
Quality of           Moderately          Implementing
                                                             Satisfactory
Supervision:         Satisfactory        Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank         Moderately          Overall Borrower
                                                             Satisfactory
Performance:         Satisfactory        Performance:




                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                         QAG Assessments
                           Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                               (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Project at any time      No                                              None
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                        No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    3
Energy efficiency in Heat and Power                                 97


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                       28
Climate change                                                      29
Pollution management and environmental health                       29
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    14
procurement

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:          Philippe H. Le Houerou              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:        Ellen A. Goldstein                  Nancy J. Cooke
Sector Manager:          Ranjit J. Lamech                    Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:     Arturo S. Rivera                    Mohinder P. Gulati
ICR Team Leader:         Claudia Ines Vasquez Suarez
ICR Primary Author:      Sandra Schlossar
                         Claudia Ines Vasquez Suarez


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project is to improve energy efficiency in heating
buildings in order to make heating more affordable as well as improve the functional
and health environment of the users. An important associated objective is to reduce
the local and global environmental impact of the use of dirty fuels for heating
buildings in Serbia.



                                             ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target Formally             Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
  Indicator             Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target       Completion or
                                                documents)          Values        Target Years
                  Reduction in emission of local air pollutants (sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide,
Indicator 1 :     and particulates) and greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide) produced by the
                  boilers used by the CCS & CCN for meeting their heating demand.
                                            sulfur dioxide
                                            emission in CCS
                  sulfur dioxide emission                                      0 tpa sulfur
                                            20 tpa, in CCN 0
                  in CCS 780 tpa, in CCN                                       dioxide emission
                                            tpa; nitrogen
                  220 tpa; nitrogen oxide                                      in CCS & CCN;
                                            oxide emission in
                  emission in CCS 100                                          nitrogen oxide
Value                                       CCS 40 tpa, in
                  tpa, in CCN 11 tpa; ash                                      emission in CCS
quantitative or                             CCN 8 tpa; ash
                  emission in CCS 130                                          50 tpa; ash
Qualitative)                                emission in CCS
                  tpa, in CCN 53 tpa;                                          emission in CCS &
                                            & CCN 0 tpa;
                  carbon dioxide emission                                      CCN 0 tpa; carbon
                                            carbon dioxide
                  in CCS 48,000 tpa, in                                        dioxide emission
                                            emission in CCS
                  CCN 9,000 tpa.                                               in CCS 25,000 tpa.
                                            20,000 tpa, in
                                            CCN 6,000 tpa.
Date achieved     05/30/2003                04/30/2013                         04/30/2013
                  In the CCS & CCN now there is no actual sulfur dioxide emission; no actual
Comments
                  ash, soot & other solid particles emission; significantly reduced nitrogen
(incl. %
                  oxide emission; and significantly reduced carbon dioxide emission (in total
achievement)
                  ca. 90% achievement).
                  Quantified energy savings of the retrofitted public buildings, and cost of heat
Indicator 2 :
                  per square meter.
                                                                               Average annual
                                            Average annual                     energy
                                            energy                             consumption in
                  Average annual energy
Value                                       consumption in                     schools 125
                  consumption in schools
quantitative or                             schools   207                      kWh/m2; in
                  373 kWh/m2; in                     2
Qualitative)                                kWh/m ; in                         hospitals 185
                  hospitals 395 kWh/m2.
                                            hospitals 231                      kWh/m2; in social
                                                     2
                                            kWh/m .                            buildings 175
                                                                               kWh/m2.
Date achieved     05/30/2003                04/30/2013                         04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Actual figures are averages from measured values (100% achievement).
achievement)
                Increased end-user satisfaction measured through perception surveys
Indicator 3 :
                including perspectives in improved functionality and health environments.
                                                                           Satisfaction in
                Satisfaction in schools,
Value                                                                      schools, hospitals,
                hospitals, and social
quantitative or                                                            and social
                buildings with heating
Qualitative)                                                               buildings with
                24%; with lighting 18%.
                                                                           heating 55%; with

                                                iii
                                                                            lighting 41%.
Date achieved 05/30/2003                                                    04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Satisfaction increased by more than 100%.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target Formally             Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval        Target         Completion or
                                              documents)        Values          Target Years
                Improved heat generation efficiency and reduction in heat losses in the
Indicator 1 :
                rehabilitated network of the CCS & CCN.
                                          CCS: new gas-
                CCS: 6 coal-fired and 13
                                          fired boilers &                   CCS: total of 50
                oil-fired boilers in
                                          CHP; not less                     MW boilers capacity
Value           operation; less than 40%
                                          than 92%                          & 2+2 MW CHP;
(quantitative heat generation
                                          efficiency.                       93% efficiency.
or Qualitative) efficiency.
                                          CCN: not less                     CCN: 95%
                CCN: 50% boiler
                                          than 94%                          efficiency.
                efficiency.
                                          efficiency.
Date achieved 05/30/2003                  04/30/2013                        04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)
                Number of buildings (schools, hospitals, social buildings) retrofitted with
Indicator 2 :
                energy efficiency equipment.
                                          53 schools, 48
                                          hospitals, 10                     36 schools, 41
                                          social buildings                  hospitals, 5 social
                0 schools, 0 hospitals, 0 retrofitted (total                buildings retrofitted;
Value           social buildings          of 111 buildings);                129 energy
(quantitative retrofitted or having an 70-80 energy                         efficiency audits
or Qualitative) energy efficiency audit efficiency audits                   performed in
                                          performed in                      schools, hospitals,
                                          schools, hospitals,               and social care
                                          and social                        buildings
                                          buildings
Date achieved 05/30/2003                  04/30/2013                        04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Total of 82 buildings retrofitted (74% achievement) due to cost overrun.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Level of awareness on energy efficiency measures and benefits increased.
                A communication and                                         A communication
                outreach program                                            and outreach
                carried out; 20 Local                                       program carried out;
Value           communities consulted;                                      20 Local
(quantitative 14.6% of schools &                                            communities
or Qualitative) hospitals and 20% of                                        consulted; 45.1% of
                households were aware                                       schools & hospitals
                of energy efficiency                                        and 49% of
                works carried out; 11%                                      households were

                                               iv
                of households were                                      aware of energy
                aware of benefits of                                    efficiency works
                implementing energy                                     carried out; 44% of
                efficiency measures;                                    households were
                10% of households were                                  aware of benefits of
                aware of the application                                implementing
                of energy efficiency                                    energy efficiency
                measures in own                                         measures;
                household;                                              19% of households
                19.8% of teachers were                                  were aware of the
                aware of the importance                                 application of energy
                of education for energy                                 efficiency measures
                efficiency, renewable                                   in own household;
                energy and climate                                      34.8% of teachers
                change                                                  were aware of the
                                                                        importance of
                                                                        education for energy
                                                                        efficiency,
                                                                        renewable energy
                                                                        and climate change
Date achieved 05/30/2003                                                04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Awareness increased by much more than 100%.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                             DO                      IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    06/04/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    12/02/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.37
  3    05/27/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.47
  4    05/27/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     2.29
  5    01/28/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     6.64
  6    11/08/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   13.84
  7    03/31/2008         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   17.58
  8    02/08/2009         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   21.10
  9    08/04/2009         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   24.83
 10    04/15/2010         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            26.39
 11    05/19/2011     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            28.25
 12    02/15/2012         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   39.19
 13    04/02/2013         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   48.62


H. Restructuring (if any)

                   Board     ISR Ratings    Amount
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
                  Approved       at       Disbursed at
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
                 PDO Change Restructuring Restructuring


                                            v
                                         in USD
                          DO   IP
                                         millions
                                                    To enable the government to
                                                    complete the original scope of
                                                    the project (cost overrun) and
                                                    to scale up energy efficiency
                                                    improvements to include:
                                                    rehabilitation of the heat
                                                    supply system of one large
  06/20/2007      N       S    S             7.36   complex of buildings, such as
                                                    the Nis Clinical Center;
                                                    lighting in schools; energy
                                                    efficiency improvements in
                                                    social buildings; energy
                                                    efficiency improvements in
                                                    additional schools and
                                                    hospitals across Serbia.
                                                    Extension from closing date
                                                    04/30/2010 to 10/31/2011, due
                                                    to long delay in effectiveness
  01/29/2010      N       S    S            25.58
                                                    of AF and since AF has
                                                    retained the same closing date
                                                    as the original project.
                                                    Extension from 10/31/2011
                                                    until 04/30/2013 as
                                                    disbursement was low due to
  10/20/2011              MS   MS           34.53
                                                    additional time required for
                                                    complex procurement
                                                    packages.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                    vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Energy sector. At the time of appraisal in 2003, the energy sector in Serbia suffered
from a variety of problems, including underpricing of services, lack of adequate
maintenance and investment expenditures, lack of competition, and excessive
employment resulting in a large fiscal drain on government resources. In 2001, low
energy prices caused a quasi-fiscal deficit of about US$ 1.1 billion, or 10 percent of
Serbia’s GDP. The sector also faced the challenges of reconstruction and restoration
of an adequate and reliable energy supply after the conflict of 1999. Compounding
these issues, inefficient use of energy was a major concern in the country.

At that time, the Serbian energy reform agenda was focused on establishing the legal
framework to enable the commercialization of the sector, improve governance
through the establishment of an independent regulator, and increase competition
within the sector. In 2004, the new Energy Law aimed at opening up the electricity
market to competition, and gave independent producers access to the transmission
system. It also established the legal and institutional framework for signing of the
“The Energy Community Treaty” in 2005, when South-East European countries and
the EU began the process of creating an Energy Community with a view to
broadening the internal EU energy market. At that point, Serbia formally joined the
regional and European energy integration process.

It was crucial back then that through improved corporate governance and increased
competition, energy costs would be reduced, thus mitigating the upward pressure on
prices. Efforts to diminish wasteful consumption of energy on the demand side were
also considered critical to easing affordability constraints and expected to increase
competitiveness and support GDP growth

Energy efficiency market. Increased energy efficiency was an important element in
managing future energy demand in Serbia. In 2003, relative to its GDP, the Serbian
economy was four times more energy intensive than the EU average. The government
acknowledged the need to tap into new opportunities for improving energy efficiency
and for the development of renewable and alternative energy resources. In the
buildings sector, Serbia had a large, unrealized potential for energy efficiency
improvements. Public buildings in Serbia had either very poor or no insulation, worn-
out building seals, and inefficient heating supply systems. The widespread use of dirty
fuels for heating, such as in the Clinical Centers of Serbia (CCS) and Nis (CCN), was
causing environmental and health problems. There was a clear need to improve end-
use efficiency and a need for qualified energy auditors and competent contractors to
execute the work.

Beginning in 2003, the government introduced small-scale programs to improve
energy efficiency, in particular in the public sector, and to encourage private financing
schemes for energy efficiency investments. All efforts to increase the efficiency of
energy use were led by the new Serbian Energy Efficiency Agency (SEEA). The
agency was created under the initiative of the European Agency for Reconstruction
(AER) and was financially supported by EAR during its first three years of operation.
At that time, it was important to gain practical experience in energy efficiency

                                           1
investments and realization of energy savings to generate acceptance by local
communities and political support for such measures. The project thus aimed to help
Serbia overcome several barriers to the development of the energy efficiency market –
in particular, the lack of information, coordinated policies, and practical examples of
inter-governmental agency cooperation necessary to realize the untapped potential of
energy efficiency.

Rational for Bank assistance. The World Bank played a major role in the Serbian
energy sector reform agenda. Its involvement was essential for: (i) leveraging its
experience in facilitating public and private initiatives to undertake energy efficiency
improvements; (ii) mobilizing other donors’ assistance for energy assistance; (iii)
weighing in on important demand-side policy reforms identified during project
preparation and implementation; and (iv) helping the government develop a
comprehensive energy policy agenda.

Higher level objectives to which the project contributed. At the time of appraisal in
March 2004, the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for Serbia and Montenegro was
updated and approved. The project was included in the TSS Update as part of the
FY04 program and would help support two of the TSS’s strategic objectives: (i)
restoring macroeconomic stability and external balance; and (ii) stimulating near-term
growth and creating a basis for a sustainable supply response. In the Country
Assistance Strategy (2005-2007), which built on the 2004 TSS, the World Bank’s
goals (consistent with those of the country) were to support far-reaching structural
reforms in the private sector (including energy sector reform). The CAS’s Goal 2
(“Creating a larger, more dynamic private sector”) illustrated how the project fit into
this goal and would contribute to the energy sector restructuring.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The development objective of the project was to improve energy efficiency in heating
buildings to make heating more affordable as well as to improve the functional and
health environment of the buildings’ users. An important associated objective was to
reduce the local and global environmental impact of dirty fuels used for heating
buildings in Serbia.

Key indicators linked to the PDO were:
 Quantified energy savings of the retrofitted public buildings and cost of heat per
   square meter;
 Improvement in air quality through reductions in emissions of local air pollutants
   (sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx), and particulates) and greenhouse
   gases (carbon dioxide (CO2)) produced by the boilers used by the Clinical Center
   of Belgrade for meeting its heat demand; and
 Increased end-user satisfaction measured through improvements in indoor air
   quality, indoor temperature, and perception surveys of improvement in comfort of
   pupils and patients.

Key output indicators included:
 Improved heat generation efficiency and reduction in heat losses in the
   rehabilitated network of the Clinical Center;
 Number of buildings retrofitted with energy efficiency equipment; and
 Outreach programs performed.

                                           2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The direct beneficiaries of improved heating quality and working conditions were to
be pupils, education staff, health care professionals, and patients using retrofitted
buildings across Serbia. In particular, pupils were to benefit from the replacement of
poorly designed and inadequate lighting with improved energy efficient lighting.

Residents of Serbia would benefit from reduced environmental impacts as a result of
more energy efficient public buildings and reduced trans-boundary pollutants and
greenhouse gases. In particular, residents living in the neighborhoods surrounding the
CCS and CCN were to benefit from decreased emissions of SOx and NOx due to the
replacement of coal-fired heating boilers with gas-fired ones.

The state budget (through the Health Insurance Fund) and participating municipalities
were expected to record financial savings due to lower heating expenses for renovated
schools and hospitals. In addition, the life of these buildings was to be extended by
making investments critical to the preservation of the building envelope.

Local communities were expected to benefit from improvements in highly visible
public service buildings. It was expected that awareness and acceptance of energy
efficiency measures and technologies would be enhanced, leading to their replication
in the future by public utilities and local governments. The project would also develop
the energy management retrofitting skills of local engineers and contractors, thus
creating local job opportunities.

1.5 Original Components
The total project cost was US$ 25 million (including US$ 4 million planned
Borrower’s contribution), consisting of three components as follows:

Component 1. Environmental Improvement, Rehabilitation of the Heat Supply
System, and Energy Efficiency Improvements in the Clinical Center of Serbia
(CCS) in Belgrade (financing US$ 7.47 million).
The CCS in Belgrade was the largest medical complex in the country. It comprised 76
buildings supplied with heat and hot water from 72 very old boiler units using lignite
and heavy oil. The component consisted of three original subcomponents: (i)
replacement of all old boilers at the CCS with a new natural gas-fired, combined heat
and power (CHP) plant for production of about 60 MW of heat, sanitary hot water,
and steam, and 2 MW of power generation; (ii) modernization of building heat
substations and reconfiguration of the heat distribution system; and (iii) energy
efficient retrofitting of a maternity hospital in the CCS, selected as a high priority
building by the government, to improve its envelope and roof insulation and windows
and to install thermostatic regulators.

Component 2. Energy Efficiency Improvements in Social Service Buildings
(Schools and Hospitals) across Serbia (financing US$ 12.36 million).
This component financed energy efficiency measures in selected school and hospital
buildings across Serbia through tailored investment packages combining supply- and

                                          3
demand-side improvements. The types of investment included automatic temperature
control, roof/ wall/ piping/ basement ceiling insulation, window repair or replacement,
balancing and thermostatic valves, and improvements in lighting in schools by
providing adequate and energy efficient luminaires. A total of about 60-70 buildings,
including 17 primary schools with heated floor space of about 51,000 m2 and 12
hospital buildings with a total heated floor space of about 68,000 m2, were to be
retrofitted over the project implementation.

Component 3. Technical Assistance (financing US$ 0.46 million, plus US$ 0.5
incremental operating costs, US$ 1.5 million unallocated costs, and US$ 2.71
million contingencies).
Specific tasks that were financed included: (i) design and supervision of works in
public buildings, including design, technical specification, bid document preparation,
procurement, implementation of civil works, and quality control; (ii) monitoring and
evaluation (M&E), including purchase of monitoring equipment (such as heat meters,
temperature data loggers, wind-meters, etc.). Social monitoring data were collected to
measure the impact of the investments, if any, on the energy efficiency behavior of
beneficiaries; (iii) development and implementation of a communication plan for the
project; (iv) project preparation costs for consultants for energy auditing and
investment proposal preparation; and (v) project financial management and auditing.

Overall responsibility for implementation of the project was under an inter-ministerial
“Project Steering Committee” (PSC) chaired by the Ministry of Mining and Energy
(MOME) and consisting of eight different ministries’ representatives. To carry out the
day-to-day activities of project implementation, including operation of the Special
Account and consolidation of Project Management Reports, a small Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) was created under the supervision of the PSC.
Responsibilities of various agencies were as follows: for Component 1, the Ministry
of Health (MOH), with the assistance of the CCS; for Component 2, the Ministry of
Education (MOE) for implementation of energy efficiency improvements in the
school buildings and the MOH for implementation of similar works in the hospitals;
SEEA would provide technical support; and for Component 3, the SEEA was
responsible for implementation together with MOME.

1.6 Revised Components (for Additional Financing)1
The objective of the Additional Financing (AF) of the project remained in line with
the original development objective. The AF was approved to help Serbia go beyond
the technology demonstration pilots, overcome several barriers to the development of
the energy efficiency market, and implement demand- and supply-side energy
efficiency improvements. The AF was to maximize cost-effectiveness and timeliness,
complement ongoing activities, and utilize the existing implementation arrangements
of the original project. The AF was approved for a total project cost of US$ 30 million
(including US$ 2 million planned Borrower’s contribution). Changes in the scope of
the project included:




1
    As of May 25, 2007 - see Annex 1 of the ICR for Project Costs by Component for the initial project and its AF.



                                                          4
Component 1. Energy System Modernization (AF US$ 5.94 million).
The CCN is the second largest clinical center after the one in Belgrade. At the time of
approval of the AF, the CCN got its heating and hot water from an old coal-fired plant
and two oil-fired boilers. The coal-fired boiler was at the end of its operating life and
constituted a safety and environmental hazard. Also, most buildings of the CCN were
in need of rehabilitation and energy efficiency improvements. For the energy system
modernization, two coal-fired and two oil-fired boilers were replaced by one gas-fired
boiler and energy efficiency improvements were implemented in 19 buildings. The
energy system was designed taking into consideration energy efficiency measures in
all the CCN buildings, which reduced the energy supply requirements for the same
energy demand. This approach was taken to demonstrate the enhanced benefits from
coordinated implementation of supply- and demand-side energy efficiency measures.

Component 2. Energy Efficiency Improvements in Social Service Buildings
(Schools, Hospitals, and Orphanages) across Serbia (AF US$ 20.42 million).
Building on the successful implementation of the buildings retrofit, the AF helped to
further set the stage for improving end-use efficiency and triggering the development
of a market for energy efficiency services. Public buildings requiring energy
efficiency measures remained a priority for the government. Based on technical and
economic criteria agreed with the World Bank, the government prioritized candidate
sites for energy efficiency improvements. Based on experience gained during
implementation of the original project, working conditions (quality of air,
temperature, and lighting) and social and demographic impacts were additionally
considered in the selection of sites and buildings for retrofitting. Additional public
buildings covered under the project included the Kragujevac University, the Vranje
Clinical Center, 32 schools, 35 hospitals, and 10 social buildings as well as provision
of improved lighting in 20 schools. Eligible energy efficiency measures were the
same as in the original project (Component 2).

Component 3. Technical Assistance (AF US$ 1.13 million, plus US$ 2.51
contingencies).
This component included: (i) funds to provide technical support such as energy audits
and monitoring and to undertake external communication activities; and (ii) project
financial management, auditing, and incremental costs covering office space and
facilities for the PIU, operating and maintenance costs of equipment, vehicle, office
supplies, utilities, communications costs, translation costs, and office equipment.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
Dissolution of the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro on June 5, 2006. The
Republic of Serbia took over all obligations of the project on the same date. Since the
original goals of the project set out in the PAD were designated only for Serbia, the
dissolution had no effect on the project. Adoption of the new Constitution on
November 8, 2006, did not affect the project.

Closure of the Serbian Energy Efficiency Agency. The SEEA established through
the Energy Law of 2004 and financially supported by the EAR, had a broad mandate
of improving energy efficiency in Serbia. The project was to help the SEEA develop
its capacity to provide policy advice to the government, and to design and execute
programs that raise awareness of energy saving opportunities. The SEEA was to
provide technical advice and was responsible for implementation of the technical

                                           5
assistance (TA) component together with the MOME. After EAR’s financial support
to the SEEA ended by the third year of its operation, the agency had to significantly
adjust its salaries to be in line with the government’s compensation policies. This led
to a significant disruption as most of its staff progressively left the Agency. As a
result, by the end of the project, energy efficiency policy, coordination, and capacity
building activities were mainly carried out by the MEDEP. Moreover, project
implementation was mainly coordinated by the PIU at that time. In September 2012,
the SEEA was closed in the context of fiscal consolidation, along with several other
independent government agencies. The SEEA’s responsibilities were transferred to
the Ministry of Energy, Development, and Environmental Protection (MEDEP) along
with most of its staff. Because this happened at the very end of the project, the impact
of the closure of the SEEA on the project was negligible.

Project schedule and scope. The initial project (P075343 and IDA Credit No. 3870)
was extended once – from April 30, 2010, until October 31, 2011. It closed on
October 31, 2011. The AF (effective from November 13, 2008; P090492 and IBRD
Loan No. 7466-YF, as well as IDA Credit No. 3870-1 YF) was extended twice, from
April 30, 2010, until October 31, 2011, and later until April 30, 2013. Overall, the
project was extended by three years. The extensions were granted following requests
from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to: (i) finalize the completion of heat supply
rehabilitation works and energy efficiency improvements in the CCN and retrofit
selected public buildings with energy efficiency equipment; (ii) compensate for delays
due to complex procurement packages and cost overruns (see section 2.2 for details);
and (iii) reallocate funds.

Funding allocations. In November 2009, the Credit Agreement (IDA Credit No.
3870 YF) was revised to reallocate funds among expenditure categories to further
utilize the unallocated category as well as address earlier category overdraws. The
reallocation was necessary to maintain the continuity of the project and covered
current and future commitments for the project up to the closing date. The
reallocations are shown below:
 A transfer of US$ 133,000 from Category 5 (Unallocated) to Category 1 (Goods)
 A transfer of US$ 439,000 from Category 5 to Category 2 (Works)
 A transfer of US$ 167,000 from Category 5 to Category 3 (Consultants’ services)
 A transfer of US$ 301,000 from Category 5 to Category 4 (Incremental operating
     costs)

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
The project design considered lessons learned from several energy efficiency projects
in the region, such as World Bank-financed projects in Belarus, Lithuania, Poland,
and Romania. These projects highlighted the importance of high-level commitment at
the ministry level and of quality control and support for investment proposals. This
lesson learned was incorporated into the project design by creating a PSC with clear
Terms of Reference, business processes, and resources before the project was
approved. This was an important factor contributing to facilitate the decision making
process during implementation, which involved the coordination of a complex
institutional set-up involving eight different ministries. Ownership from local
governments was also taken into account, as demonstrated by the funding
contributions of the gas pipeline to the CCS by the City of Belgrade.

                                           6
Another lesson learned was that coordinated and significant donor support for
institutional development was needed. This was addressed in the project by ensuring
donor support (SIDA, EBRD, and KfW) for demonstration projects in the residential
sector as well as EAR financing for the SEEA. During preparation, the project
coordinated closely with KfW, which was working with the district heating
companies and had conducted feasibility studies of heat metering and heat tariff
reforms.

The project was prepared by a large, experienced team of local and international
experts. USAID had funded a market assessment study on the potential of energy
efficiency that was an important input into the project design. Comprehensive supply
and demand side EE measures were at that time an innovative approach to reducing
energy consumption and harmful emissions in Serbia. Because of the lack of
experience in Serbia and in the region in terms of the implementation of a
comprehensive package consisting of investments in Combined Heat and Power
plants, heat distribution networks, and thermal retrofits of buildings, cost estimates for
the CCS were substantially underestimated. The implementation of such measures
also proved to be more complex and lengthier that initially envisioned, leading to time
over-runs.

As part of project preparation, M&E was established. Moreover, communication and
social monitoring were key elements in the project’s design. The communication
strategy prepared included a design for feedback loops into technical monitoring,
design and implementation, and effectiveness of communication.

The overall project risk at appraisal was assessed as Moderate, with the following
Substantial risks:
(i) Energy price reform does not continue: This risk partially materialized. In the early
years, the risk was adequately mitigated with the support of the Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC) 2 project, which successfully supported structural reforms to improve
performance in the energy sector. Serbia enacted the Energy Law in 2004, set up an
independent Energy Regulator, improved payment discipline and commercialization
of the energy sector, and adopted regulated electricity prices for final customers as of
January 2008. Power tariffs increased from ca. 2€cent/KWh when the project started
to 5.2€cent/KWh by the closing date. 2 However, power and district heating tariffs
were and are still below full cost recovery. Although failure to increase prices did not
directly affected the financial viability of the project’s investments (see section 3.3),
they pose a serious barrier to scale-up energy efficiency investments in the buildings
sector.
(ii) The SEEA is not part of the energy policymaking process: As foreseen in the
mitigation measures, technical assistance was provided by EAR for the institutional
development of the SEEA for the first three years of its operation. Once EAR support
ended, salaries and staff had to be reduced to bring it in line with government
compensation policies. This led to considerable demotivation and posed important
sustainability risks for the agency. The agency became more of an implementer than


2
    Energy Agency Annual Report, Republic of Serbia, 2011.



                                                       7
a facilitator or coordinator, and the SEEA had difficulty establishing a strong
relationship with the relevant government entities and contributing to energy
efficiency policy development in Serbia. By the end of the project, SEEA was closed
and its entire staff was transferred to MEDEP. As a result, MEDEP took over all the
responsibilities for policy making, coordination, and capacity building in the energy
efficiency field.
(iii) Weak implementation capacity of the SEEA and the CCS affects the pace of
implementation: This risk did partially materialize, although the proposed mitigation
measure (engaging qualified consultants) significantly helped to overcome it.
Continuous facilitation and institutional oversight from the PSC was needed. Several
staff were hired by the PIU to better handle the large number of project sites and
procurement packages.
(iv) Sufficient counterpart financing for the CCS, schools, and hospitals is not
available: Large cost overruns for the CCS component and public building retrofitting
did materialize. Although planned in the Serbian budget for 2013, the central
government contribution of US$ 2 million for the AF was not realized as of the
project’s closing date. To compensate for this short-fall, the borrower made available
through the MOH and the City of Belgrade some funds to avoid a further reduction in
the number of hospital buildings to receive energy efficiency investments and for the
financing of the gas pipeline to the CCS.

Overall, the risk assessment at appraisal proved to be accurate and well estimated.
Mitigation measures contributed to diminish the impact of the risks that did
materialized. Project design was ambitious in view of the complex institutional
implementation arrangements but it was highly relevant for providing these
institutions with a learning experience essential to change their attitude and behavior
towards energy efficiency investments. Flexible project design that allowed the PIU to
offset weak implementation capacity at CSS and SEEA together with a strong
coordination role of the PSC helped overcome the main risks.


2.2 Implementation
During the course of the project (both initial project and AF), three extensions were
approved (see section 1.7). The project was never at risk and ratings for project
implementation performance were almost exclusively Satisfactory throughout
implementation. However, important delays in works at the CCS and large cost
overruns were not adequately flagged during implementation (see below under
“negative factors”). Increased realism when rating the Implementation Status Reports
(ISRs) may have helped garner additional attention and potentially resolve
implementation issues sooner.

Mid-term review. In December 2008, the World Bank conducted a Mid-Term
Review (MTR) that assessed progress to date on all project components and
implementation issues as Satisfactory. The MTR expected that the objectives of the
project would be met. It also identified actions to be taken to ensure successful project
completion.

The following factors affected project implementation:




                                           8
Positive
 Strong government commitment. Even before appraisal, a PSC comprised of
   several relevant ministries had been established for coordination. The PSC was
   chaired by the MOME and was responsible for timely approval of investment
   packages for schools and hospitals, compliance with World Bank procurement
   guidelines, and monitoring of project implementation.
 Economically attractive energy efficiency investments. Rising energy prices
   reduced the payback periods on energy efficiency investments (i.e., the retrofitting
   works saved 42.5 GWh, equaling approximately €2.5 million, with an average
   payback time of seven years). This helped strengthen public interest in energy
   efficiency savings.
 Increased interest in the implementation of energy efficiency measures. The city
   of Nis requested an increase in the capacity of the CCN’s new heat supply system.
   The objective was to allow the shutdown of a nearby low quality fuel oil fired
   8MW plant to further improve efficiency of supply and diminish the
   environmental impacts in neighborhoods surrounding the facility. The MOH
   successfully sought World Bank approval and the PIU worked closely with the
   technical staff of the CCN to ensure the smooth integration of this additional
   capacity increase in the overall project scope and schedule.
 A legal framework for a solid enabling environment for the creation of a market
   for energy efficiency investments. This framework was established in parallel with
   the implementation of the project. The Energy Law of 2004 ceased to be valid
   when a new Energy Law was adopted in August 2011 (further amended twice in
   2012 – see section 3.5). In July 2010, the first National Energy Efficiency Action
   Plan (NEEAP) was agreed on, setting the targets for domestic energy
   consumption. The project was included in the NEEAP. Other key pieces of
   legislation included the enactment of an Energy Efficiency Law in March 2013,
   amendments to the Construction Law to introduce buildings standards for new
   buildings and renovations, and amendments to the Public Procurement Law to
   include energy efficiency criteria.
 Build-up of a market for energy efficiency goods and services. Fostered partially
   by the project’s demand, a market for energy efficiency goods and services
   quickly developed. Engineering skills for conducting energy audits, establishing
   technical specifications for bidding documents, and supervising installation of
   energy efficiency measures were significantly enhanced. More than 100 quality
   energy audits were performed in public buildings during implementation and more
   than 1,000 energy efficiency auditors were trained and certified by the Ministry of
   Construction and Urbanism. Also, the capacity of contractors improved, providing
   the possibility of retrofitting a much higher number of buildings per year with
   good quality work. Finally, a manufacturers’ base for provision of energy
   efficiency goods and services was created including: window producers such as
   PVC frame and assembling of double and triple glazing; lighting and fittings; and
   imports of insulation materials.

Negative
 Large cost overruns for the CCS component and for the retrofitting of schools and
   hospitals. Costs overruns (about twice the original estimate for the CCS) are
   explained by the following factors: (i) an upward trend in costs for labor,
   insulation materials, and energy installations; (ii) adverse exchange rate
   developments for imported materials; and (iii) underestimated costs in the

                                          9
    technical specifications due to the lack of experience in the implementation on
    large and complex demand and supply side investments in the country and the
    region (i.e., in the original project, budget proposals were initially based on
    preliminary designs for the CCS while little information was available to better
    estimate these costs). Despite these cost overruns, the investments were still
    economically attractive, as savings in operational expenditures were also higher
    than expected due to the investment in highly efficient heat delivery systems (see
    section 3.3).
   Delays in implementation. Cost overruns and limited capacity for procurement
    and implementation of complex supply-side energy efficiency measures in the
    CCS led to delays specially in the initial implementation period (until 2007).
    Overall, frequent changes in Task Team Leaders (seven in total) also negatively
    affected the Bank’s ability to effectively support implementation and adequately
    flag such issues for management attention and action. The PIU experienced a
    steep learning curve, but overcoming these challenges actually helped to optimize
    technical specifications and contributed to the significant acceleration in
    implementation thereafter.
   Significant delays in Parliamentary approval of the AF. This caused delayed
    completion of retrofitting for two schools planned for the first phase and of
    rehabilitation works at the CCS maternity hospital (planned for the first phase) as
    the CCS had to wait for funds from the AF. As the delay in approval would have
    also caused engineering design and supervision consulting contracts to extend
    beyond the initial project closing date, the government requested an extension of
    closing on three occasions.
   Nonsustainability of the SEEA as an implementing agency. The SEEA was
    financially supported by EAR, but once the support ended, the agency was not
    transferred to the state budget due, among others, to a significant misalignment in
    compensation policies. This experience proved that the sustainability of a
    nonrevenue earning and budget-dependent new agency divergent from other
    budget entities can be a challenge.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Step-by-step monitoring, verification, and evaluation by the PIU and external
consultants were critical for this project. The M&E design was established and
described in the Project Implementation Plan. Ongoing M&E was conducted by the
PIU, and quarterly progress and financial monitoring reports were submitted to the
World Bank. Appropriate data were evaluated and used to inform decision making
(e.g., for the reallocation of funds) and to improve the technical specifications of
subprojects. For instance, M&E results from the implementation of the first phase of
building retrofits helped improve the design of energy efficiency measures in the AF,
resulting in a 10 percent increase, on average, in energy savings. The regular M&E
data served as a basis for the MTR and for definition of key implementation issues
requiring management attention.

There were some drawbacks in the monitoring of indicators on emissions reduction
(air pollutants and greenhouse gases) and financial savings, which required significant
efforts in terms of data collection and were managed by third parties. This led to some
shortcomings during implementation. In 2007/08, the Institute of Public Health partly
stopped monitoring soot as monitoring stations ceased to exist. Also, there were some
monitoring distortions for NOx indicators because of nearby major road works and

                                          10
traffic rerouting. Some indicators, in particular for financial savings, relied on
information gathered by other stakeholders, such as CCS Institutes, schools, and
hospitals. The energy and financial savings at the CCS, for instance, were not
monitored with the usual metering tools (i.e., heat meters at the building level to
establish the baseline), which made a before-after comparison of values difficult.

Social monitoring data were also collected to establish the impact of energy efficiency
investments on end-users’ behavior, awareness, and level of satisfaction. Baseline
data were collected before the retrofitting works. Satisfaction information from end-
users was used to identify and solve unforeseen issues that arose after implementation.
For instance, it was decided to change the ventilation system for classrooms given that
the upper sash window was not being well operated by users.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards. The Environmental Assessment (EA) category for the project and its AF
was B since the project mostly involved rehabilitation works. An Environmental
Impact Assessment, including an Environmental Management Plan, for the CCS and
CCN component was prepared, publicly consulted on, and publicly disclosed. An
Environmental Management Plan for the energy efficiency retrofits of buildings was
prepared during project implementation and was also used for the retrofitting
activities under the AF. Rehabilitation of the CCS and the CCN required
environmental protection measures during the construction works and provisions for
emission controls in the design and operation of boilers. The energy efficiency
retrofitting works involved improvements in heating systems, insulation, thermostatic
valves, and other installations in public buildings.

The PIU ensured that contractors complied with applicable health and safety
regulations during execution. Regular environmental safeguards reviews were
undertaken by the World Bank team, which: (i) assessed that the works were executed
with due care for environmental protection as well as for the users of public
institutions; and (ii) recommended proper documentation with respect to safeguards
control. Feasibility studies for the rehabilitation works in the CCS and the CCN
confirmed that no acquisition of land or displacement of people was required. There
were no significant deviations or waivers from the World Bank’s safeguard policies.
Compliance with World Bank environmental safeguards was considered Satisfactory
throughout implementation.

Financial management. The project used a suitable, automated accounting system
and quarterly financial management (FM) reports were submitted within the given
deadlines to the World Bank. A FM action plan, agreed upon with the borrower and
based on frequent integrated fiduciary reviews, was successfully implemented. The
plan contained specific deadlines and remedial actions for internal control weaknesses.
The FM function in the PIU was adequately staffed with an experienced and qualified
specialist. External auditor reports were satisfactory and reliable. The World Bank’s
FM specialist frequently carried out FM supervisions to assess the FM arrangements,
which were rated Satisfactory throughout project implementation.

Procurement. There were no major procurement issues during implementation. The
ISRs’ ratings were Moderately Satisfactory or Satisfactory. Delays in evaluation and
approval of consultancy procurements resulted in small slippages in procurement

                                         11
milestones. However, risks were timely and appropriately identified and the PIU
continuously increased its procurement management capacity and experience.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Transition and post-completion. The MEDEP is currently working with KfW and
JICA to undertake the thermal rehabilitation of schools that were in the pipeline of the
World Bank-financed energy efficiency project under the same financing modality
(i.e., providing grants). In terms of follow-up, the MEDEP confirmed its interest in
scaling up efforts in energy efficiency in the buildings sector as a way to: (i) reduce
the fiscal deficit by decreasing energy expenditures; (ii) mitigate the impact of needed
energy price increases; and (iii) undertake renovation of the building stock while
helping to meet its national energy savings target. To this end, it requested technical
assistance from the World Bank on the formulation, design, and implementation of a
large-scale energy efficiency program for the buildings sector, building on the
implementation experience under the project and other experiences across the region.

Operation and maintenance arrangements (Component 1). After its rehabilitation,
the CCS is considered the most modern and environmentally friendly heat supply
system in the country. The official license for the heating system operation of the
CCN was received in February 2012. The heating system operations of both the CCS
and the CCN are assisted by professional operators fully qualified in modern and fully
automatic central control systems and emissions monitoring. As of today, the
operations of the heating systems in the CCS and CCN are profitable, as revenues
from energy sales are able to cover the costs of inputs and maintenance. However,
given that revenues and expenditures are managed by other institutions than the CCS
and CCN themselves, maintenance costs have been reportedly reduced to the lowest
levels in the case of the CCS.

Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity. During the project, important
progress was made to put in place the legislative and regulatory framework to support
the development of an energy efficiency market in the buildings sector. Key pieces of
legislation include the enactment of the Energy Efficiency Law, amendments to the
Construction Law to introduce buildings standards for new buildings and renovations,
and amendments to the Public Procurement Law to include energy efficiency criteria.
The government also started the process of developing its Second NEEAP and energy
efficiency indicators. Significant technical capacity was developed at the PIU during
project implementation. However, since these staff were hired as consultants, there is
a risk that this capacity is lost after the project’s closure.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Satisfactory
The relevance of project objectives was high given the needs of the energy and
environment sectors, as the objectives supported the country’s economic development.
Serbia is one of the most energy inefficient economies among countries in the Europe
and Central Asia region. The country uses two times more energy per dollar of GDP
than its neighbors in the Western Balkans and almost 2.5 times more than EU
countries. It has enormous potential to realize fiscal savings, improve competitiveness,
and move towards EU standards.


                                          12
The relevance of the project design proved to be high as it focused on energy efficient
retrofitting measures in public buildings, which are highly visible, have a significant
demonstration effect, and create awareness of energy efficiency. Project benefits are
understandable to the wider community and boost the trust into further public
expenditure decisions. The project design served as a model for other Bank-financed
energy efficiency projects in the region (such as projects in Macedonia, Montenegro,
and Bosnia and Herzegovina). The relevance of the institutional implementation
arrangements involving several institutions is also high. They allowed public officials
to gain practical experience through managing energy efficiency investments in a few
high priority buildings and also helped reinforce public approval to foster broader
replication.

The project’s objective, design, and implementation are therefore still highly relevant
for Serbia. Reducing energy consumption and air pollution and making heating more
affordable continue to be priorities for Serbia, as stated in its Energy Strategy to 2030
and evidenced by recent legal and regulatory measures to support these goals. The
project is also consistent with the environmental sustainability pillar of the ongoing
FY12-15 CPS. The World Bank’s Environment Department gave the 2007 Green
Award to this project for its effectiveness and results.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory
The project has fully achieved its development objective, as energy efficiency in
buildings improved, heating became more affordable, the functional and health
environment of users improved, and the local and global environmental impact of the
use of dirty fuels for heating buildings in Serbia was reduced (a detailed table
reflecting the project’s achievements and detailed outputs is in Annex 2). One rather
complex formulation of the PDO (heating affordability measured through cost of heat
per square meter) was difficult to precisely measure and compare as the state Health
Insurance Fund pays the heating bills and consumption-based billing is often not
possible. Nevertheless, the improvements in heating efficiency were measurable and
significant, supporting the conclusion that more efficient heating allows more
affordable heating (details as summarized below).


Table 1. Project development objectives results
 Indicators              Baseline           Target Value       Actual            Comments
                         05/30/2003         04/30/2013
 PDO Indicator 1: Improvement in air quality through reduction in emission of local air
 pollutants and greenhouse gases produced by the boilers used by the CCS & CCN
 Reduction in SO2        CCS 780 tpa +      CCS 20 tpa +       0 tpa emission    Achieved
                         CCN 220 tpa        CCN 0 tpa
 Reduction in NOx        CCS 100 tpa +      CCS 40 tpa +       50 tpa emission   Achieved
                         CCN 11 tpa         CCN 8 tpa
 Reduction in Ash        CCS 130 tpa +      0 tpa              0 tpa emission    Achieved
                         CCN 53 tpa
 Reduction in CO2        CCS 48,000 tpa + CCS 20,000 tpa 25,000 tpa              Achieved
                         CCN 9,000 tpa      +                  emission
                                            CCN 6,000 tpa




                                            13
 Indicators                Baseline          Target Value       Actual             Comments
                           05/30/2003        04/30/2013
 PDO Indicator 2: Quantified energy savings of the retrofitted public buildings, and cost of heat
 per square meter.
 Average annual energy     373 kWh/m2        207 kWh/m2         125 kWh/m2         Achieved
 consumption in schools
 Average annual energy     395 kWh/m2        231 kWh/m2         185 kWh/m2         Achieved
 consumption in
 hospitals
 Cost of heat per sq.      N.A.              N.A.               N.A.               See below
 meter in public
 buildings
 PDO Indicator 3: Increased end-user satisfaction measured through perception surveys
 including perspectives in improved functionality & health environment.
 Improved indoor           Schools: 9.7      N.A.               Schools: 5.3%      Achieved
 comfort & satisfaction    Hospitals: 18.0%                     Hospitals: 59.2%
 re: heating (% of         Social buildings:                    Social buildings:
 respondents reported to 44.4%                                  70.8%
 be satisfied with
 heating)
 Reduced noise             School teachers:  N.A.               School teachers:   Achieved
 disturbance               50.7%                                9.7%
 (% of respondents who     Pupils: 57.90%                       Pupils: 21.50%
 reported noise
 disturbances)
 Improved indoor           School teachers:  N.A.               School teachers:   Achieved
 comfort & satisfaction    19%                                  55.5%
 re: lighting              Pupils: 17.4%                        Pupils: 23%
 (% of respondents         Hospitals: 16.90%                    Hospitals:
 reported being satisfied                                       45.30%
 with lighting)

PDO Indicator 1. Improvement in air quality through reduction in emissions of local
air pollutants and greenhouse gases produced by the CCS and CCN boilers:
 Reduced emissions - Achieved. Emissions of local air pollutants (SO2, NOx, ash,
    soot, solid particles) and greenhouse gases (CO2) produced by the CCS and CCN
    boilers were significantly reduced. In particular, emissions of SO2, ash, soot, and
    other solid particles were eliminated since both the CCS and the CCN now use gas
    instead of low-quality coal to meet their needs for heat, hot water, and steam (e.g.,
    the CCS’s SO2 emissions of 780 tons per annum (tpa) and the CCN’s SO2
    emissions of 220 tpa both reduced to 0 tpa; the CCS’s NOx emissions reduced
    from 100 tpa to 50 tpa; the CCS’s ash emissions of 130 tpa and the CCN’s ash
    emissions of 53 tpa both reduced to 0 tpa). The CCS and CCN’s greenhouse gas
    CO2 emissions were reduced by more than 50 percent (e.g., the CCS’s CO2
    emissions of 48,000 tpa reduced to 25,000 tpa).

PDO Indicator 2. Quantified energy savings of the retrofitted buildings and cost of
heat per square meter.
 Energy savings - Achieved. Overall 82 buildings were retrofitted during the
   project, including 36 schools, 41 hospital buildings, and 5 social care institutions.
   Energy consumption in these buildings decreased by about 60 percent after
   completion of works according to monitored data, compared to an expected target
   value of 45 percent in the PAD. There were shortcomings in the completeness of
   baseline data in the CCS so energy savings for this component are based on an
   average of only those values that were measurable. In all other buildings,

                                               14
    measurement equipment was installed before the works, thus allowing the
    monitoring of energy savings.
   Financial savings. End-beneficiaries (schools/hospitals) were not obligated to
    repay investment costs. Financial savings from energy efficiency improvements
    accrued to the municipalities (in the case of schools), to the State budget (in case
    of hospitals through the Health Insurance Fund) which reportedly made budgetary
    adjustments to the entities’ energy budgets as a result of the projects. It is
    estimated that the new heat supply systems of the CCS and the CCN resulted in
    annual financial savings between EUR 0.5 and 1 million, as visualized by energy
    bills and registered by the Health Insurance Fund. In addition, 14 retrofitted
    buildings (out of 82 in total) were connected to District Heating (DH). Given that
    consumption-based billing is not the norm and that buildings are based on their
    floor area, it is reasonable to assume that financial savings accrued to these
    publically owned DH utilities.
   Heat cost per square meter. The heat cost varies significantly depending on the
    type of fuel. Since there is no baseline for the cost of heat per square meter in
    public buildings and that in some cases buildings were connected to DH, a
    comparison was not possible. However, the efficiency of the new heating systems
    was measured. It increased from about 45 percent to 96 percent as a result of the
    rehabilitation work in the district heating networks of the CCS and the CCN.

PDO Indicator 3. Increased end-user satisfaction as measured through perception
surveys, including perspectives on improved functionality and health environment.
 End-user satisfaction increased – Achieved. Satisfaction increased by around 130
    percent, including satisfaction due to improved functionality and health
    environment such as from improved heating and lighting. Noise disturbance
    decreased by around 50 percent (see Table 1 below).
 End-user awareness increased - Achieved. The selection of public buildings, such
    as schools, hospitals, and other social buildings, for retrofitting helped to increase
    awareness of energy efficiency within local communities. Awareness of energy
    efficiency works undertaken and the benefits of energy efficiency increased by an
    average of 240 percent, thus demonstrating the multiplier effect of implementing
    energy efficiency measures in highly visible public buildings. End-users
    confirmed they were inspired by the energy efficiency works implemented in
    public buildings, and their application of energy efficiency measures at home
    reportedly increased by 90 percent, according to social monitoring surveys (see
    Table 2 below).

    Table 2. Results (before and after) of the social monitoring surveys (original
             project and AF) on end-users’ satisfaction and awareness
End-users’:                                                                   Survey Result
Satisfaction with heating                                                   Increased by 129%
Noise disturbance                                                           Decreased by 48%
Satisfaction with lighting                                                  Increased by 132%
Awareness of energy efficiency works                                        Increased by 172%
Awareness of energy efficiency measures and benefits of energy efficiency   Increased by 309%
Application of energy efficiency at home                                    Increased by 90%
Awareness of importance of energy efficiency education                      Increased by 28%




                                                15
Other achievements
 Capacity building of technical skills in energy efficiency. Important engineering
   skills were developed through project implementation. A professional pool of
   trained energy auditors was established in regional energy efficiency centers
   within local universities across the country (Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac,
   and Kraljevo). Both preliminary and detailed high-quality energy audits were
   conducted to identify a final list of public buildings to be retrofitted. In total, 129
   energy audits were completed in 64 schools, 48 hospitals, and 17 social care
   institutions.
 Development of technical standards for energy efficiency investments. During
   implementation, technical specifications such as energy efficient standards for
   building renovation were enforced and tested. These standards were explicitly
   requested, strictly supervised, and continuously improved by the PIU. Their
   successful implementation triggered local demand for energy efficiency measures
   and increased awareness of the importance of high-quality work when undertaking
   such investments. The project contributed to developing contractors’ and
   manufacturers’ capacity (both in quality and quantity) all over the country and
   provided the possibility of retrofitting more buildings per year.
 Tested and improved energy efficiency technology. The project further increased
   end-user satisfaction due to a change in the ventilation options for school
   classrooms. It was noticed that in the newly retrofitted schools, the upper window
   sash for ventilation was not well controlled by users, which could create excessive
   heat consumption due to an overly high ventilation rate. Also, when temperatures
   were very low, the cold air coming from these windows was not acceptable for
   pupils, so the windows were often not open. To prevent such weaknesses in the
   operation procedure, ventilation devices were installed at the top of the windows
   that could be opened and closed according to the needs for ventilation (without
   opening the windows during classes), which ensured a minimal fresh air rate.
 A communication drive to increase demand for energy efficiency. Tailored
   communication tools for each target group were designed and an outreach
   program was carried out, particularly during the original project (e.g., learning
   days and information workshops, educational material, videos, regional round
   tables). In addition, a Benefit Sharing Scheme was developed and Memoranda of
   Understanding were signed with 10 local self-governments to ensure that part of
   the financial energy savings was kept by end-users. However, in only one
   municipality, Velika Plana, the scheme was implemented and the local
   government re-invested the savings in further energy efficiency measures in the
   local school.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory
Realized energy savings and therefore environmental benefits for the retrofitted
buildings were much higher than expected at appraisal and are comparable with
international benchmarks in the UK and Germany. Over the 10 years of
implementation (initial project and AF), energy efficiency investments were
implemented in a total of 82 buildings (36 schools, 41 hospitals – including hospital
buildings within the CCS and the CCN – and 5 social care institutions). Relevant
economic, financial, and environmental information includes cost-benefit and
incremental cost analyses (see Annex 3).


                                           16
Component 1 (CCS of Belgrade – original project). The cost-benefit analysis at
appraisal resulted in an economic rate of return (ERR) of 32.4 percent. The simulation
in Annex 3 shows an estimated ERR of 33 percent after project completion. The
indicative investment cost of the thermal rehabilitation of the CCS was US$ 7.53
million, compared to a final investment cost of US$ 15 million. As mentioned in
section 2.2., the following factors explain the cost overruns: (i) an upward trend in
costs for labor, insulation materials, and energy installations; (ii) adverse exchange
rate developments for imported materials; and (iii) underestimated costs in the
technical specifications. Although the cost overrun was significant, the ERR remains
good, and just about the same as the one calculated at appraisal. One of the key
determinants of the project’s profitability include: (i) the substitution effect in the heat
supply system from high-cost fuel oil to lower-cost natural gas.

Together with the energy efficiency, the reducing of the air pollution was the main
objective of this project. Reducing of C02 emission amounts 64 to 70 percent,
reducing of SO2 emission is 100 percent (no SO2 in natural gas), and reducing of NOx
emission is about 76 percent. The emissions taken into account for low-quality fuel oil,
light oil and coal are based on a very low efficiency of the boilers of the CCS of
Belgrade.

A shortcoming of the economic analysis is that the technical monitoring of the energy
efficiency works for Component 1 (CCS – original project) for the baseline
information is weak. It was not conducted with the usual metering tools and the
baseline was insufficient for an exact comparison (such as before and after metering
of the heat on every outlet, metering the indoor temperature, collecting precise data on
the delivery of raw fuel, and taking into account all eventual parameters that influence
the comparison of heat consumed and energy delivered and paid). Therefore, it is not
possible to know exactly how much energy was saved or to compare the energy
consumption before and after project implementation, which also hinders a precise
calculation of the payback time and the ERR. However, by the end of the project,
accurate monitoring and management systems were in place, providing reliable data
for heating and energy consumption.

Component 1 (CC of Nis – AF). The ERR calculated during preparation of the AF
was about 13 percent for the CCN. The calculation in Annex 3 shows an ERR of
about 24 percent, which can be explained due to important increases in fuel costs for
alternative fuels. The indicative investment cost for the thermal rehabilitation works
in the CCN was US$ 5.94 million, compared to a final investment cost of US$ 6.4
million. The cost overrun was minimal, due to improved feasibility studies, as well as
lessons learned from the original project, and increased experience in terms of
technologies and cost evaluation. Energy savings and the reductions in CO2, SO2, and
NOx emissions were greater than for the CCS, as not only was the heating plant
rehabilitated, but all of the distribution piping, heat substations, and building
envelopes were also retrofitted.

Component 2. The ERR of this component refers to the retrofitting works in public
buildings (schools, hospitals, and social care institutions). Annex 3 provides details of
the calculated gross ERR of 13 percent (with energy prices adjusted for inflation).
Assuming a growth rate of 3 percent per year for the energy cost, the ERR is 16
percent. The investment cost per m2 was higher in the AF. However, the increase in

                                            17
energy savings was higher than the increase in the investment, which substantially
increased the actual savings from 87kWh/m2 (original project) to 118 kWh/m2 in the
AF.

The calculated payback time of about seven years makes the energy efficiency
investments in public buildings attractive. The results of the economic and financial
analysis show that such projects can become fully sustainable. In addition to energy
savings, the project yielded additional benefits that increase the ERR even further, due
to: (i) environmental improvements associated with reductions in CO2, SO2, and NOx
emissions (see Annex 3); (ii) increased end-user comfort and awareness about energy
efficiency and its benefits; and (iii) improved air quality and working conditions of
end-users (both see Annex 5).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the discussion in sections 3.2 and 3.3, the overall outcome is rated as
Satisfactory. The PDO remained highly relevant for the country throughout imple-
mentation and continues to be relevant. The project achieved its PDO and contributed
to two sector-related TSS Goals (see Annex 2). In the light of the above economic and
financial calculations on efficiency and despite cost overruns, significant energy
savings were achieved, with good payback times and relatively high ERRs. The
project had not only economic, financial, and environmental impacts (as illustrated
above), but also a transformational impact by: (i) developing and testing buildings’
technical standards; and (ii) increasing awareness of the importance of energy
efficiency amongst end-users and other players, including local manufacturers and
contractors. In addition, project-related technical specifications and work contracts
triggered local demand for energy efficiency and certification and established energy
efficiency standards and measurements for control. Therefore, the project investments
and the contemporaneous development and reform of energy efficiency regulations
and policies (as noted in section 3.5) significantly contributed to establish the
foundation for a growing energy efficiency market in Serbia.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Social benefits. The retrofitting of public buildings, such as schools, hospitals, and
social buildings, provided social benefits in addition to the energy cost and emission
reductions. These benefits were measured and analyzed in social monitoring surveys
before and after the retrofitting of public buildings. They included improved working
conditions for school and hospital staff as well as patients and pupils, such as
comfortable indoor temperatures during the winter season. In addition, the
demonstration effect of these energy efficiency retrofitting works and the energy
efficiency outreach and communication activities (including learning days,
educational material, videos, regional round tables, etc.) resulted in increased end-user
awareness about the benefits of energy efficiency measures. For example, every
fourth respondent in the social monitoring surveys confirmed that s/he was inspired
by the energy efficiency investments in public buildings and was planning to
proactively undertake similar investments in her/his own home (see details of the
surveys’ results in Annex 5).



                                           18
Gender. Women were the main beneficiaries of the retrofitting works in the maternity
hospital (of the CCS). The social monitoring surveys before and after the retrofitting
works were conducted and their results presented in a gender-sensitive manner. The
survey findings revealed certain differences between male and female respondents in
their perceptions of thermal indoor comfort. Women were less satisfied with the
heating overall, more frequently experienced cold, and stated higher temperature
ranges as optimal for their work environment.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Energy efficiency policy development. The government has incorporated energy
efficiency as an important pillar of the sector’s strategic development. The Energy
Law adopted in 2004, revised in 2011, and amended in 2012 put in place incentives to
decrease energy consumption. Specifically, a robust legislative framework for energy
efficiency exists and includes:
 Law on Planning and Construction (2009) – bases the development and use of
    space on several principles, inter alia on energy efficiency;
 Rulebook for Energy Certification of Buildings (2011) – clarifies energy
    characteristics and the method of calculating thermal characteristics of buildings,
    and defines energy and energy efficiency requirements for new and existing
    buildings;
 Law on Efficient Use of Energy (2013) – plays a key role in developing an energy
    efficiency market as it provides regulations for the efficient use of energy and
    energy sources in the generation, transmission, distribution, and consumption of
    energy. This law: regulates the promotion of energy efficiency and sets standards
    for energy efficiency products and energy efficiency in the production,
    transmission; and distribution of electricity and thermal energy; and identifies
    measures in this area as well as other issues of importance regarding rights and
    obligations in relation to energy efficiency; and
 Law on Public Procurement (2013) – defines criteria for the most economically
    beneficial offers, including energy efficiency as one criteria, and several principles
    of protecting the environment and ensuring energy efficiency.

In 2005, a new Strategy of the Long-Term Energy Development of the Republic of
Serbia by 2015 was finalized. In addition, the first Serbia National Energy Efficiency
Action Plan (NEEAP) was agreed on in July 2010, setting the targets for domestic
energy consumption. The project was included in the NEEAP as one of the measures
helping the government to achieve its energy savings target.

Strengthening capacity in the public administration. Users’ control of heat
consumption empowered hospital and school administrators and municipalities with
information to understand the benefits of tracking and monitoring energy efficiency
consumption. Furthermore, the CCS and the CCN now have fully qualified staff
managing the CHPs who are also trained in energy efficiency. At the ministry level,
professional experience was gained in managing and implementing complex supply-
side energy efficiency projects, thus building ministries’ capacity to scale up
programs. In addition, the PSC established for the project contributed to strengthening
networks and better linking institutions. However, the dissolution of the SEEA, the
lack of a sustainable energy efficiency financing scheme, and uncertainties for the
transition arrangements for staff at the PIU all suggest a probability of significant loss


                                           19
of technical capacity built within the project, which may have a negative impact on
the prospective sustainability and replicability of the investments.

Energy efficiency market development. The project contributed to creating an
energy efficiency industry in Serbia. Market participants significantly benefited from
the project’s demonstration effect. Some examples are presented below:
 Energy efficiency is considered a new specialty, with newly trained and accredited
   thermal, mechanical, and electrical engineers and architects (more than 1,000
   engineers have already been licensed in the field of energy efficiency). During
   implementation, a professional pool of 22 trained energy auditors was created
   across the country. The accreditation strengthened the credibility of energy
   efficiency investment projects and reduced the risk of nonperforming projects.
 Construction firms improved their technical responsiveness and ability to
   implement large-scale energy efficiency works with good technical quality. More
   than 40 companies have already been certified in the field of energy efficiency.
   Between 2003 and 2013, the number of soft-coated glass processors increased from
   one company to 55.
 Local manufacturers increased their capacity for supplying materials and
   equipment thanks to strict procurement rules, quality controls, and constantly
   improved technical specifications for production and installment works within the
   project.
 Availability of energy efficiency technologies such as improved PVC frames,
   double and triple glazing, and improved insulation materials also increased. For
   instance, in 2003, three-chamber window profiles constituted 75 percent of sales;
   in 2013, no three-chamber profiles were sold, while five-chamber profiles
   constituted 75 percent of sales.

Communication and outreach activities could have been better exploited for
broader audiences compared to what was envisioned during the project design.
Communication activities were actively implemented in the original project. However,
during the AF and in particular the last years of the project, the feedback loop was
weakened and communication activities could have been better utilized to showcase
the success of the project and disseminate the project results more widely to foster
broader replication. Target audiences that were not reached included local
governments, publicly-owned service companies, suppliers of energy efficiency goods
and services, and commercial banks.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Noise reduction. The retrofitting works in public buildings, particularly in schools
and the maternity hospital of the CCS, significantly contributed to reduced noise
disturbance in these institutions. The social monitoring surveys of the AF phase
measured these unintended impacts and found a decrease of noise after works of
around 50 percent.

Increased supply market for the CCS and the CCN. Due to the increased heat-
generation capacities of the new CHPs, the CCS and the CCN now supply a larger
area and more customers than initially planned.




                                         20
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Social monitoring surveys. Social monitoring surveys were conducted in 31 selected
buildings before and after the retrofitting works to systematically measure the social
impact of project activities. The survey showed that all directly measured elements of
comfort as well as the quality of the indoor environment significantly improved in
schools, social care institutions, and health care facilities. A significant increase in the
level of satisfaction of end-users of around 130 percent was assessed due to improved
functionality of heating and lighting services. Due to retrofitting, noise disturbances
decreased by around 50 percent.

The awareness of energy efficiency measures and their associated benefits increased
by an average of 240 percent. End-users confirmed they were inspired by the energy
efficiency works implemented in the public buildings, and the application of energy
efficiency measures at home increased by 90 percent. Almost three out of four pupils
(72.5 percent) interviewed mentioned that they learned about energy savings,
renewable energy sources, and climate change. Almost unanimous satisfaction with
the results of the works and achieved benefits was recorded during in-depth
interviews with decision makers in public buildings and local self-governments, such
as school and hospital directors and managerial staff.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
The rating is based on a comprehensive view of the risks from the three components.
The achievements for the CCS and the CCN and the public buildings due to the
rehabilitation of their heating systems and improvements in their end-use energy
efficiency are sustainable. The functional and health environments of the CCS and the
CCN and the selected public buildings were retrofitted with improvements that will
last. With the recent closure of the SEEA, MEDEP took over the responsibilities
assigned to the agency. Given the large breath of the issues under the responsibility of
the Ministry, there is a risk that sustained attention is given to the EE agenda. This
risk is mitigated however, by the governments committed to scale up efforts in the
energy efficiency field, as demonstrated by its target to reduce the country’s energy
consumption by at least 9 percent by 2016. In addition, energy efficiency regulations
and laws were recently adopted, thus further strengthening the legal framework for
energy efficiency and supporting the development of this field. Finally, through its
demonstration effect, sustainable end-user demand for energy efficiency goods and
services was created (see section 3.5).

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank played a key role in the Serbia energy sector agenda and during project
preparation by guiding the MOME, the PIU, and the SEEA on fundamental issues
with respect to the project design – considering all major relevant aspects, such as
technical, environmental, social, financial, economic, as well as procurement and FM.
The World Bank effectively transferred and incorporated best practices from across
the region and on-the-ground implementation experience from other energy projects
in Serbia (e.g., energy sector pricing reform in a SAC). However, there were some
minor shortcomings in the M&E program, which contained indicators that required

                                            21
“nonimplementing” entities to collect data (mainly within the CCS). The project was
consistent with TSS and government priorities in the sector at the time and exceeded
the expected TSS milestones (realized energy savings, reduced emissions, improved
air quality). Although the project design was complex, a positive outcome was the
emphasis on the need for close project steering amongst the many relevant ministries
and institutions and for regular coordination with other donors to ensure
implementation of complementary activities.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The World Bank’s performance during supervision was Moderately Satisfactory. The
World Bank team focused on the project’s development impact and alerted the
borrower about issues found during project execution and encouraged prompt
corrective action. World Bank supervision took place regularly and provided
appropriate and well-targeted advice. Next steps and follow-up actions were regularly
agreed with the borrower, and included in Aide Memoires. However, high turnover of
Task Team Leaders (totaling five) over the lifetime of the project sometimes made it
difficult to ensure continuity in the policy dialogue and track progress on actions
agreed upon.

In general, the ISRs realistically rated the performance of the project – both in terms
of achievement of development objectives and project implementation and
management commented appropriately. However, it might have been useful to down-
rate the ISRs, particularly during the first phase of the project when disbursements
were slow due to the delayed contracts for works in the CCS (as mentioned in section
2.2) in order to flag these shortcomings for management and borrower’s attention.
The World Bank’s procurement and FM staff worked with the PIU staff to explain
rules and procedures to be applied and consistently performed FM supervision of the
project. The safeguard and fiduciary policies were well-managed and reported. The
FM was rated Satisfactory throughout project implementation. An environmental
specialist conducted Environmental Reviews and supervision to assess the quality of
the procedures for environmental safeguards compliance.

The World Bank team carried out one MTR in December 2008. Based on the
recommendations of the MTR, measures were taken to contain the costs of retrofitting
works and to support the government’s request for the AF to address the cost overruns
and delays in implementation. The project would have benefitted from an update of
the results framework at the MTR or at the restructuring due to the AF to better reflect
the new scope of the project (i.e., the CCN and additional social buildings). At the end
of the project, the World Bank is still engaged in dialogue with the Borrower to
ensure sustainability of the project (see section 2.5).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Based on the World Bank’s performance during the design phase and supervision - as
discussed above - the overall Bank performance was adequate to the tasks. However,
some shortcomings could have been better and earlier addressed during supervision to
expedite the successful implementation of the project.



                                          22
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Government ownership and commitment remained consistently strong. During the
course of the project, key pieces of the legal and regulatory framework needed to
support the project development objective and keep it relevant (see section 3.5) were
enacted. As discussed above, the institutional and implementation arrangements were
relatively complex given the nature of these cross-sectoral projects (covering energy,
health, education, social welfare issues) and coordination mechanisms required
important resources and efforts. In this regard, MEDEP was effective in coordinating
the inter-ministerial PSC and effectively supervised the PIU. Borrower counterpart
financing through the MOH and the City of Belgrade was made available to cover for
shortfalls in financing from central government. To address the issue of scarce staff
resources, a number of additional technical and administrative staff were hired by the
PIU in 2010. These additional resources successfully accelerated the overall project
implementation processes. Due to delays in the country’s Parliamentary approval, the
AF from IDA and IBRD became effective 17 months after the World Bank’s Board
approval, thus significantly affecting the initial project implementation plan.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The project implementation was mainly done and supported through a newly
established PIU as project implementing agency. The capacity of the implementing
agency in the field of energy efficiency in public buildings increased continuously
over the 10 years of project implementation. Highlights of the unit’s achievements
include: (i) technical improvements for project design and activities which became
well integrated into “standard” technical specifications; (ii) social monitoring
activities that evaluated progress in terms of users’ satisfaction, energy efficiency
awareness, and proper working conditions; (iii) well-organized and robust procedures
for implementation of large-scale projects (such as preparation with energy auditors,
engineering with consultants, implementation with contractors, and supervision and
monitoring).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The government showed its commitment to the project and the PIU performed well.
As a result of the explanations above, the borrower’s performance is rated
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
Four key lessons emerged from the project:

Lesson 1: Replication effect of energy efficiency investments in public buildings.
The project’s energy efficiency investments into essentially social public buildings
had a catalytic effect on local markets by demonstrating the exemplary role of the
government to the private sector and general public, while at the same time
stimulating nascent markets for EE goods and services. The success of this project
certainly underscores the relevance of this approach, as it has been replicated in most
of recent World Bank-financed energy efficiency projects in the region (Montenegro,
Kosovo, and Bosnia and Herzegovina). To maximize local and popular interest for

                                          23
follow-on energy efficiency measures and to foster broader replication, strong
emphasis and adequate resources should be made available to disseminate project
results widely. Efforts should be made to “market” energy efficiency by showcasing
the changes in end-users’ satisfaction of indoor comfort and awareness of energy
efficiency works, as well as the jobs and business opportunities created at the local
level by developing an market for energy efficient goods and services. Target
audiences may include local self-governments, publicly-owned utility companies,
suppliers of energy efficiency goods and services, and commercial banks.

Lesson 2. Pilot project for broader replication through local self-governments.
Realizing the large potential for energy savings in the buildings sector requires the
implementation of large-scale, sustainable energy efficiency programs. To help the
transition to these more complex undertakings, upfront consideration must be given to
a transition strategy for World Bank pilot projects supporting energy efficiency
investments through grants. One option is to foster replication by local self-
governments by increasing their interest in saving energy as these savings will feed
back into their own budgets. Options to foster local ownership in project design may
include: (i) basing the selection of potential beneficiary institutions on their interest,
commitment, and level of awareness of energy efficiency issues; (ii) requesting
financial participation through co-financing; (iii) directly involving municipalities in
the selection of public buildings; and (iv) implementing benefit-sharing schemes
between local self-governments and participating institutions to ensure that financial
savings as a result of increased energy efficiency are partially kept by beneficiaries.

Lesson 3: Improve technical and social monitoring and better utilize data.
Technical monitoring should be designed and implemented with adequate metering
tools to provide solid information that can inform the decision-making process during
implementation. In addition, technical monitoring could be improved by inducing the
private sector to take on some risks associated with project performance (e.g.,
introducing work contracts with construction firms that tie a portion of the final
payment to actual energy savings). Social monitoring has proven to be an effective
tool for capturing the impact of energy efficiency measures in terms of increased
comfort levels, awareness, and consumer satisfaction. Such information has proven to
be useful for improving the project design and dissemination strategy for greater
impact.

Lesson 4: Focus on strengthening government implementation capacities in
dedicated government agencies. During design and implementation supervision,
special attention should be given to ensuring that implementation arrangements are
fully integrated within the government administration to build capacity. One of the
key issues is to ensure the sustainability of new dedicated non-revenue earning and
budget-dependent agencies (such as energy efficiency agencies) by ensuring that their
organizational policies should not be too divergent from other budget entities.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
(b) Cofinanciers
n/a
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
n/a

                                           24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
                                       Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                             Percentage of
         Components                    Estimate            Estimate
                                                                              Appraisal
                                     (US$ millions)      (US$ millions)
Environmental improvement,
heating system renovation, and
energy efficiency improvement
                                            7.47                15.00           200%
at the Clinical Center Belgrade
(original and additional
financing)
Environmental improvement,
heating system renovation, and
energy efficiency improvement               5.94                 6.40           107%
at the Clinical Center Nis
(additional financing)
Energy Efficiency
Improvements in social service
buildings (schools & hospital)             32.78                26.41            80%
across Serbia (including original
and additional financing)
Technical Assistance (including
original project and additional             0.66                 1.38           209%
financing)
Incremental Operating Cost                  1.43                 2.20           154%
Unallocated                                 1.50                 0.00            0%
             Total Baseline Cost           49.78                51.39           103%
Price and Physical Contigencies             5.22
               Total Project Cost          55.00                51.39            93%


(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                      Type of                                    Percentage
       Source of Funds                              Estimate       Estimate
                                    Cofinancing                                 of Appraisal
                                                  (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
 Borrower                                             6.00           2.16           36%
 International Development
Association (IDA) and
International Bank for                                49.00          49.23         100%
Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD)




                                              25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Key Performance Indicators Outcome/ Results                                                                                 Comments, Constraints/ Hindrances
TSS Goal 1: Reduce macroeconomic imbalances in energy
Adequate increase in power       Power tariffs gradually increased (at project start: ca. 2 €cent/kWh for electricity, at   The tariffs do not yet cover cost of
tariffs to cover cost of supply. project end: 5.2 €cent/kWh3).                                                              supply.

TSS Goal 2: Stimulating near-term growth and creating a basis for sustainable supply response
New energy policy and new      Fully achieved – new energy policy and new energy law was adopted (see section 3.5).
energy law adopted.

PDO Indicators

Output Indicators             Baseline               Target Value            Actual                 Comments & explanation, Constraints/ Hindrances
                              05/30/2003             04/30/2013
PDO Indicator 1: Improvement in air quality through reduction in emission of local air pollutants (sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and particulates) and
greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide) produced by the boilers used by the CCS & CCN for meeting their heating demand.
Reduction in SO2              CCS 780 tpa +          CCS 20 tpa +            0 tpa emission         Achieved -No actual SO2 emission.
                              CCN 220 tpa            CCN 0 tpa
Reduction in NOx              CCS 100 tpa +          CCS 40 tpa +            50 tpa emission        Achieved -Significantly reduced.
                              CCN 11 tpa             CCN 8 tpa
Reduction in Ash              CCS 130 tpa +          0 tpa                   0 tpa emission         Achieved -No actual ash, soot and other solid particles
                              CCN 53 tpa                                                            emission.
Reduction in CO2              CCS 48,000 tpa +       CCS 20,000 tpa +        25,000 tpa             Achieved -Significantly reduced by more than 50%.
                              CCN 9,000 tpa          CCN 6,000 tpa           emission
PDO Indicator 2: Quantified energy savings of the retrofitted public buildings, and cost of heat per square meter.
Average annual energy         373 kWh/m2             207 kWh/m2              125 kWh/m2             Achieved -Actual figures are averages from measured
consumption in schools                                                                              values. Note: Not all data from all buildings were considered
                                                                                                    as consumption-based billing for public buildings is still not



3
    Energy Agency Annual Report, Republic of Serbia, 2011.




                                                                                        26
                                                                                                  the norm in Serbia (they are billed based on their floor area).
Average annual energy             395 kWh/m2         231 kWh/m2              185 kWh/m2           Achieved -Actual figures are averages from measured
consumption in hospitals                                                                          values.
Output Indicators                 Baseline           Target Value            Actual               Comments & explanation, Constraints/ Hindrances
                                  05/30/2003         04/30/2013
Average annual energy             N.A                N.A.                    175 kWh/m2           Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Policy was not
consumption in social                                                                             involved from the beginning in the project implementation.
buildings
Cost of heat per sq. meter in                                                                     Cost of heat significantly depends on type of fuel and ranges
public buildings                                                                                  from €0.5 to €1.0.
Financial savings registered by                                                                   Annual financial savings of nearly €1 million have been
the MOH and the CCS by                                                                            registered by the Health Insurance Fund, which transfers
using the new heat supply                                                                         money to hospitals for purchase of fuel.
system.
Financial savings registered by                                                                   In first heating season, the difference between actual energy
the MOH and the CCN by                                                                            bill and bill for last season was registered by CCN at the
using the new heat supply                                                                         level of nearly €0.5 million.
system.



Output Indicators             Before retrofitting       After retrofitting        Comments & explanation, Constraints/ Hindrances
PDO Indicator 3: Increased end-user satisfaction measured through perception surveys including perspectives in improved functionality & health
environment.
Improved indoor comfort &     Schools: 9.7% of          Schools: 35.3%            The project contributed to an increase in the heating quality in public
satisfaction re: heating      respondents reported to   respondents reported to   institutions.
                              be satisfied with heating be satisfied with heating
                              Hospitals: 18.0%          Hospitals: 59.2%
                              Social buildings: 44.4%   Social buildings: 70.8%
Reduced noise disturbance     School teachers: 50.7%    School teachers: 9.7%     Glazing replacement has significantly reduced the noise disturbances from
                              reported noise            reported noise            outside.
                              disturbances              disturbances
                              Pupils: 57.90%            Pupils: 21.50%
Improved indoor comfort &     School teachers: 19%      School teachers: 55.5%    New windows, bright colors, and new painting contributed to improvement
satisfaction re: lighting     respondents reported      respondents reported      of indoor lighting quality.



                                                                                27
                                being satisfied with      being satisfied with
                                lighting                  lighting
                                Pupils: 17.4%             Pupils: 23%
                                Hospitals: 16.90%         Hospitals: 45.30%


Intermediate Outcome Indicators

Output Indicators    Baseline                      Target Value             Actual                   Comments & explanation
                     05/30/2003                    04/30/2013                                        Constraints/ Hindrances
Intermediate Outcome Indicator 1: Improved heat generation efficiency and reduction in heat losses in the rehabilitated network of the CCS & CCN.
CCS heat generation 6 coal-fired &                 New gas-fired boilers Total of 50 MW
efficiency           13 oil-fired boilers          & CHP                    boilers capacity and
improvements                                                                2+2 MW CHP
                     Less than 40% heat generation Not less than 92%        Measured 93%
                     efficiency                    efficiency
CCN heat generation 50% boiler efficiency          Not less than 94%        Measured 95%
efficiency
improvements
Intermediate Outcome Indicator 2: Number of buildings (schools, hospitals, social buildings) retrofitted with energy efficiency equipment.
Number of schools    0                             Initial project (SEEP    SEEP I: 15               SEEP II & I: In total, 10 schools with internal lighting
                                                   I): 13                   SEEP II: 21              upgrade.
                                                   AF (SEEP II): 40                                  SEEP II: Additionally contracted erection of one new gas
                                                                                                     fired boiler house and one replacement of coal-fired
                                                                                                     boilers with district heating substation for two schools
                                                                                                     retrofitted within SEEP I.
Number of hospitals 0                              SEEP I: 12               SEEP I: 11               SEEP I: Internal lighting upgrade in three hospitals
(including CCS –                                   SEEP II: 36              SEEP II: 30              contracted within other energy retrofit works.
maternity hospital &
CCN)
Number of social     0                             SEEP II: 10              SEEP II: 5               Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Policy was not
buildings                                                                                            involved in SEEP I implementation and for SEEP II its
                                                                                                     cooperation for the building selection was lacking.
Number of energy     0                             70-80                    129                      Energy audits performed in 64 schools, 48 hospitals and
audits                                                                                               17 social care buildings.



                                                                                 28
Output Indicators             Before retrofitting        After retrofitting             Comments & explanation, Constraints/ Hindrances
Intermediate Outcome Indicator 3: Level of awareness on energy efficiency measures and benefits increased.
Communication plan &          Communication plan            Outreach program carried     Outreach program encompassed tailored communication tools,
outreach program                                            out                          designed for each target group.
Number of local communities   20                            20                           This number has been targeted to be comparable with social survey
consulted                                                                                on indoor comfort, satisfaction, and awareness.
Awareness of surveyed end-users on energy efficiency related issues.
                              Before retrofitting           After retrofitting           Comments & explanation
                                                                                         Constraints/ Hindrances
Awareness of the works        Schools & Hospitals: 14.6% Schools & Hospitals: 45.1%      This indicator has been summarized for schools and hospitals, by
undertaken by the project     Households: 20%               Households: 49%              all subsample target groups, i.e., teachers & pupils, medical staff &
                                                                                         technicians & patients.
Awareness of benefits of      Households: 11%               Households: 45%
implementing energy
efficiency measures
Application of energy         Households: 10%               Households: 19%              The low household budget was mentioned as main constraint for
efficiency measures in own                                                               bigger investments than energy efficient light bulbs.
household
Awareness on importance of    Teachers: 19.76%              Teachers: 34.84%             Respondents also found that the media reporting on energy
education for energy          Pupils: 61.26%                Pupils: 68.82%               efficiency has improved and that this topic is better represented in
efficiency, renewable energy                                                             education and school curricula.
and climate change




                                                                                 29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Component 1. CCS of Belgrade (original project)
The indicative investment cost of the thermal rehabilitation of CCS Belgrade (in the
original PAD) was US$ 7.47 million. The final real investment cost was US$ 15 million.
The cost overrun was significant and has already been explained as a result of several
interfering components (see section 2.2).

The ERR calculated at appraisal was 32.4 percent. After project completion and
according to this simulation, the ERR at the end of the project was 33 percent (see table
below).

One of the key determinants of the project’s profitability was the fuel substitution. The
main fuel used in the boilers was low-quality fuel oil (mazut), and in a much smaller
proportion, light fuel oil (LFO - very expensive) and coal (much less expensive). To
simplify the calculation, the price of mazut was used, implying that the average between
LFO and coal is closer to the mazut price. Mazut prices increased significantly between
2003 and 2013, from US$ 0.0172 to US$ 0.069 per KWh. For the calculation, an increase
of 1 percent per year was applied to the mazut cost after year 5 (2013). By the end of the
project, the main fuel used in the CCS was natural gas. The price of gas also increased,
from US$ 0.143 in 2003 to US$ 0.0437 per KWh in 2013. For the calculation, an increase
of 2.5 percent per year was applied for the gas price after year 5. Since the price of gas is
still much lower than that of mazut, the ERR remains high (34 percent), despite the huge
increase in the investment cost.

Together with enhancing energy efficiency, reducing air pollution was the main objective
of this project. The table below provides the emissions of CO2, SO2, and NOx before and
after the project. C02 emission were reduced 64-70 percent (depending on the real
consumption after renovation); SO2 emissions were reduced 100 percent (there is no SO2
in natural gas); and NOx emissions were reduced about 76 percent.

CC of Nis (AF)
The economic analysis for the CCN includes both Components 1 and 2, i.e.:
1. The full thermal rehabilitation of the CCN including: (i) the new gas boiler plant
   replacing all other boilers (coal, LFO) and district heating supply; (ii) the complete
   replacement of the heat distribution piping; (iii) the complete replacement and
   creation of new heat substations; and (iv) internal rehabilitation of some of the indoor
   heating systems, in particular radiators and networks previously operated with steam.
2. The energy retrofitting of most of the buildings within Component 2.

The indicative investment cost of the thermal rehabilitation of the CCN (in the Project
Paper for AF) was US$ 5.94 million. Final investment cost was US$ 6.398 million for the
heating systems and US$ 2.768 million for the building retrofitting, for a total of
US$ 8.672 million. The overrun in cost was quite reduced, and much smaller than for the
CCS of Belgrade. This can be explained by: (i) more accurate costing information from
pre-feasibility and feasibility studies; (ii) more experience in terms of technologies and
                                              31
evaluation of cost; and (iii) better experience with the methodology for procurement and
investment cost negotiation.

The ERR calculated during project preparation was 13.3 percent, while the ERR of the
finalized project using actual data was 23.9 percent. The consumption of energy before
project implementation was provided in the 2007 feasibility study, based on real
consumption of coal and other fuels. For the purpose of economic analysis, actual heat
consumption reported by the CCS from October15 2012 to April 30 2013 was used. This
period of time represents 75% of the whole yearly consumption which is then
15,651MWh while the calculation of the feasibility study resulted in 15,065 MWh. The
heating season 2012/2013 being colder than usual, the amount of 15,065 MWh was kept.
The accurate monitoring (and management) system is now in place and should give more
accurate data in the future.

As in the case for CCS, energy prices increased significantly over time. This explains
why the benefits are considerably higher in the new economic analysis compared to that
of 2007.

The energy savings and the reductions in CO2, SO2, and NOx emissions were greater than
those achieved in the CCS. This was expected because in the CCN, not only was the
heating plant totally rehabilitated, but all of the distribution piping, heat substations, and
building envelopes were also retrofitted. Finally, as in the case of the CCS, the
improvements in air quality and working conditions for the CCN’s end-users represent a
concrete and tangible result.

Component 2. Energy Efficiency in Schools and Hospitals
In the original project, 26 buildings were retrofitted (15 schools and 11 hospitals). In
addition, the lighting and some electrical networks were renovated in 14 schools. In the
AF, 56 buildings were retrofitted (21 schools, 30 hospitals, and 5 social buildings). The
investment per m² was higher in the AF. However, the increase in energy savings was
higher than the increase in investment. Therefore, the payback time was reduced and the
kWh saved per invested US$ was substantially increased.
                                                                                                                  kWh
                             Social                                       Building   Savings Payback Invest.     saved/
          Hospitals Schools buildings Savings    Savings     Investment    area       per m²   time  per m²    invested $
          (number)   (number) (number) (kWh)      (US$)         (US$)       (m²)     (kWh/m²)   (y)   (US$/m²) (kWh/US$)


 SEEP 1      11        15        0    13,000,000 1,018,680   8,489,000    150,000      87       8.3     57        1.53


 SEEP 2      30        21        5    29,496,000 2,311,307 15,155,822     250,000      118      6.6     61        1.95


 TOTAL       41        36        5    42,496,000 3,329,987 23,644,822     400,000      106      7.1     59        1.80




                                                           32
The ERR of this component of energy efficiency in buildings is presented below. The
first table finds a gross ERR of 13 percent, in which energy prices are constant in real
terms; i.e., they are adjusted for inflation. The second table assumes a growth rate of 3
percent per year for the energy cost, which is the difference of the increase between the
prices of mazut and gas. Between 2008 and 2013, this difference was higher than 7
percent per year. In this case, the ERR becomes 16 percent.


 Total savings/net benefits –assuming energy prices constant in real terms
                                                                          ….
                                 Year 1      Year 2       Year 3                  Year 18     Year 19     Year 20
 Investment       23,644,822
                                                                         ....
 Savings         -23,644,822   3,329,987    3,329,987    3,329,987                3,329,987   3,329,987   3,329,987
 ERR (20y)              13%




 Total savings/net benefits –assuming energy price increase by 3% in real terms
                                                                          ….
                                 Year 1      Year 2       Year 3                  Year 18     Year 19     Year 20
 Investment       23,644,822
                                                                         ....
 Savings         -23,644,822   3,329,987    3,429,886    3,532,783                5,503,960   5,669,079   5,839,152
 ERR (20y)              16%




                                                             33
Clinical Center of Serbia, in Belgrade - Estimated cost and savings based on the results provided by the CCS

                             2009      2010       2011      2012       2013       2014       2015       2016     2017      2018    2019         2020          2021     2022     2023     2024     2025    2026    2027    2028

Total heat energy cost without project: Mazout, coal, light fuel, electricity - Based on the raw energy before including energy price increase

Fuel cost          179,932    7,219       8,229    9,381    10,695 12,475 12,600             12,726 12,853 12,982 13,111 13,242                 13,375        13,509   13,644   13,780   13,918 14,057 14,198 14,340 14,483

Electricity cost    19,000      760         760     760         760       760       760           760     760        760     760          760     760           760      760      760      760      760     760     760     760
Operation & maintenance         398         410     422         434       445       457           469     481        493     505          518     531           544      557      571      586      600     615     631     647
Total cost without
project                       8,377       9,399   10,563    11,889 13,680 13,817             13,955 14,094 14,234 14,376 14,520                 14,666        14,813   14,961   15,112   15,264 15,418 15,573 15,730 15,890
Total heat energy cost with CHP project - Based on the new consumption provided by the CCS
Fuel cost, gas     107,959    3,375       3,279    3,680       3,539    4,635      5,068      5,541     6,058    6,624     7,242      7,918      8,657         9,465   10,349   11,315   12,371 13,525 14,788 16,168 17,677
Maintenance                     274         274     274         274       274       274           274     274        274     274          274     274           274      274      274      274      274     274     274     274
Electricity cost     6,000      156         159     162         166       169       172           176     179        183     186          190     194           198      202      206      210      214     218     223     227
Total cost with project       3,805       3,712    4,116       3,979    5,078      5,514      5,991     6,512    7,081     7,703      8,382      9,125         9,937   10,825   11,794   12,855 14,014 15,280 16,665 18,179
Total savings/net benefits
Investment          15,000   18,750 (actualized investment cost)
Net benefits       -18,750    4,571       5,687    6,447       7,910    8,602      8,302      7,964     7,582    7,154     6,674      6,138      5,540         4,875    4,137    3,317    2,409   1,404     293    -935 -2,289
ERR (20y)          33%

Clinical Center of Serbia – Estimated emissions
                             Fuel
                             Consumption     Content C02               Total CO2         Content SO2       Total SO2         Content NOX         Total NOX
  Fuels                      (Ton/y)              (Kg/kg)              (Ton/y)           (g/kg)            (Ton/y)           (g/kg)               (Ton)
 Mazut                           11,500                  3.3            37,950                133               1,532              16.8                193
 Light oil                          645                  2.6             1,677                10                 6                    7                  5
 Coal                               7,100                2.3            16,330                30                216                15                  108
 Total Emissions before the project                                      55,957                                 1,754                                  306


 Gas                         70,000 (MWh)         0.24                   16800                    0              0                 0.81                  57
 Total Emissions after the project                                       16800                                   0                                       57


 Total Emission Savings                                                  39,157                                 1,754                                  249




                                                                                                                 34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
             Names                               Title                Unit
Lending
Mohinder Gulati                  Task Team Leader                    ECSEG
 Gailius J. Draugelis            Lead Energy Specialist              EASCS
 Pekka Kalevi Salminen           Sr. Energy Specialist               ECSEG
Miroslav Ruzica                  Social Scientist
Nirmala Saraswat                 Environment Engineer
 Devesh Chandra Mishra           Consultant                          ECSOQ
 Michael Gascoyne                Sr. Resource Management Officer     WBICA
 Miroslav Frick                  Operations Officer                  ECSEG
 Marc Bellanger                  Consultant                          ECSEG
 Juderica Zilla Josephine Dias   Program Assistant                   ECSEG
 Vesna Kostic                    Sr. Communications Officer          ECCYU
Gennady Pilch                    Legal Counsel                       LEGOP
Joseph Paul Formoso              Disbursement                        CTRLA

Supervision/ICR
 Marc Bellanger                  Consultant                          ECSEG
 Aleksandar Crnomarkovic         Sr. Financial Management Speciast   ECSO3
 Juderica Zilla Josephine Dias   Program Assistant                   ECSEG
 Gailius J. Draugelis            Lead Energy Specialist              EASCS
 Miroslav Frick                  Operations Officer                  ECSEG
 Michael Gascoyne                Sr. Resource Management Officer     WBICA
 Nikola Ille                     Sr. Environmental Specialist        ECSEN
 Plamen Stoyanov Kirov           Sr. Procurement Specialist          LCSPT
 Vesna Kostic                    Sr. Communications Officer          ECCYU
 Peggy Janice Masterson          Operations Officer                  ECSEG
 Devesh Chandra Mishra           Consultant                          ECSOQ
 Pekka Kalevi Salminen           Sr. Energy Specialist               ECSEG
 Ashok Sarkar                    Sr. Energy Specialist               SEGEN
 Helen Z. Shahriari              Sr. Social Scientist                AFTCS
Salvador Rivera                  Lead Energy Specialist              ECSEG
Claudia Vasquez Suarez           Young Professional                  ECSEG
Sandra Schlossar                 Social Development Specialist       ECSSO
Jose Martinez                    Sr. Procurement Specialist          ECSO2
Milan Popovic                    Operations Officer                  ECCYU
Surekha Jaddo                    Operations Analyst                  ECSEG
Bjorn Hamso                      Program Manager                     ECCYU
Varadarajan Atur                 Lead Evaluation Officer              IEGPS
Mohinder Gulati                  Task Team Leader                    ECSEG

                                                35
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     US$ Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                                59.86
  FY03                                                               159.47
  FY04                                      45.2                     194.29
                          Total:                                     413.62
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                       4.2                      35.44
  FY05                                      22.2                     109.61
  FY06                                      25.2                      78.57
  FY07                                      30                       110.10
  FY08                                      28.5                     103.39
  FY09                                      25.5                      85.60
  FY10                                      34.5                      84.75
  FY11                                      33.3                      95.93
 FY12                                        7                        61.22
 FY13                                       15.4                     110.80
                          Total:                                     875.41




                                       36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

During the course of the project (initial project and AF), regular social monitoring
surveys were conducted. In total, 7,545 end-users (such as pupils, teachers, administrative
and technical staff, patients, and medical staff) were interviewed in more than 30
institutions and households before and after the retrofitting works. The survey
methodology utilized quantitative (survey questionnaires for research in the institutions
and in households with family members of the institutions’ users) and qualitative (in-
depth interviews with decision makers in relevant institutions and local self-governments)
approaches to systematically measure the social impact of project activities. In particular,
the survey focused on the following parameters:
 Level of indoor comfort and end-users’ satisfaction with heating, acoustics, and
    lighting;
 Level of awareness of energy efficiency works, their benefits, and their importance in
    regard to education; and
 Changes in behavioral patterns with respect to application of energy efficiency
    measures at home.

The following table illustrates that all directly measured elements of comfort as well as
the overall assessment of indoor environment quality and energy efficiency awareness
significantly improved amongst end-users of public buildings (schools, social care
institutions,4 and health care facilities). A significant increase (around 130 percent) in the
level of satisfaction of end-users was assessed. Due to the retrofitting works, disturbances
due to noise decreased by around 50 percent. Awareness of the energy efficiency works
and the general benefits of energy efficiency increased by an average of 240 percent.
End-users confirmed that they were inspired by the energy efficiency works implemented
in public buildings, such that the application of energy efficiency measures at home
increased by 90 percent. Almost three out of four pupils (72.5 percent) interviewed
mentioned that they learned about energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, and
climate change.




4
    One social care institution was in the sample for the surveys.


                                                              37
                           Before (in %)                              After (in %)
                 Schools      Hospitals    Social        Schools          Hospitals   Social
Satisfaction
with heating     10              18         44       35                        59      71
                                                                                               Satisfaction
                                                                                               increased by
        total    24                                  55                                        129%
Noise
disturbance      51     58       41                  10          22            41
                                                                                               Disturbance
                                                                                               decreased by
         total   50                                  24                                        48%
Satisfaction
with lighting    19     17       17                  56          23            45
                                                                                               Satisfaction
                                                                                               increased by
        total    18                                  41                                        132%
                           Before (in %)                              After (in %)
                                                                      Household
                  S&H         Households             S&H                   s
Awareness
of EE works      15                20               45                    49
                                                                                               Awareness
                                                                                               increased by
       total     17                                 47                                         172%
Awareness
of EE
measures/
EE benefits                        11                                     45
                                                                                               Awareness
                                                                                               increased by
         total   11                                 45                                         309%
Application
of EE at
home                               10                                     19
                                                                                               Application
                                                                                               increased by
        total    10                                 19                                         90%
Awareness
of
importance
of EE
education        20     61                          35      69
                                                                                               Awareness
                                                                                               increased by
        total    41                                 52                                         28%



All end-users of the institutions clearly recognized the project’s contribution to increased
indoor comfort. More than two-thirds of the respondents were either “very familiar” or
“partially familiar” with the activities undertaken by the project. Respondents favorably
assessed the improvement of all dimensions of indoor comfort as a result of the works.
Survey respondents also highly valued the reduction of draft and mentioned it as the most
significant achievement (ranked first among all users in health care institutions and
pupils), followed by the improvement in heating (ranked first by users in schools).
Heating quality in after-surveys was much more favorably assessed than in baseline
                                                    38
surveys and was assessed to be “…of excellent quality” (44 percent of respondents) or
“…of good quality, but it might be warmer” (39 percent). In addition, almost unanimous
satisfaction with the results of the works and achieved benefits was recorded during in-
depth interviews with decision makers.




                                          39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

An ICR workshop was held on October 25 at the Zira Hotel in Belgrade to share the
results from SEEP with various stakeholders and solicit comments on the World Bank
team’s options for scaling-up investments for energy efficiency in the public building
sector.

About 40 people, mostly municipal representatives, were in attendance. Participants
highlighted tangible results and important benefits from the implementation of the
Serbian energy efficiency project in their municipalities.

Specific benefits included improved comfort and health of final beneficiaries, reductions
in energy expenditures, and creation of local jobs.

Also, a strong consensus among local authorities emerged on the need for the
Government to demonstrate its commitment to foster the development of sustainable EE
investments that would support planed local and private-sector initiatives.




                                           40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                Republic of Serbia
                         Ministry of Finance and Economy

     Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection
                           Ministry of Health
     Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development
         Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Protection




             Serbia Energy Efficiency Project - SEEP
               (IDA 3870 YF, IDA 3870-1 YF & IBRD 7466 YF)


                       BORROWER’S
            Implementation Completion Report - ICR




                                         July 2013
Project Arrangements
         Republic of Serbia has agreed with the World Bank, and based on the Bank’s assistance
program for 2003-2004, on support to stimulating near-term growth and creating a basis for
sustainable supply response. The energy sector was among the main topics at the time as the
Government of Serbia was committed to an energy price reform strategy and to its program to
strengthen public expenditure management.
        The commitment of the Government to energy reforms, and energy efficiency in
particular, was very strong at the time as well, partially because of growing concern for the
impact of price increase to the population and partially because inefficient use of energy was a


                                              41
major concern in Serbia energy sector. Today still, policy formulation clearly states the adoption
of a government program to improve energy efficiency as an explicit objective.
         Pursuant to that objective, the Government had entered in preparation of a Serbia Energy
Efficiency Project – SEEP seeking financial support from the Bank. First IDA Credit was agreed
in September 2004 to help implement an energy efficiency program in selected public buildings
and demonstrate to the municipal and government officials and local communities the benefits of
investment in energy efficiency measures. Additional financing was agreed in September 2008
consisting of blend of IDA Credit and IBRD Loan.
         It was clear from the beginning that environmental issues are inherent to the energy
efficiency measures implementation for less energy spent less emission of air pollutants and
greenhouse gases. That was an important associated objective of the project.
         Social issues were not less expected to be tackled as it was perceived that improvements
in indoor air quality, indoor temperature and comfort in general will lead to increased end-user
satisfaction and better learning and living conditions for pupils, patients and employees.
         The First Phase – P075434
         On September 8, 2004 a financing agreement was signed between the Republic of Serbia
and the World Bank (International Development Association) towards the cost of Serbia energy
efficiency Project (SEEP). Original project size was USD 21 million with USD 4 million
contributions by the Serbian budget.
         The Government of Serbia made credit proceeds available to the Ministry of Health and
Ministry of Education. Overall coordination was carried out by the Ministry of Energy, while
Energy Efficiency Agency of the Republic of Serbia (SEEA) was in the capacity of the
implementation body.
         The Second Phase – P090492 (Additional Financing)
         On September 10, 2008 agreements were signed for additional financing of the Project to
the size of USD 28 million (IDA Financial Agreement on USD 10 million and IBRD Loan
Agreement on USD 18 million) with USD 2 million contribution by Serbian budget.
         The Government of Serbia again made those proceeds of the credit/loan available to the
Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education, plus the Ministry of Social Policy was included.
         Overall coordination and implementation arrangements remained the same.

Project Objectives Achievements
         Component A – Clinical Centers in Belgrade (CCS) and Nis (CCN)
         The rehabilitation of energy supply system in CCS and CCN resulted with significant
reduction of air pollutants emission in the environment, mainly due to: (i) the change from
harmful fuels as coal, heavy fuel oil (mazut) and light fuel oil to environmentally friendly natural
gas; and (ii) centralized production of energy instead of numerous decentralized heat generation
sources.
         Improvement of old coal fired boiler plants efficiency from less than 50% to more than
90% of the modern gas fired boiler facilities additionally reduced greenhouse gases emissions of
CO2 and NOx and totally eliminates emission of to human health hazardous SO2, CO and solid
particulates as ash and soot.
         This vast energy efficiency and environmental undertake has been envisaged by Ministry
of Health as one of the greatest achievement in health sector in the last several years.
         Moreover, in the CCN all the clinics were energy retrofitted thus reducing heat demand
which additionally contributed to optimizing heat supply capacity and fuel consumption, and
subsequent emissions of combustion products in atmosphere. Through a modern fully automatic
central control system all emissions obliged by the law to be monitored are now registered in real-
time manner.
         Component B – Public Buildings
                                                42
         Implementation of component B in the 1st Project Phase provided a sufficiently wide
range of good practice examples and lessons learned in all areas of project activities thus
establishing decent quality ground for the continuation of the Project into the 2nd Phase for
improved implementation of already tested measures, methods and technologies and for
corrections to be applied where needed.
         Therefore, savings verified through actual measurements have been at average of 40% in
the 1st Project Phase and increased up to average of 50% in the 2nd Phase, while CO2 reduction
calculated on measured energy consumption increased from approximately 41 % to 52%
respectively.
         By retrofitting 36 school buildings, 41 hospital buildings (including Maternity hospital in
CCS and 19 clinics within CCN compound) and 5 social care institutions (in total 82 single
buildings) across Serbia, and in more than 30 municipalities, project clearly demonstrate huge
energy saving potential stored in public building sector, displaying at the same time that
application of modern technologies, materials, equipment and systems, with the highest possible
on the market quality implementation and manufacturers/producers warranties, lead to significant
financial savings.
         Although planed in the Serbian budget for 2013 on health and education allocations,
contribution of USD 2 million has not been realized until April 30, 2013, the project closing date.
         Component C – Technical Assistance
         Technical assistance to the Ministries in charge of Energy, Health, Education and Social
Affairs, and to in meantime abolished Serbian Energy Efficiency Agency, has been established in
a way to help them in capacity building, developing methodologies for energy audits and
investment proposals, public outreach/communications and monitoring and evaluation, and
training of municipal and government officials in evaluating capital expenditure decisions on
energy efficiency investments.
         Individual consultants with expertise in project management, heat energy production and
distribution, building energy efficiency retrofit, monitoring and evaluation, and communications
performed their duties to the highest professional standard and carried out general preparation of
the project activities and supervision of outsourced consultancies’ performance.
         Therefore, Design and Supervision, and Social Monitoring consulting companies have
been selected and accordingly have conducted and completed activities in compliance to the
highest professional standards setting up Monitoring and Evaluation System and carrying out
activities with overall deliverables submitted according to designated delivery schedule.
         Communication plan and related activities’ implementation schedule has been completed
successfully. Outreach and visibility of the Project, its benefit and demonstration effect has been
accomplished at the given possible level. However, sustainability of the project results and energy
savings achieved rest with end-users maintenance behavior and incentives by line ministries and
municipalities.
         Preliminary and detailed energy audits have been conducted according to procedure
proposed and prepared by PIU staff and WB technical consultants, and found out to be very
practical. A pool of 22 trained auditors has been established in all the biggest Serbian cities
(Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and Kraljevo regional energy efficiency centers within
local universities). This was very helpful and operational when more than 120 preliminary energy
audits have had to be performed across the Serbia for the purpose of drafting final list of
buildings to be included into the project.
         Finally, Ministry of Energy through selected PIU teams of individual experts, and in the
capacity of the coordination and implementation agency of the Project, proved its ability to
manage projects of this scale and accordingly built its own capacities for further activities and
forthcoming scale-up programs. The Project Steering Committee under the chairmanship of the
Ministry of Energy, and assisted by PIU staff, has overseen strictly all the project activities and
                                                43
made necessary decisions in a timely manner thus supporting smooth project implementation.
Although this body was consisted out of nine members from six different line ministries and two
other agencies, a quorum of five present members was rarely in question thus enabling legitimate
decisions to be made.

Lessons Learned
         Implementation of such a project needs thorough dedication of all the stakeholders to the
process of design and implementation, strict following of operational procedures and outstanding
professional performance both the implementing staff and government administration officials.
         It is off course understood that without the World Bank’s strong administrative and
technical support, overseeing of procurement and financial actions, and follow-up of overall
project progress this kind of operations are almost impossible to be accomplished.
         Therefore, experiences earned during this project implementation may be helpful in the
future development of similar projects aiming at higher sustainability and effectiveness of
operations which should enable Serbia to launch its own program in building stock and which
than could be implemented following domestic legal framework and available human and
institutional resources.
         Project was designed for public sector buildings where fuel expenses are covered by
government or municipal budgets. But during implementation there have been noticed huge
interest by citizens and municipalities to include as well residential buildings in the program.
Some municipalities have already prepared projects in that respect and are now looking for
technical assistance and favorable financial arrangements to implement them.
         Decision making process by the Borrower and clearance by the Bank in some cases took
longer period of time than initially planned generally because of deviations form agreed
schedules and set criteria. Therefore better planning and anticipation of possible issues have to be
invested by all stakeholders involved. Any additional action that has not been foreseen at the
beginning causes unnecessary delay in implementation and often is accompanied with additional
costs.
         Quite often, there was a need for financial and technical participation of end-users in
preparatory works, preceding energy retrofiting works. In order for this to happen, future
programs would have to insist on end-users’ participation in percent not less than 15-30% of
envisaged investment, thus obtaining commitment for works to be done properly.
         Selection of potential beneficiaries for some future programs should be based purely on
their interest and commitment and level of awareness on the energy efficiency issues to enhance
prospects for success and sustainable behavior. Also, some scheme of investment repayment
should be introduced to obtain ownership of the investment by the users thus keeping them
involved in whole process.
         Quality of the works should not be compromised whatsoever, for only this guaranteeing
maximization of energy savings. The newest technologies available on the market with the
longest functionality and durability warranty periods should be procured together with qualified
trained and certified workforce.
         Highly competitive and professional staff engaged through implementation units, and
skilled and competitively selected experienced consultancy companies guaranteed timely and
quality performance of implementation actions and are essential for any successful operation.
         Standard Bank’s procurement procedures and biding documents helped a lot in effective
contracting of the works and services and together with professionally oriented PIU staff made
implementation of the project accurate and smooth as much as possible.
         Besides that, detailed technical specifications and precise employer’s requirements
developed and set within the bidding documents by the technical consultants, and supported and

                                                44
cleared by the Bank, contributed substantially to the timely completion of the works with no or
very small costs overruns.
         We have to say that envisaged contribution by Serbian budget has not happened by the
Project’s Closing Date April 30, 2013, in spite of the fact that we prepared final designs and
bidding documents for two biomass boiler houses in mid of 2012, together with valid
construction permits and other necessary administrative approvals, and that timely provisions in
sufficient amounts were allocated in the 2013 budget appropriations (at Ministry of Health RSD
130 millions for Surdulica hospital boiler house, and at Ministry of Education RSD 80 millions
for Priboj school boiler house). It shows that dedicated program financing has far better chance
for success than budget capture financing which is subject to different and quite often unexpected
changes.
         Although communications of project results has accessed satisfactory in terms of
compliance what was planned, there is need to disseminate those results more broadly especially
to public-owned service companies, suppliers of EE goods and services, and commercial banks.

Conclusions and Prospects for Continuation
         The project was well designed and implemented at a very appropriate time for improving
energy efficiency is one of key issues of the Government energy policy. Successful
implementation of the project has helped the country a lot in creating respective targets and
financial estimates of a national energy efficiency action plan (NEEAP).
         It has to be mentioned that tremendous support of WB energy and procurement team in
charge of this project implementation helped Serbia very much in successful accomplishment of
project objectives gaining at the same time precious experiences for further operations in energy
efficiency field.
         Based on SEEP achievements, the government is now more committed to scale-up
energy efficiency in the buildings sector as a way to mitigate the impact of needed energy price
increases, reduce the fiscal deficit by decreasing energy expenditures, and undertake the
renovation of the building stock. There is also strong demand, created partially by the project
results outreach, for such a program by a broader range of stakeholders including regional and
local governments, other publicly-owned service companies, and suppliers of energy efficiency
goods and services.
         Ministry of Energy already confirmed for several times that further World Bank
assistance is more than welcomed in designing a energy efficiency program in building stock and
respective options of financing mechanisms to be proposed. Financing support from the Bank to
such a program is being considered by Ministry of Energy and Ministry of Finance.
         However, it should be highlighted that there is a need to disseminate more broadly the
results achieved during the implementation of both the project’s phases.
         Possible scope and implementation arrangements for the eventual new energy efficiency
project should build on the successful implementation experience from SEEP and recent study
undertaken by the Bank for Serbia residential, public and commercial building stock.
         Based on the results and the implementation experience gained under SEEP, a possible
scaled-up program should include principle of sustainability of future funding through repayment
of investment costs, leverage to possible funding in order to meet the very high investment needs
imposed by NEEAP and to initiate moving towards more commercial financing as Energy
Service Companies (ESCO) in order to shift some of the performance risks away from the public
beneficiaries. 




                                               45
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
n/a




                                    46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Project Appraisal Document
   Aide Memoires and Implementation Status Reports
   Financial Monitoring Reports
   Legal documents, including IBRD loan and IDA credit agreements
   Project Implementation Plan
   First and Second Phase Final Reports
   Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report
   Social Monitoring Survey Final Report (initial project & AF)
   WBG – Republic of Serbia Country Partnership Strategies




                                         47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 34847R
               19°E                       To                     20°E                                                  21°E
                                       Kiskoros


   HUNGARY
                                                                           To
                                                                         Szeged                                                                                                                     SERBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                     Subotica                  ˇ
                                                                          Kanjiza                    To
46°N                                                                                                Arad
                                                                          Senta
                                                                                                                                                                                                  OKRUG (DISTRICT) CAPITALS
                                        Bajmok
                                                                                                                                                                                                  POKRAJINE (PROVINCE) CAPITALS
                                        Backa
                                          ˇ                                        Kikinda                    To
                                       Topola                                                              Timisoara
                                                                  Ada                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
                       Sombor
                Apatin                 Ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIVERS
                             Sivac       liki
                                    Kula
                                                             Becej
                                                               ˇ
                                                                                                                              RO MA NIA                                                           MAIN ROADS

                                                          VOJVODINA                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
                                                                               a          Elemir



                                                                           Tis
                                                                Temerin                                                            To                                                             OKRUG (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
CROATIA                              ˇ
                                 Backa                                              Zrenjanin
                                                                                                                                Timisoara
                                                                                                                                                                                                  POKRAJNE (PROVINCE) BOUNDARIES
              To                 Palanka
           Vinkovci
                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                             Novi Sad
           To                 ˇ                                                                                                                 ˇ
                                                                                                                                             Vrsac
        Vinkovci
                             Sid
                                     Fruska Gora                                                                  Alibunar
                                                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                    Ruma         Indija                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
45°N
                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                           Pancevo
                                                                                                              ˇ                                                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                              Bela Crkva
                                                          Sremska                                                                                                To
                                          ˇ               Mitrovica                                                                                           Carbunari
                      To                  Sabac                                                                         Kovin                                                                                   To
                                                          Sa                   ˇ
                                                                               Zeleznik         BELGRADE                                                                                                      Gura Vail
                   Bijeljina                                 va
                                        Zminjak                                                                                                                         Danube
                                   Prnjavor                                                                                ˇ
                                                                                                                         Pozarevac
                                                                         Obrenovac                       Smederevo                                                                                  Kladovo
                                 Vla                                                                                                                          Golubac
                                       sic                                                                                                   Ho                                                  De
                       Loznica               Pla
                                                    nin
                                                                                                                                                  mo                                           Jov li
                                                           a                                                                                            ljs                                       an
                                                                                       Mladenovac                                                             ke                    Majdanpek
                                                                                                                                                     Petrovac      Pla
                                                                                                                                Velika



                      Dr                                                                                                                                                 ni
                           ina                                                                                  Velika-                                                       na                          Negotin
                                   Ljubovija      PValjevo           M                                           Plana
                                                                                                                                    Morava




                  To                               ov                    al                         SERBIA
                                                                                                                                                        ˇ
                                                                                                                                                        Zagubica
               Sarajevo                                l                                                                                          Bel                                                                       To
                                                                          je




                                                                                                                                                        jani                                Bor
                                                      en




     BOSNIA                                                                                                                                                        ca                                                      Vidin
                                                                               n




                                                                                   Gornji
44°N                                                                           Milanovac             Kragujevac                                                                                                                                       44°N
                                                  Rogacica
      AND                                                                           Cacak
                                                                                       ˇ
                                                                                                Ravni Gaj                                         ´
                                                                                                                                                  Cuprija                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vidin
                                                        ˇ
                                                       Uzice                                                                Jagodina
HERZEGOVINA                                                                      ˇ
                                                                              Pozega
                                                                                                                        (Svetozarevo)                    ´
                                                                                                                                                     Paracin            Rtan
                                                                                                                                                                                              ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                          Zajecar


                                                                                                                                    hor
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Zag
                         To                          Zl                                                                  J      u
                       Gorazde                            ati                                                     Za
                                                                                                                                                                      Soko
                                                                bo                                                  padn                                             Banja
                                                                     r                               Kraljevo           a Mo
                                                                                                                            rava                                                         ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                     Knjazevac
                                                                                                                                                                                                    lav
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ak
                                                                  Ivanjica                                                                                              Aleksinac
                                                                                        Ce




                                                                                                                                         Krusevac
                                                                                                                                            ˇ
                                                                                                          ˇ
                                                                                                         Usce                                                                                                                Midzor
                                                                                             me




                                                                                                                                                 Ve l i k i
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (2168 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               lk
                                                                Ja




                                                                                                                    gin                            trebac
                                                                                                rn




                                                                                                                Zel                            Jas                                                                  an
                                                                     vo




                                                   Prijepolje                                                                                                                 Nis
                                                                                                                                                                                ˇ
                                                                                                o
                                                                         r




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bela
                                                                                               ˇ
                                                                                             Raska                                           Prokuplje
                                                                                                                                                                                    PlaSu
                                                                                                                                                                                           v
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Palanka                  M
                                                       Sjenica
                                                                              Golija                                                 Beloljin                                           n i na                                     ts
                                                                                                                                                                                             a                      Pirot               .
                                                                                                                                                                               Ju
                                                                                                                                                                                 zn




                                                                                   Novi Pazar                                                        Rad
                                                                                                    na
                                                                                                                                                                                    a




                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                              an
                                                                                               oz
                                                                                                                                                                                     Mo




                                                                                                            Priština
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43°N
                                                                                           g
                                                                                                                                                                                       ra




43°N                                                                                                                                         Prepolak
                                                                                        Ro
                                                                                                                                                                    Leskovac
                                                                                                                                                                                          va




                                  To                                                                                                                                                       Vlasotince                                        To
                            Podgorica                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sofia

                                                                                                                                 To                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sofia
       MONTENEGRO                                                                                                              Priština


                                                                                                                                                                          Priboj             Surdulica                     BUL GAR I A
                                                                                                           KO SO VO                                                  Vranje
                                                                                                                                                                                               Bosilegrad              To
                                                                                                                                                                              Bujanovac                               Pernik


                                                                                                                                                      Presevo
                                                                                                                                                         ˇ

             Lake
          SERBIA
                Scutari
                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                              Kumanovo

                                                                                                                                                                                      0              25               50                    75 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                   FYR
                                                             ALB ANI A                                                         MA CEDO NIA                                            0                       25                              50 Miles

        19°E                                                    20°E                                                    21°E                                                          22°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JULY 2009
