FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 71a-JO
APPRAISAL OF THE
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
JORDAN
May 4, 1973
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -     Jordan Dinar (JD)
US$ 1              -      JD o.321
JD 1                -     US$ 3.111
JD 1 million        -     US$ 3,111 million
JD 1                -     1000 Fils
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENrS
kilometer (km)                     -      0.62 mile
square kilometer (km2)             -     0.386 square mile
millimeter (mm)                    -      0.03937 inch
centimeter (cm)                    -      0.3937 inch
meter (m)                           -     39.37 inches
cubic meter (m3)                   -     220 Imperial gallons or 264 US gallons
cubic meters per second (m3/sec)  -       19.1 million Imperial gallons per day
or 22.8 million US gallons per day
liter (1)                          -      0.22 Imperial gallon or 0.264 US gallon
liters per second (1/sec)          -      19,100 Imperial gallons per day or
liters per capita per day (lpcd)          22,800 US gallons per day
ACRONYMS USED
AWSA    -     Amman Municipal Area Water and Sewerage Authority
MLF     -     Municipal Loan Fund
NRA     -     Natural Resources Authority
NWSB    -     National 1&ter and Sewerage Board
ODA     -     Overseas Development Administration (UK)
UNRWA   -     United Nations Relief and Works Agency
VBB     -     Vattenbyggnadsbyran (Stockholm, Sweden)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



JORDAN
APPRAISAL OF THE
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...... ....... .. .......  .............  i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................                           1
II.   THE SECTOR ...................      ........................  1
General ................ ............     09......................    1
Water Resources ..... ..    ...... .   ..... ............. ....    2
Sector Needs and Development         .........................  2
Sector Organization ........o................  .....*.. ..oo  3
III.   THE MAIN BENEFICIARY ....... ........*.... .............      4
Existing Facilities o....o..6oo........oo..... o.oo.........ooo....oo.  4
Administration ....*...........    .. .......................  5
Accounting and Finance ...        ...................*........  5
Amman Municipal Area Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA)  7
Aqaba Development Studies ............................    9
IV.   THE PROJECT .................. .o ..e..o.o.*.                10
Description of the Project ...........................   10
Cost Estimates ........................................    11
Amount of IDA Credit . .................................    . 13
Procurement and Disbursement                                 13
Administration of the Project ....... .................      14
Land Acquisition and Wayleaves ..       ....*. ...   ........   15
Water Rights ......00000000.00.0.0040.0 ......... .          15
Ecological Implications        ..............................   16
V.   JUSTIFICATION so..............   oo.o...o... ..............     .......    16
VI.   FINANCING PLAN AND TARIFFS FOR AWSA ... ..o.........so   17
Financ ing PlIan . . . o. . .................. . .**o.o..o*6aoo4o.o*.o6....... o6  o 17
Tariffs ... .... 0..0.00...0 .... ...... ....... 00....   19
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................   20
This report was prepared by Messrs. A. Al-Khafaji, W. H,ayden, P. C. Kapur and
A. Saravanapavan, and is based on information provided lby the Government, the
consulting engineers' reports and the findings of the field mission of
September/October 1972.



ANNEXES
1.   Population Projections and Water Demand
2.   Population, Water Sales and Water Production Projections
3.   Existing Facilities - Water Supply
4.   Existing Facilities - Sewerage
5.   Description of the Project
6.   Cost Estimates of the Project
7.   Construction Schedule
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.   Organization Chart of Amman Water and Sewerage Authority
10.   Existing Long-Term Debt of Water and Sewerage Services
11.   Justification of Proposed Project
12.   Estimated Income and Expenditure Statements/Water Supply
13.   Estimated Income and Expenditure Statements/Sewerage
(Including Storm-Water Drainage)
14.   Consolidated Income and Expenditure Statements
15.   Estimated Sources and Applications of Funds
16.   Estimated Balance Sheets
17.   Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
18.   Water and Sewerage Tariffs
19.   Aqaba Development Studies
MAPS
Map 1     Jordan; Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Schemes
Map 2     Amman Water Supply Scheme
Map 3     Amman Sewerage Scheme



JORDAN
APPRAISAL OF THE
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a project to increase water
supply and extend the water distribution and sewage disposal systems in
Amman, the capital and commercial center of Jordan. The project is part
of an updated master plan for water supply and sewerage for Amman, whose
existing facilities are inadequate for meeting the needs of the rapidly
growing population, now exceeding half a million. Studies for the develop-
mont of Aqaba are alo  inoluded in the pnrject. --
ii.       An IDA credit of US$8.70 million is proposed and would finance 75%
of the estimated project cost of US$11.55 million equivalent. The borrower
would be the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the main beneficiary would be
the Amman Municipal Area Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), an autonomous
entity established to take over from Amman Municipality the responsibility
for water supply, sanitary sewerage and storm-water drainage. The O6venment
would employ consultants-for the Aqaba development studies.
iii.      The proposed credit would be the third IDA credit for water supply
in Jordan and the first for sewerage. Credit 18-JO (US$1.5 million) was ex-
tended to the Government in December 1961 to finance the foreign exchange
cost of Amman's first water supply project; Credit 43-JO (US$2.5 million)
was extended to the Government in December 1963 to help finance the develop-
ment of water supplies in other urban centers. The closing date of Credit
18-JO was extended two years and the credit was fully disbursed by January
1968. A major objective of Credit 18-JO -- to develop the Anman Municipal
Water Department into an efficient organization -- was not fully achieved.
iv.       The objectives of this project are to (a) extend piped water supply
and sewerage services to all parts of the project area; (b) reduce the per-
centage of unaccounted-for water, currently 64%; and (d) develop AWSA as a
viable entity responsible for Amman's water supply and sewerage systems.
v.        The project includes the construction of pumping stations, trunk
mains, a reservoir, general system improvements, and water distribution
extensions and replacements. These facilities, along with the existing
ones, will be adequate to meet Amman's requirements until 1982. Unplanned
emergency works will be rationalized; they were undertaken in 1970 to over-
come a serious water shortage resulting from the mass immigration of over
100,000 refugees into the city in mid-1967. The project also provides for
new sewer laterals and service connections to make better use of the exist-
ing sewerage facilities. As part of the project, hydrological equipment
will be installed to collect storm-water data, and AWSA staff will be given
training in administration, operations, maintenance and leak detection/
repair.



- ii -
vi.       Of the estimated total project cost of JD 3.71 (US$11.55) million,
JD 2.33 million is for water supply, JD 1.24 million is for sewerage and
JD 0.14 million is for the Aqaba development studies. The proposed credit
would cover the US$7.75 million estimated foreign exchange component and a
small portion (US$0.95 million) of the local costs. The remaining JD 0.91
(US$2.85) million would be financed by the Government and internal cash
generation.
-cii.     Except for some minor civil works, all contracts would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding. The construction con-
tracts would be grouped to attract foreign bidders. Most of the equipment
for the project is expected to be imported.
viii.     An increase of 10 fils/m  in the water rate to 75 fils/m  was
authorized in October 1972, effective January 1, 1973, and an additional 10
fils/m3 increase is projected from 1977 onwards to cover operating costs
(including depreciation) and provide a reasonable surplus to meet the costs
of minor improvements and extensions to the distribution network. Provision
is made for a study of the tariff structure to assess its suitability under
prevailing socio-economic conditions. An amendment to the sewerage law in
October 1972 increased the sewerage user charge on water consumption from 20
fils/m3 to 30 fils/m3 and raised the sewerage tax from 3% to 42 of net rental
value.
ix.       The economic rate of return on the water supply component of the
project is estimated to be at least 10%.
x.        AWSA's return on average net fixed assets is estimated at about 2%
during the project construction period, 1973-76, and is projected to increase
to about 6% by 1980. The individual rates of return on water supply and
sewerage in 1977 are estimated at about 6% and 0.6%, respectively, rising to
about 10% and 2% in 1980.
xi.       It was agreed that the Government relend US$8.33 million of the
proceeds of the credit to AWSA at an annual interest rate of 6% over a term
of 29 years, including a grace period of four years. A Government loan to
AWSA to meet part of the local costs of the water supply and sewerage project
and interest during construction will be made on the same terms.
xii.      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues discussed in
Chapters II, III, IV and VI, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of
US$8.70 million.



JORDAN
APPRAISAL OF THE
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan has requested an IDA credit to
help finance a project for improving and extending the water supply and
sewerage facilities in Amman, and for development studies in Aqaba. The
project is estimated to cost JD 3.71 (US$11.55) million. A credit of US$8.70
million would cover 75% of the project costs; the remaining 25% would be
financed by internal cash generation and the Government.
1.02      In 1961, IDA extended Credit 18-JO to Jordan to cover the foreign
exchange costs of improving and expanding Amman's water supply system.
After initial delays in carrying out this first water supply project for
Amman, the credit amount of US$1.5 million was fully disbursed by January
1968.
1.03      An IDA reconnaissance mission which visited Amman in April 1971
confirmed that the water supply system cannot cope with the needs of the
city's rapidly growing population, which increased sharply in mid-1967.
The Municipality of Amman engaged consultants, Vattenbyggnadsbyran (VBB)
of Stockholm, to prepare a master plan and feasibility studies for water
supply and sewerage facilities and to draw up a proposal for an organization
that could successfully undertake the new works. Two pre-appraisal missions
visited Jordan, in November 1971 and May 1972, and agreed on the scope of
the project, its basic design criteria and proposals for an Amman Municipal
Area Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA). A tourism reconnaissance mission
visited Aqaba in January 1973 to review the development prospects of the region.
1.04      An appraisal mission composed of Messrs. P. C. Kapur, A.
Al-Khafaji, A. Saravanapavan and A. Domenge visited Amman in September/
October 1972. Following a review by the mission, the project components
were defined and the construction program was rescheduled. This report is
based on information provided by the Government, VBB's draft feasibility
study and the mission's findings.
II. THE SECTOR
General
2.01      Jordan, situated in the arid zone of 2the Middle East, has an area
of about 87,000 km2, of which all but 6,000 km lie on t]he East Bank of the
Jordan River. The population is estimated at 2.4 million, growing at an
annual rate of 3.5%. Approximately 75% of the people live on the East Bank



- 2-
and about half of them are refugees. The East Bank population is concen-
trated in the areas with the best water supply -- the Governorates of Amman,
Balqa and Irbid in northern Jordan.
2.02      Amman, located at the center of the country's natural and industrial
resources, is not only the capital but also the preeminent economic center
of Jordan and the main East Bank communications center. The development of
Jordan's economy would be handicapped without adequate water supply and sewer-
age for the rapidly growing population of its capital city and commercial
center. Twice in the past two decades Amman's population has doubled; the
main factors underlying this phenomenal growth were the political events
of 1948 and 1967. In mid-1967 the city experienced a sudden influx of some
100,000 refugees. Since then its population has increased at a rate of
about 5% a year. The resident population in 1971 was estimated at 521,000
and is projected to reach 850,000 by 1982 (Annex 1). The municipal
boundaries have expanded along with the population increases; within the
present boundaries there are two refugee camps established before 1965 and
administered by the UN Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA).
Water Resources
2.03      Jordan has no sizable sources of surface water.  There are only
a few suitable dam sites for storage of surface water, one of these being
Wadi Zerqa where a dam is under construction. The most important aquifer
is the Amman-Wadi Sir system, which outcrops extensively in the central part
of Jordan; wells served by this aquifer are the main source of Amman's water
supply. Another important aquifer system, in northern Jordan, has been
identified recently and is under development. Flowing artesian water has
been discovered in limestones near Amman.
Sector Needs and Development
2.04      Chronic water shortages have adversely affected living conditions
in the country's main urban centers and prevented the improvement of sanita-
tion. The present per capita consumption of water is very low everywhere --
about 35 lpcd in the main towns and 12 lpcd in the smaller towns and the
refugee camps. During peak demand in the summer months the municipalities
often resort to either rationing water or hauling it by truck.
2.05      Only three cities -  Amman, Aqaba and Salt -  have sewer systems
and sewage treatment facilities. Because of the small number of premises
connected to the system in Amman, it serves only a small percentage of the
city's population. At Aqaba and Salt the treatment facilities are reported
to be overloaded and require essential improvements. Throughout the country,
including the main urban centers, waste disposal is unhygienic and the sani-
tation standards are unsatisfactory.



-3-
2.06      Because of the limited sources of surface water, the country's
urban and industrial development depends on groundwater supplies. The
Government is taking steps to improve and expand these supplies and also to
meet the most urgent sewerage requirements. Funds for ithe Amman water sup-
ply and sewerage project are included in the three-year development plan
(1973-75). The need for water supply projects in other urban centers and
in about 20 large villages is under study by the Natiomal Planning Council.
Consideration is also being given to meeting regional water needs, so that
there will be an integrated development of the country's scarce water re-
sources. Recently, the Government formulated a rehabil:Ltation and develop-
ment program for the East Bank, the water supply component of which includes
five water resource schemes and associated distribution systems (zonal proj-
ects) with a total cost of JD 2.25 (US$7.00) million. The Ministry of Rural
and Municipal Affairs, which gives the municipalities technical advice on
water supply and sewerage, has proposed new sewerage systems for Zerqa, Irbid
and Jerash and improvement of Salt's sewer system.
2.07      It is anticipated that the Government will seek IDA assistance in
financing a Jordan Valley Rehabilitation and Development- Program which is
now being prepared as well as several urban and rural watter supply projects
currently under review by the National Planning Council. With respect to
Amman, further investments for new water production faciLlities and expansion
of its water supply and sewer systems will be needed in 1977/1978.
2.08      IDA has extended two credits to Jordan for water supply: Credit
18-JO in 1961 for US$1.5 million to help finance the first Amman water supply
project, and Credit 43-JO in 1963 for US$2.5 million to help finance water
supply projects in the Ramallah-El Bira (Jerusalem) and Azraq-lrbid areas and
in Zerqa.
Sector Organization
2.09      The Natural Resources Authority (NRA) is the government agency
responsible for constructing water supply schemes for all municipalities
except Amman. After the facilities are commissioned, NRA turns them over
to the respective municipalities, which are responsible for operating them.
NRA also provides bulk water supplies for four towns and some 150 villages
in the northern and central parts of the country, and operates and maintains
four small water supply systems in southern Jordan. The other towns have
their own water supplies.
2.10      To improve the organization of the sector, the! Government is
considering setting up a National Water and Sewerage Board (NWSB) and cur-
rently has under review a preliminary draft of the enabling legislation.
In consultation with IDA, a law was enacted recently that created the Amman
Municipal Area Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), which will continue to
be responsible for water supply, sewerage and storm-water drainage in Amman
Municipality after creation of NWSB.



- 4 -
2.11      NRA's Water Department is expected to be the core of the proposed
NWSB. It is important that the relationship between NWSB and AWSA should
be set out clearly in the legislation. Agreement was reached during negotia-
tions that the Government will furnish to the Association the proposed legisla-
tion for establishing NWSB sufficiently in advance for the Association to
comment on any matter that may affect AWSA.
III. THE MAIN BENEFICIARY
3.01      As in Credit 18-JO for Amman's first water supply project, the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan would be the borrower in the proposed new credit.
Under a subsidiary loan agreement the Government would relend US$8.33 million
of the proceeds of the credit to the Amman Municipal Area Water and Sewerage
Authority (AWSA).
3.02      AWSA has been established, on the recommendations of Foretagsadmin-
istration AB (management consultants sub-contracted by VBB),to take over
from Amman Municipality all water supply, sanitary sewerage and storm-water
drainage functions. AWSA is an autonomous local authority with powers to
borrow funds and will be organized and operated in accordance with the
consultants' recommendations (para. 3.17-3.20). To give an indication of the
tasks facing AWSA, the municipal water supply and sewerage operations are de-
scribed below.
Existing Facilities
3.03      Amman gets its water from boreholes varying in depth from 50 to
450 meters and from a few springs.  The water is normally of good chemical
quality, but recent bacteriological analyses have indicated possible con-
tamination from the infiltration of sewage from cesspools, etc.  The distri-
bution network is divided into four pressure zones; however, the physical
separation of the zones is only partially completed. Several emergency
arrangements for pumping were made in 1970 to supply water to the high-
pressure zones and to areas outside the city. There are about 34,000 water
service connections, all of them metered. The meters are owned and main-
tained by the consumers. Residents of the refugee camps generally obtain
their water from public standpipes, although some are provided with indi-
vidual meters. Details of Amman's existing water supply facilities are
given in Annex 3.
3.04      Water supply facilities constructed under Credit 18-JO included
new boreholes, two pumping stations, two service reservoirs and about 40 km
of trunk mains and distribution network. Construction of the project was
completed in 1968 except for one pumping station, which was re-sited, built
underground for security reasons and completed in 1972.



-5-
3.05      In the past 11 years the percentage of unaccounted-for water has
exceeded 40% every year except 1963 (37%) and has risen to 64% in 1972
(Annex 3, para. 15). The high water losses are attributable to a number of
unresolved problems: leakages in the water distribution network, illegal
connections, inaccurate metering, overflowing reservoirs, and inefficient
billing and collection procedures. But the basic cause has been poor operating
management, which in turn is due to the shortage of traiLned staff, inadequate
supervision and an unreliable water supply.
3.06      Due in part to the large increases in Amman's population in
recent years (para. 2.02) and in part to the large water losses (para.
3.05), the existing water supply facilities are not adequate to cope with
present demand. Since 1968 Amman has been experiencing such acute water
shortages that water is supplied to the various sections of the city on a
cyclical basis; furthermore, some of the newly built-up areas are served
by inadequate temporary arrangements. This situation tends to encourage
illicit measures to ensure individual supplies.
3.07      A first-stage sewerage project, comprising construction of a
sewage treatment plant, main sanitary sewers and storm-wlater sewers, was
completed in 1969. Sewer laterals and house connections, covering the
central part and three main hills (Jabels) of the city, are under construc-
tion. Although the treatment plant and main sewer network were designed
to serve a population of about 300,000, only some 1,500 premises are con-
nected to the network and the predominant method of sewage disposal in
Amman is by use of cesspools. Few health or other benefits have been real-
ized thus far from the large investment (more than JD 2.0 million) in the
sewerage system. Modest additional investment is needed so that more sewer
laterals and house connections can be constructed and greater use made of
the existing facilities. Many of the system's present lproblems stem from
inadequate planning and the lack of an effective organization to stimulate
corrective action. Details on Amman's existing sewerag,e facilities are given
in Annex 4.
Administration
3.08      A major objective of the first IDA credit -  to establish an
efficient Water Department within Amman Municipality -- was not fully
achieved. The engineering and accounting units in the ]Municipality's Water
and Sewerage Departments remained very weak. The operation and maintenance
of facilities have suffered from a shortage of trained supervisory, opera-
tional and maintenance Staff, caused in part by the low salary structure.
Both departments were also handicapped by poor organization and lack of dele-
gation of authority. The Director for Water was also Director for Markets
and devoted little time to water supply.
Accounting and Finance
3.09      The departments' accounting systems were inadequate, provided
little information for management control and were not audited (except for a



- 6 -
prepayment examination of vouchers exceeding a certain limit). The accounts
of the Sewerage Department formed part of those of the Municipality. The
Water Department, however, has functioned since 1965 as a semi-autonomous
municipal department, with its finances and accounts maintained separately
in accordance with the Project Agreement in Credit 18-JO. They were main-
tained mostly on a cash basis and depreciation of fixed assets was not in-
cluded; however, the accounts receivable were entered on an "accruals" basis.
In both departments there was no inventory control and the estimated value
of assets was not shown in the accounts.
3.10      The financial performance of the Water Department was unsatisfactory.
In the period 1967-71 the operating costs (excluding depreciation) increased
by about 73% but revenues increased by only 38%; if depreciation is included,
the rise in operating costs was 77%. In 1971 water production increased
by about 35% over that of the previous year but sales increased by only 1%.
In 1972, despite an estimated increase of 33% in production, sales were not
expected to rise by more than 21%. Consequently, the earnings of the Water
Department and its rate of return on average net fixed assets have been
marginal in recent years. The rate of return was 2.6% in 1970, 1.4% in 1971,
and is estimated at 2% in 1972 (Annex 12).
3.11      All investments in both sanitary sewerage and storm-drainage have
been financed by loans or by the city's general funds. Recurring costs have
been met from the Municipality's general revenues, which include a sewerage
tax and other collections for sanitary sewerage services; nco separate fees
are charge,d for storm-water drainage.
3.12      At the end of 1971 the long-term debt of the Water Department
amounted to JD 1.2 million. In April 1972 the department borrowed JD 150,000
from the Jordan National Bank and to ineet the cash requirements in 1972,
another loan of about JD 100,000 was under negotiation. In 1966-67 the Gov-
ernment made loans of JD 2.5 million for construction of sewers and storm-
drainage works; these loans are interest free and repayable over a term of
ten years commencing in October 1976.
3
3.13      The water rate of 65 fils/m , in effect for 12 years, was not
adequate and a new rate of 75 fils/m3 was implemented on January 1, 1973
(Para. 6.04). Although most of the connections are metered, the billing
procedures are unsatisfactory. Bills are prepared quarterly on manual account-
ing machines and delivered by the meter readers on their next reading visit.
The consumer can either pay the meter reader on the basis of the meter reading
or upon receipt of the bill, or he can make payment at the Municipality's main
cash office. The meter readers collect a substantial amount of the water
revenues but there is no internal control over their work.
3.14      Those connected to the sewer system pay a user charge on water
consumption of 30 fils/m3 (increased from 20 fils in October 1972), a
one-time fee of 25% of annual rental value of premises, and a connection fee



-7-
based on the type of building to be connected. In addition, a law enacted
in 1964 required payment of a sewerage tax at 3% of annual rental value of
all premises for five years (1965-1969). The law also provided for the tax
to continue for fifteen more years on premises connected to the sewer system.
However, no sewerage tax was collected after 1969. In October 1972 an amend-
ment to this law raised this tax to 4% and made it applicable to all house-
holders whether or not their premises are connected to the sewer system.
The sewerage tax is collected as part of the general property tax by the
Ministry of Finance, which transfered to the Mtunicipality its share after re-
taining a 10% collection charge. The efficiency of collection has averaged
70% in recent years.
3.15      The Water and Sewerage Departments did not insure their propearty
against risks other than war risks, for which compulsory insurance was re-
cently introduced.
3.16      The deficiencies of the present water and sewerage operations in
Amman have been highlighted in order to point up the need for corrective
action. Yet it should be noted that the water operation has a number of
achievements to its credit; they include meeting the essential water needs
of Amman after a sudden increase of 25% in the city's population in 1967 and
maintaining water supply during the emergencies of the past five years.
Amman Municipal Area Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA)
3.17      Recognizing the need to reorganize the water supply and sewerage
operations in Amman, the Government and the Municipality, in consultation
with IDA, engaged management consultants (para. 3.02) to examine the
problems and propose solutions. The consultants recommended the establish-
ment of AWSA and prepared the draft legislation, an organizational structure
and a staffing plan. Most of the consultants' recommendations have been
accepted by the Municipality and are to be implemented by AWSA. IDA reviewed
the draft legislation and found it acceptable. Law 19 of 1973 establishing
AWSA was approved by the Jordanian National Assembly in April 1973.
3.18      AWSA is an autonomous local authority and has acquired the assets
and liabilities of both the Water and Sewerage Departments of Amman Municipality.
Control of AWSA is vested in a seven-member Board of Directors, composed of
the Lord Mayor as chairman, three members from the Amman Municipal Council,
one member from the National Planning Council, one from the Natural Resources
Authority, and one from the private sector. The Lord Mayor is responsible
to the Prime Minister for the activities of the Board.
3.19      A chart showing AWSA's organization is in Annex 9.  Under the
General Manager there are five departments: Administration, Finance, Water
Operations, Sewerage Operations, and Engineering. The General Manager,
appointed by the Board, is responsible for implementing Board policy and for



-8-
day-to-day control. A competent General Manager was appointed in March 1973
and has assumed his post. The former Director of the Sewerage Department
and the Chief Engineer of the Water Department have been appointed as Chief
Engineer (Sewerage) and Chief Engineer (Water) respectively. The municipal
staff formerly assigned to the Water Supply and Sewerage Departments have
been transferred to AWSA. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
AWSA will at all times carry out its operations under the supervision of a
competent General Manager and other competent senior staff.
3.20      Municipal and Government agencies are experiencing considerable
difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified staff partly because of
poor salary scales and unattractive career prospects. Many are lost to the
private sector and to neighboring rich Arab countries. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that AWSA will upgrade its salary structure to provide
salaries and career development prospects that will enable it to attract and
retain sufficient qualified staff in competition with other organizations,
authorities and corporations in Jordan.
3.21      The UK's Overseas Development Administration (ODA), under its
technical assistance program, has agreed to provide AWSA with four advisors
to assist, respectively, the General Manager, Chief Engineer (Water), Chief
Engineer (Sewerage) and Finance Manager. The Advisors to the General Manager
and the Finance Manager have been recruited and have assumed their posts in
Amman. During construction of the first water supply project (Credit 18-JO)
similar assistance was provicied out not used effectively. The importance
of implementing the recommendations of the ODA advisors was emphasized during
negotiations and agreement reached that management and accounting consultants,
acceptable to IDA, will be engaged if the ODA assistance is terminated before
a satisfactory management and accounting system has been set up.
3.22      As mentioned heretofore, AWSA has taken over the assets and
liabilities of the Municipality's Water and Sewerage Departments. The gross
value of the fixed assets as of January 1, 1973, is estimated at JD 6.5
million and the net value (after depreciation) at JD 5.7 million. These
estimates are based on the consultants' computations and are acceptable.
Most of the assets have been constructed in the past six years. The gross
value of water supply assets built prior to 1966 is only about JD 450,000
ani that of sewerage assets is JD 478,000. AWSA's total long-term debt as
of January 1, 1973, is estimated at JD 3.8 million (Annex 10).
3.23      The accounting staff, at both supervisory and operating levels,
do not have the necessary knowledge and experience to develop AWSA's
accounting system. A provision of JD 10,000 for training of the staff, either
locally or overseas, in modern methods of accounting and budgetary control
has been included in the project. During negotiations agreement was reached
that ASWA will employ a qualified accountant experienced in utility accounting,
budgeting and costing; and that before September 30, 1973, AWSA will submit
for IDA's approval a training program for the accounting staff.



- 9 -
3.24      It is essential that AWSA, with the assistance of the ODA financial
expert, establish a proper accounting system as soon as possible. Agreement
was reached during negotiations that AWSA will prepare in draft form (a) a
chart of accounts and accounting procedures and rules; (b) an inventory control
system; and (c) a timetable for the new accounting system's implementation,
to be submitted before September 30, 1973, to IDA for comment; and that the
financial accounts will be prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.
3.25      The legislation creating AWSA provides that its accounts and all
of its financial affairs will be audited annually by qualified auditors.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that an annual audit will be made
of AWSA's accounts by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that AWSA
will send the auditors' report and the annual accounts to IDA not later than
four months after the end of each fiscal year.
3.26      The problem of unaccounted-for water (para. 3.05) needs to be solved
as soon as possible. Establishment of AWSA with adequate and competent staff
should contribute toward a solution. The project incltudes provisions for a
meter repair shop and the supply of water production and domestic meters
(para. 4.03). Agreement was reached during negotiations that before January
1, 1974, AWSA will (a) employ a leak detection specialist to undertake a
leakage survey; (b) establish a leak detection and repair section; (c) under-
take a house-to-house survey to detect illegal connectiLons and to update re-
cords; and (d) submit to IDA for comment proposals for reorganizing the
billing and collection system to establish proper internal control and im-
plement a mutually agreed system.
3.27      A conservative reduction of 4% per year in unaccounted-for water
has been assumed in making the financial projections. By 1982 this loss is
projected to decrease to a reasonable level of 24% of water production.
3.28      The management consultants have proposed thalt billing and the
monthly accounts be computerized. The economics of launching such a
program for a comparatively small organization such as AWSA are questionable.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that computerization will not be
introduced without prior consultation with IDA.
3.29      The establishment of AWSA, appointment of experienced staff and
improvement of administrative procedures are expected to remedy many of
the managerial shortcomings of the old administration and, under normal
conditions, should result in satisfactory implementation of the project and
efficient operation and maintenance of the expanded water supply and sewerage
systems.
Aqaba Development Studies
3.30      In recent years, the Jordanian Government has concentrated growing
attention on Aqaba, one of the few areas in the country with real prospects
for multi-sectoral development. The region has considerable tourism potential;
situated on the nearest shore to Europe where winter swimming is possible,
near the carved-stone city of Petra and the scenic Wadi Ram desert. The



- 10 -
availability of a good transportation network, abundant labor and the
geographic situation of the town also enhances the region's prospects for
gradual industrialization.
3.31      The proposed development studies, which will be supervised by an
inter-disciplinary committee set up within the National Planning Council, will
be aimed at establishing a comprehensive design for future regional develop-
ment. The present plans for the area are fragmented as they were conceived
in different periods and prepared independently by different agencies.
IV. THE PROJECT
Description of the Project
4.01      The project includes water supply and sewerage facilities for Amman
and development studies for the Aqaba region. The water supply and sewerage
components are part of an updated master plan for Amman. The proposed
facilities together with the existing ones will be adequate to meet Amman's
requirements until 1982. The water demand forecasts (Annex 1) are based on
population projections prepared by VBB, an increase in the connected pop-
ulation's consumption by 2 lpcd annually from 1974, and reduction of un-
accounted-for water (4% annually) to 24% of water production by 1982. Sewage
flows and loading are based on water consumption figures.
4.02      The principal elements of the project are listed below; for details
see Annexes 5 and 19 and Maps 2 and 3.
(A) Water Supply
(i)  A new pumping station at Tadj (capacity of about
360 1/sec) including aeration and chlorination
facilities, a new booster station and additional
pumps for Ras el Ain pumping station.
(ii)  Expansion and replacement of the water distribution
network, including the installation of about 20 km
of large diameter pipes (trunk mains), 80 km of
medium and small diameter pipes (distribution net-
work including house connections), one service
reservoir with a capacity of 4,000 m3, and an
improved communications system between key reservoirs
and pumping stations. Also included are about 12,000
water meters some of which will be used for replacement.
(iii)  Two new boreholes and improvement of the existing
installations, including new submersible pumps, water
production meters, chlorination facilities and pumphouses.



- 11 -
(iv) Provision for employing a specialized firm to undertake
a leak detection survey, the mapping of leaks in the
network and preparation of a repair/replacement program.
(v)  Office building, garage, store and meter repair shop
for AWSA and supply of hydrological equipment.
(B) Sewerage
(i)  A 2-km sewer main (500 mm) in the city's center and
about 100 km of sewer laterals and house connections.
Also, about 8 km of sewer laterals to compLete the
ongoing program of laterals construction.
(ii) Minor improvements to the sewage treatment plant.
(C) Consulting Services
(i) Consulting services for management studies, master
plan and preliminary engineering and for detailed
design and supervision of construction of the
project.
(ii) External assistance for training of AWSAts adminis-
trative staff in accounting methods and engagement
of a qualified firm for operation and maintenance
training.
(D) Aqaba Development Studies
Consulting services to:
(i)  Review existing studies and prepare recommendations for
the basic infrastructure development of the Aqaba region,
including a proposed free industrial and commercial zone.
(ii) Elaborate on the existing Aqaba tourism development plan.
Cost Estimates
4.03      The estimated costs of the project are summarized below and
detailed in Annex 6.



- 12 -
% of Total
Item           Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Expenditure
----- JD (000) ------   ----- US$ (000) -----
Water Supply
Pumping stations       36        256      292    112        796     908         8
Distribution system
extensions & re-
placements          242        784   1,026    753    2,439   3,192          27
Development & im-
provement of bore-
holes                23         72       95      72      224      296        3
Leak survey             2         37       39       6       115      121        1
Office bldg, meter
repair shop, etc.  42           70      112    131       218      349        3
Sub-total, Water
supply              345      1,219   12564  1,074    3,792   4,866          42
Sewerage
Sewer extensions    510          440      950  1,587    1,369   2,956          26
Plant improvements    2            2        4       6         6       12      -
Sub-total,
Sewerage            512        442     954  1,593    1,375   2              26
Land Aguisition          46          -       46    143          -      143        1
Consulting Services
Engineering            85        233      318    264        725     989        8
Training               12         58       70      37       180     217         2
Contingencies
Physical - Water
supply (15%)         52        183      235    162       569      731        6
Physical - Sewerage
(10%)               51         44       95    159        137      296        3
Price (7%
per annum)           93        192      285    289       598      887        8
TOTAL WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE          1,196               3,567  3,721    7,376  11,097         96
Aqaba Development
Studies                 26        119      145      80      370      450        4
TOTAL PROJECT COST  1,222        2,490   3,712  3,801    7,746  11,547         100



- 13 -
4.04      The cost estimates were prepared by the consultants and are based
on detailed designs for the sewerage component and preliminary designs for
the water supply component.  The estimates are derived from current quotations
for equipment and materials and from experience gained in construction of the
ongoing sewerage project and the Ras el Ain pumping station. The cost of the
Aqaba development studies was estimated by the Goverment, assisted by IDA
staff.
4.05      Physical contingencies of 10% for the sewerage and 15% for the
water supply works have been added for both materials and civil works. The
higher contingency for water supply is to cover unforeseen conditions during
detailed design and construction of the project. The price contingencies -
an average annual increase of 7% iT both foreign and domestic prices - reflect
the increase in the cost-of-living index in Jordan over the past few years, and
allow for possible increases in insurance and freight rates for shipment to a
country like Jordan which has difficult access. In recent years, price in-
creases of up to 20% on pipe shipments were reported when access to Mediterranean
ports was restricted.
4.06      The foreign exchange component of the project costs was estimated
on the basis of expected direct imports, plus the estimated import content
of those domestic production sectors whose materials could be used in the
project.
Amount of IDA Credit
4.07      An IDA credit of US$8.70 million (75% of the total costs) is
proposed to cover all of the project's foreign exchange costs (US$7.75 mil-
lion) and part of the local costs (US$0.95 million).
Procurement and Disbursement
4.08      All equipment supply and civil works contracts, except minor con-
tracts for well drilling and scattered sewer laterals to complete the on-
going program (amounting to about JD 100,000), would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Association's
Guidelines for Procurement. Except for sewer pipes and some minor items,
the equipment and materials to be used in the project are not produced in
Jordan. However, it was agreed to give the usual margin of preference of 15%
or custom duties whichever is the lower. There are no government restrictions
on importing goods, and according to the Law establishing AWSA the authority
is exempted from all custom duties and taxes.
4.09      The construction contracts would be combined as far as practicable
but bids will also be invited for components of the packages. This should
enable local contractors to compete as well as encourage bids from foreign
contractors. Local firms are expected to obtain civil works contracts for
sewerage service connections and several sub-contracts.



- 14 -
4.10      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
(i)  Civil Works
60% of the co8t of construction contracts.
(ii)  Equipment and Materials
The CIF cost of imported equilment and the ex-factory
cost (excluding taxes) of locally-produced equLipment;
(iii)  Consulting Services
100% of the foreign exchange costs of consulting
services for engineering, management studies, and
training.
4.11      Retroactive financing not exceeding US$250,000 is proposed in
respect of expenditures incurred after December 1971 for consulting services
for the management studies, master plan, preliminary engineering for water
supply and final engineering for sewerage.
4.12      A proposed allocation of the IDA credit is shown in Annex 6 and
a quarterly disbursement :orecast is shown in Annex 8.
Administration of the Project
4.13       AWSA will be responsible for carrying out the water supply and
sewerage components of the project, whereas the Government will be responsible
for the Aqaba development studies. As AWSA will not have adequate staff for
some time, however, it would have to engage engineering consultants to prepare
detailed designs and tender documents, evaluate bids and supervise construction.
A contract with VBB to undertake final engineering and supervision of construc-
tion of the project has been concluded. During negotiations it was agreed that
AWSA will continue to employ an engineering consultant satisfactory to IDA
during the project construction period, that NRA will ensure the proper installa-
tion and maintenance of the hydrological equipment and that AWSA will submit
to IDA for comment before January 1, 1974 the work program and data to be
gathered by NRA. It was also agreed that the Government will engage consult-
ants for the Aqaba development studies on terms satisfactory to IDA.
4.14      Under the proposed organization, AWSA's Chief Engineer (Engineer-
ing) would be responsible for project administration. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that an experienced senior engineer will be appointed to
this position before September 30, 1973.
4.15      The mechanical and electrical equipment at the Amman sewage
treatment plant and pumping stations is not functioning satisfactorily.
The present staff is not fully acquainted with its operation and maintenance.
The Kiunicipality has been discussing with Oy Yleinen Insinooritomisto (YIT),



- 15 -
the Finnish firm that erected most of the equipment, the prospects of bringing
a team of experienced personnel to Amman to train the staff in the proper
operation and maintenance of the equipment. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that before January 1, 1974 AWSA will contract with YIT or some
other qualified firm for staff training in operation and maintenance of the
existing facilities under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
4.16      The Amman Public Sewerage Law requires all premises in areas pro-
vided with sewer laterals to have their service connections made and cess-
pools closed within three months following official notification by the
Municipality. If connections are not made within the specified period the
Sewerage Department is authorized by the Law to install the service connections
and to collect from the owners the incurred costs plus an additional 20%
penalty fee. However, these requirements have not been enforced to date.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that AWSA will take all necessary
steps to ensure that all premises for which sewer laterals are constructed
under the project will have sewerage service connections made within six
months and in any case not later than nine months follow:Lng completion of the
sewer laterals.
4.17      Project execution, from design through commiss:Loning, is expected
to begin in 1973 and be completed in 1976. The construction schedule is
shown in Annex 7.
Land Acquisition and Wayleaves
4.18      Land for the Tad  pumping station and the new reservoir will have
to be acquired. Also, on the transmission pipeline, wayleaves may have to
be obtained for passing through private property. No special problems are
foreseen in this respect. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that AWSA will take appropriate action on land acquisition and wayleaves
to avoid delays in project implementation.
Water Rights
4.19      Amman Municipality has an agreement with Wadi Sir Municipality
to pump water from Wadi Sir spring into the Amman water supply system and,
in return, to provide water free of charge to meet their local needs and
also make an annual payment of JD 3,200 to Wadi Sir Municipality. Thus, as
the latter's needs are expected to increase, smaller quantities of water
would be available to Amman. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
the Government will assist AWSA and Wadi Sir Municipality in establishing
equitable allocation of Wadi Sir spring water between each other by not later
than June 30, 1974 or such other date as shall be agreed upon between the
Government and the Association.



- 16 -
Ecological Implications
4.20      The Amman Seil, the principal stream flowing through Amman,
receives most of the city's liquid wastes. During the dry summer months
the stream is grossly polluted and becomes a source of contamination to
several water supply wells on its banks. As almost every household has a
cesspool or septic tank, in the congested sections of the city the environ-
ment is degraded by overflowing cesspools or seepage of sewage effluent into
backyards and onto roads. The ongoing sewerage scheme to improve the con-
dition of the Amman Seil, enhance the quality of the environment and remove
the danger to the city's water supplies has not had any impact because of
poor planning and the slow rate of making sewerage service connections. With
the completion of the proposed project, however, sanitary conditions in the
city and the quality of the sewage effluent would be improved and associated
ecological and health benefits realized. Also, the danger of contamination
of the Amman-Wadi Sir aquifer would be reduced.
V. JUSTIFICATION
5.01      Amman is the country's major economic center as well as its capital
city. Despite the area's importance, the municipal water supply and sewage
disposal facilities are inadequate and the management and organization un-
satisfactory; hence the necessity of the project. As the Amman water system
is not continuously under pressure, the water cannot be considered as safe;
waterborne diseases such as typhoid and paratyphoid have a high incidence in
the city. The deficiencies of the municipal system force those consumers
to install roof tanks and construct and clean cesspools.
5.02      Projections of population and water demand are shown in Annex 1.
The city's high population growth rate (12%) in recent years is to a large
extent due to the influx of over 100,000 refugees in 1967. The normal
growth rate, excluding refugees, is about 5%. The design forecasts were
based on projections of a natural growth of 3% and a normal immigration of
2%, giving a total growth of 5%. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually
to 3% toward the end of the century. Per capita consumption in 1971 was
only 30 lpcd (40 lpcd for connected population). The projected demand has
assumed that increased consumption will parallel population growth plus an
increase in per capita consumption of connected population of 2 lpcd each
year from 1973, to give an annual increase in water sales of 9.5% up to 1980.
The annual increase in sales for the previous ten years -- a period of
severe water shortages - was 7%. The present demand projections are con-
servative; if demand were to increase more rapidly, the installation of
additional pumps, now timed for 1978, could be advanced.
5.03      The facilities included in the project were selected from among
several alternatives as the least-cost solution for meeting the city's



- 17 -
requirements. The major elements of the project are the least cost solution
at discount rates of 8%, 10% and 15%. No shadow pricing was used; there is
full employment in the construction industry and the foreign exchange rate
of the Jordanian Dinar is stable. The sewer extensions were designed by
consultants, using adequate design criteria. Detailed design of the water
supply component will also be undertaken by consultants.
5.04      The measurable benefits of the water supply component will come
from the supplv of additional water, which will provide an economic rate of
return of at least 10.1%. An economic rate of return of 7.6% would be
achieved even if the benefits decreased by 25%. It was not possible to cal-
culate a meaningful economic rate of return for sewerage as the major benefits
in public health are difficult to quantify. The sewerage component is the
least-cost solution for providing adequate waste-disposaL facilities in
Amman at discount rates of up to 23.7% (Annex 11). The only feasible alter-
native is the construction and proper maintenance of private cesspools.
5.05      The supply of potable water to people not hitherto served, the
improvement in water quality resulting from continuous and adequate pressure
throughout the Amman water system, and the improvements Ln waste disposal
and sanitation will bring about public health benefits. They were not quan-
tified because of the lack of adequate data and also because part of the
benefits are reflected in the consumers' willingness to pay for water supply
and sewerage services.
5.06      At present the investment plans for Aqaba are fEragmented and uncoor-
dinated. The Aqaba development studies, by establishing a comprehensive plan,
would ensure optimum use of the resources allocated for Aqaba.
VI. FINANCING PLAN AND TARIFFS FOR AWSA
Financing Plan
6.01      The projected sources and applications of funds for the project
construction period, 1973-76, are shown in Annex 15. The capital require-
ments of AWSA total JD 4.6 (US$14.3) million, of which 83% will be financed
by borrowings (including 59% by the proposed IDA credit) and 17% by internal
cash generation, as outlined below.



- 18 -
Period 1973-76
Sources of Funds                    JD (nillions)    US$ (millions)    %
Proposed IDA Credit                    2.68               8.33         59
Government Loan                        1.08               3.36         24
Total Borrowings                     3.76              11.69         83
Internal Cash Generation               1.71               5.32         37
Less: Debt Service                     0.89               2.76         20
Net Cash Generation                    0.82               2.56         17
Total Sources                        4.58              14.25        100
Applications of Funds
ProJect Expeaditures
Water Supply                         2.33               7.25         51
Sewerage                             1.24               3.86         27
3.57              11.11        78
Other Capital Expenditures
Water Supply                         0.25               0.78          5
Sewerage                             0.18               0.56          4
0.43               1.34          9
Total Capital Expenditures             4.00              12.45         87
Interest Capitalized
During Construction                 0.50               1.55         11
Increase in Working Capital            0.08               0.25          2
Total Requirements                   4.58              14.25        100
6.02      During negotiations agreement was reached that (a) the two existing
interest-free Government loans, amounting to JD2.5 million, for sanitary
sewerage and storm-water drainage will be converted to Municipal. equity; and
(b) the relending of the IDA credit and lending of Government funds will be
for a term of 29 years, including four years grace, at an annual interest
rate of 6%, comparable to the rate currently charged by commercial banks to
Government agencies in Jordanl/. A higher relending rate would tend to
defeat the stabilising effect of the measures mentioned in (a) above.
1/   Credit 18-JO was relent at 4% in 1961.



- 19 -
6.03      The projected financial statements of AWSA for the period 1973
through 1980 are shown in Annexes 12 - 16 and the assumptions for the pro-
jections are in Annex 17. The return on net fixed assets of the water supply
system is projected at 3% to 5% during the project construction period
(1973-76), increasing to 10% in 1980. The sewerage system is projected to break
even on operating costs during the period 1973-76 and to earn a rate of return
of 2% by 1980. The rate of return on the joint water and sewerage operations
is projected at about 2% during the project construction period, increasing
to 6% in 1980.
Tariffs
6.04      In order to provide adequate funds to meet depreciation and
increased operating and maintenance costs and provide a reasonable contri-
bution toward the future expansion of the water supply system, the Govern-
ment has agreed to increase the water rate to 75 fils/m3, effective January
1, 1973. Agreement was reached during negotiations that AWSA will charge
not less than an average rate of 75 fils/m3 for water sold to the general
public during the period up to December 31, 1976. Also, agreement was reach-
ed that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AWSA shall take
all necessary steps to establish and maintain water tariffs at a level suf-
ficient to yield an annual rate of return on the value of water supply net
fixed assets in operation of not less than 6% in 1977 and not less than 7-1/2%
from January 1, 1978 onward. An increase of 10 fils/m' is projected after
completion of the project to cover the increased debt service and generate
sufficient funds for minor improvements and extensions to the system. However,
should the percentage of unaccounted-for water be reduced to a level of about
32% by 1977 instead of by 1980 as conservatively projected, this increase
may not be required.
6.05      The revised rate of 75 fils/m' (US$0.9011,000 gal) 1/, together
with the minimum quarterly charge of 780 fils, bears very heavily on the
poorer members of the community. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that AWSA will complete a study of the water tariff structure before June 30,
1974, to assess its suitability under prevailing socio-economic conditions
and submit the findings to IDA and thereafter promptly implement such recom-
mendations as shall have been mutually agreed upon.
1/   For comparison, water rates in other cities in the area are:
Damascus, Syria                   US$o.19/1,ooo gal
Istanbul, Turkey                 US$0.52/1,000 gal
Rabat, Morocco                    US$0.54/1,000 gal
Tunis, Tunisia                    US$0.56/1,000 gal



- 20 -
6.06      During negotiations the implementation of the revised sewerage
rate (para. 3.14) was confirmed and agreement was reached that rates for
sewerage and storm-water drainage will be fixed so as to yield sufficient
revenue to meet operating and maintenance costs, provision for depreciation,
and debt service requirements to the extent they exceed the provision for
depreciation.
6.07      During negotiations agreement was reached that AWSA would not incur
debts without IDA's consent unless net income before interest and depreciation
is at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service in any future year.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues discussed in
chapters II, III, IV and VI, the project is recommended for an IDA credit of
US$8.70 million to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3 pages
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
POPULATION PROJECTIONS AND WATER DEMAND
Growth of Amman
1.        Modern Amman dates back to 1878 when Circassiari refugees settled
on the ancient site of Roman Philadelphia. When the city was selected as
the capital of the newly formed State of Jordan in 1921, it had a population
of only 5,000, which increased rapidly to 10,000 in 1930 and 60,000 in 1945.
2.        The political events of 1948 and 1967 are the main factors under-
lying Amman's recent phenomenal growth, twice causing the city's population
to double in the last two decades:
Census Year          Population           Aniual Growth Rate
1952                  108,000                    -
1961                 246,000                    9.6%
1967                 330,000                    5.2%
1967 (estimate)      430,000                     -
1971 /1              521,000                    5.0%
/1 The 1971 census was made by Amman Municipality and Government statistics
Department for the purpose of the project.
3.        The annual growth rate for Amman between 1961 and 1967 was 5.2%.
An accurate figure for the annual growth rate between 1967 and 1971 is diffi-
cult to determine. The 1967 Middle East conflict resulted in an immediate in-
flux of about 100,000 1/ refugees into the city, which since then has in-
creased its population at an annual rate of about 5.0%.
4.        VBB has prepared the following three population projections for
Amman based on the Department of Statistics' natural growth forecasts for
Jordan of 2.94% for the years 1970-1980 and 3.61% for the years 1980-1985.
Low-level        Design-level      High-level
Year      Proj ection       Projection        Proj ection
1971        521,000            521,000           521,000
1972        540,000            550,000         - 550,000
1977        640,000            690,000           710,000
1982        760,000            850,000           910,000
1987        900,000          1,000,000         1,200,000
2002      1,400,000          1,700,000         2,300,000
1/ Estimated by UNRWA and Amman Municipality.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
The "design level" forecasts for Amman assume a natural growth rate of 3%
a year and normal immigration of 2% a year, giving a total annual growth
rate of 5%. This rate is assumed to gradually reduce to 3% a year toward
the end of the century, initially from decreasing immigration as a result
of the Government's resettlement policies, and subsequently from decreasing
birth rates resulting from family planning. The "high-level" projection
assumes a growth rate of 5.2% a year (the rate for 1961-1967) for the first
15 years, decreasing to 4.7% a year toward the end of the century. The
"low-level" projection assumes a growth rate of 3.5% a year initially,
decreasing to 3% a year toward the end of the century.
5.        The mission believes that VBB's assumption of growth rates for the
"design level" projection is reasonable and compares favorably with the
growth rates experienced by the city during periods of normal migration (1961
to May 1967 and late 1967 to 1971).
6.        The municipal boundaries of Amman have expanded over the years.
Within the present boundaries are two refugee camps established before 1965
and administered by UNRWA. No refugee camps were establislhed in 1967 and
newcomers are believed to have settled with relatives and friends. The re-
sident population of Amman within the present city limits is projected to
be 850,000 by 1982, and the project was designed accordingly.
Population Connected
7.        According to a UN survey in 1966, about 82% of all dwellings in
Amman had potable water inside. No study has since been carried out on this
matter. There are very few private water supplies in Amman. The residents
of Amman who are not connected to the distribution network, or for some reason
do not get sufficient supply, have to get their water from municipal or private
lories or directly from private wells. The amount of water delivered by
tankers during the past two years was insignificant -- 15,000m3 in 1970 and
63,000m3 in 1971.
8.        VBB determined the percentage of population connected from
Department of Statistics data showing 1.9 families per dwelling and 6.5
persons per family, and from the Water Department's record of 32,000 house
connections for 1971. Accordingly, the population connected was estimated
to be 390,000, which is about 75% of Amman's 1971 population. This percent-
age is lower than the one reported in the 1966 UN survey; however, expansion
of the refugee camps and the presence of several uncontrolled settlements
of refugees within Amman make it difficult to compare the two figures.
Water Consumption
9.        The water consumption in Amman consists mainly of domestic con-
sumption, which includes consumption in the refugee camps, army camps and



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
commercial establishments such as hotels and restaurants. There is no
significant industrial consumption within the city. Mlunicipal consumption
for street cleaning, sewer flushing, fire fighting, etc., is very limited.
10.       During the past decade water production in Amnan increased at an
average rate of about 13% per year. Unaccounted-for water has also in-
creased during the decade from 42% to 60% and is expected to be around 64%
in 1972. Water consumption, assumed equal to water sales, was an average
of 33 lpcd with little variation during the past decade (Annex 3). This is
very low compared with some other countries in the region (e.g., Damascus
with 112 lpcd and Istanbul with 93 lped). In 1972, with the increased sup-
ply due to the commissioning of the Ras el Ain pumping station and several
new boreholes, consumption is expected to rise to over 34 lpcd.
11.       Assuming a connected population of 390,000 (para. 8 above) for
1971 and a total accounted-for consumption of 5.7 million m3, VBB has cal-
culated the per capita consumption to be about 40 lpcd. This approach for
determining the consumption of the connected population in Amman is justifi-
able, since most of the unconnected population receive their water supply
from public taps, tankers and private water sources.
Future Water Demand
12.       With a raised standard of living and the expected improvement of
water metering and water availability, measured consumption per capita
should be steadily increasing. An annual increase of 2 lpcd from 1974 is
reasonable. Reduction of unaccounted-for water should be given top prior-
ity; a 4% annual reduction in the 1972 high percentage (64%) is possible.
Accordingly, estimated future water demand in Amman for 1977 and 1982 is
shown below.
Population                           Unaccounted-
total   connected   Water Consum tion    for water  Total water demand
Year   (1000)        %      lpcd   10OOm /yr          %           1000m3/yr
1971     521        75       40        5,689         60             14,300
1972     550        78       44        6,900         64             19,000
1977     690        85       52       11,000         44             20,000
1982     850        88       62       17,000         24             23,000






JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - 1!
POPULATION, WATER SALE AND WATER PRODUCTION PROJECTIONS
24                                                                                                                  o0
22 
20          C apacity of Present System                                            % Le
18 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
16  -1000
c
t; "                             Annual Water Production                                   Annual Water Sale
'O-                          ~~~~~~~Left SaeLeft Scale                                                                                        :
9   14                                    9Scal
r
L) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~I
12                                                                                              G.                                               2800
c   10                     68                                                748
<    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~70                                                      0
|            Agtual-               b | Z -                                     Estimateation 
Worl Bank-7159600
0
6                                                            Cess500
4                                                                                                                                                400
2                                                                                                                                                 0
66      67      68       69      70       71     72      73       74       75      76       77     78       79      80       81       82
1-4             ~~Aqtual               -1 :                                        Estimated                                          -4 
World Bank-7159






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5 pages
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
EXISTING FACILITIES - WATER SUPPLY
Water Production
1.        Amman's water supply is based on groundwater from two aquifers,
one overlapping the other. The upper aquifer is the Amman-Wadi Sir forma-
tion, the lower one the Hummar formation. The Auman-Wadi Sir system is
the country's most important aquifer; according to a Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) report, 1/ it has a total direct rechaLrge of 312 million
m3/year and a further indirect recharge of 23 million m3/year. However,
only about 10% flows eastward to the Amman area, of whichi around 6 million
m3/year percolates into the Hummar system. Present wLthdlrawal from these
two aquifers is estimated by NRA to be 16 and 6 million B13/year, respec-
tively; this means that no more water can be taken from the Huimar system.
2.        Wells varying in depth from 50 to 450 meters penetrate the two
aquifers. Those belonging to Amman Municipality and their yield, based on
NRA estimates of safe yield, are summarized below.
Estimated yield
Existing Wells                                                1/sec.
(i) 10 wells supplying Ain Ghazal pumping
station                                       - 2/
(ii)   5 wells connected directly to the dis-
tribution network                            230
(iii)   2 wells supplying Ras el Ain pumping
station                                      190
(iv)   7 wells out of service                              -
(v)   5  wells under construction                        210
Amman is also supplied from springs at Ras el Ain, within the built-up area
of the city, and at Wadi Sir village, seven kilometers to the west of Amman.
In 1971 the average production of these springs was 80 l/sec and 50 1/sec,
1/   "Sandstone aquifers of East Jordan"  (FAO, 1970).
2/   Due to lack of working water meters, production in the wells connected
to the pumping station at Ain Ghazal is not known for each well but the
total production of these wells during 1971 (equal to the output from
the pumping station) was 160 1/sec on average and 210 1/sec during the
maximum month.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5 pages
In 1971 the average production of these springs was 80 1/sec and 50 1/sec,
respectively, while the maximum month figures were 101 1/sec and 70 1/sec.
Total production in 1971 for Amman was 14.3 million m , equal to an average
of about 500 1/sec.
Five private wells used for industrial and water supply purposes
are known to withdraw water from the same aquifers.  Two of these are used to
supply water via tankers to areas outside Amman where piped water supply is
not available.  Total yield of these wells is estimated by NRA to be less
than 140 1/sec.  Furthermore, NRA supplies water directly to some villages
south of Amman from two boreholes within the Amman Municipality.  A third
borehole is also under construction by NRA. The capacity of these boreholes
together is of the order of 100 1/sec.
Water Treatment
4.        The water supplied to Amman is normally of high quality from a
chemical point of view, with a low color, low content of organic matter and
low turbidity. Total dissolved solids range from 320 to 525 ppm and the
water is slightly alkaline. Recent bacteriological analyses by VBB and N'PA
indicate a possible contamination owing to the inflitration of sewage from
cesspools, etc.
5.        At the request of the Jordanian authorities, funds were provided
under Credit 18-JO for water treatment in addition to aeration and chlorination,
if required by the quality of water produced. However, it was found that
such additional treatment is not necessary and this element of the credit was
cancelled. Presently the raw water is aerated at Ain Ghazal and Ras el Ain
to release carbon dioxide. Chlorination is carried out at the pumping stations
and also at boreholes directly connected to the Amman distribution network..
A recent VBB investigation (April 1972) showed that the chlorine resildual. at
the pumping stations varied between 1.0 and 4.0 ppm. The chlorine residlial
in the distribution network was found to vary from 0 to 0.25 ppm.
Pumping Stations
6.        The topography of Amman is characterized by steep hills and deep
valleys, with elevations varying between 690 and 996 meters above sea level.
In VBB's report of 1964 on the Amman Water Supply it was proposed to divide
the distribution network into four different pressure zones to lower the
pressure in the network and reduce pumping costs. Physical separation of
:-e zones is partially completed and several temporary arrangements for
puriping have been made.
The wells and springs of Amman are, with some exceptions, connected
to three main pumping stations at Ain Ghazal, Ras el Ain and Wadi Sir. Sub-
mersible pumps in five wells pump water directly to the distribution network.
Three small booster stations lift water to the high pressure zones and to
are. s outside the city.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5 pages
Existing Pumping Station Capacities
-------Approximate capacity in 1/sec--------------
Pumping Station            Total   Zone I    Zone II    Zone III        Zone IV
Ain Ghazal
Old Station                180      -          60          120            -
New Station                320    280          40           -             -
Ras el Ain New Station       570      70        280          220            -
Wadi Sir                      50      -          -            -            50
Sub-Total           1,120    350         380          240           50
Direct from wells            230      -         230           -             -
Total               1,350    350         610          340 /1        50
/1  Two booster stations of about 30 1/sec capacity pump water from Zone
III to Zone IV and places outside Amman.
8.        The Ain Ghazal station gets water from boreholes along the Amman
Seil, the main drainage channel in the city, and from other boreholes in the
Eastern part of Amman. The collecting main is in bad condition. Water is
pumped to three distribution reservoirs via trunk mains (200-300 mm in dia-
meter) and also to Ras el Ain, via the new 600-mm trunk main, for further
distribution.
9.        The Ain Ghazal pumping station consists of an old diesel station
and an electric station, the latter completed in 1969 under Credit 18-JO.
Due to lack of maintenance and proper operation, the new electrical station
is in poor condition and has been operating on a limited scale. At present
only a few pumps from the old diesel station are still in ciperation, but
when the electrical station is fully operational the old diesel pumps could
be phased out.
10.       There are at present three pumping sets in operation at Ras el
Ain -- the old diesel station and two temporary boosters. These could be
abandoned when the new electrical pumping station is put into full operation,
which is expected soon. The new station is built in rock for greater pro-
tection against aerial attacks, and has a chlorine contact basin, an aeration
tank, a low reservoir and a pump room. Water is taken from the Ras el Ain
spring and from a reservoir fed by Ain Ghazal station and also from some wells
via the 600-mm trunk main.
11.       The Wadi Sir pumping station gets water from an adjacent well and
pumps it to the Wadi Sir Village and to Amman. The feasibility of electri-
fication of the existing diesel-driven station was studied by VBB and they
recommended that it is economical to maintain the diesel-operated pumps.
Distribution Network
12.       The old distribution system consists mainly of siteel pipes with
diameters between 75 and 200 mm. External corrosion of these pipes is ex-
tensive and a major cause of substantial leakage in the network (see para.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5 pages
16 (a) below).  Two 300-mm main feeders serving northwest Amman are laid on
the surface and subject to frequent damage. Since 1966 about 50 km of
ductile cast iron mains, ranging in dimension from 200 to 600 mm, have been
laid.
13.       There are about 34,000 water service connections, all of them
metered. The meters are owned and maintained by the consumers. Meter
installations as well as service connections are not standardized and are
mrade by contractors under supervision of the Municipality. Until recently,
service connections were either welded or directly screwed into the steel
distribution pipes and were laid without adequate cover. Such connections
are often damaged and are a further cause of the network's large water
losses. Meter repairs are also made by private contractors. The Municipal-
ity tests the meters after they have been repaired and before they are
installed.
14.       There are nine distribution reservoirs with a total capacity of
17,500 m3. All reservoirs are of reinforced-concrete construction. The
reservoirs are not maintained properly and a few are extremely dirty, not
having been cleaned for several years. Communications between the reser-
voirs and the pumping stations are almost non-existent and level recorders
are non-operative, restulting in considerable wastage through overflows. In
addition, almost every house in Amnan has a roof tank (1 to 2 m3 volume) to
balance the variations in local consumption caused by the intermittent water
supply.
Unaccounted-for Water
15.       Almost 50% of the water produced in the last ten years was un-
accounted-for. Even though some reduction of water losses has been achieved,
from' a high of 63% in 1965 to 47% in 1970, a marked increase to 60% in 1971
was reported. Water produced, water sold and the balance (unaccounted-for)
for the 10-year period 1962-71 and the estimates for 1972 are shown below.
Water
Produced     Water Sold       Water una counted-for
Y~'ear           Population    100l m3      1000m3   lpcd        1000mX
1962               260,000      5,400      3,152      33         2,248      42%
-963               274,000      5,615      3,535      35         2,080      37%
,,364              288,000     9,020       3,659      35         5,361     59%
1SjC65)            302,000    10,806       4,046      38         6,760      63%
2)66 /1              _         8,516      3,301       -         5,215      61%
330,000      9,280      4,219      35         5,061      55%
i9Jb6             456,000    10,558        5,318      31         5,240     50%
19A9               472,000    11,857       6,287      34         5,570      47%
i970               492,000    10,597       5,611      31         4,986     47%
1si1               521,000    14,260       5,860      30         8,573     60%
(estimate)   550,000    19,000        6,860      34       12,140      64%
/_ Nine months' figures.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5 pages
16.       VBB gives the following reasons for Amman's high percentage of
unaccounted-for water:
(a) Leakage
Parts of the existing water distribution network are in bad
condition. The large leakages are caused by external corro-
sion of steel pipes in the old network and the many improper
service connections all over the city. Field studies carried
out by VBB on the hydraulic properties and the extent of
water losses in different parts of the network indicate that
leakage is responsible for about 40% of the total unaccounted-
for water. Most of these leakages are located within the
central part of the city. One reason for this could be that
the zonal system is not fully implemented, giving high pres-
sures in this zone.
(b) Illegal house connections
A recent limited survey (April 1972) carried out by VBB
revealed a comparatively high number of water meters which
are not registered by the Municipality's Water Department
(12 out of 61). Although it is difficult to draw conclusions
from such a limited investigation, the existence of a sub-
stantial number of illegal connections is suspected by the
consultants and officials of the Water Department.
(c) Inaccurate water metering
A recent survey by a meter manufacturer indicated that 1971
production might have been over-estimated by 6%. However,
it is not possible to obtain accurate figures on production,
as many water meters are out of service and several boreholes
and wells do not have water meters. A test of consumer water
meters (turbine type) was carried out in June 1972 by VBB
using 32 positive displacement meters.  The consumer water
meters were found to under-estimate the flow by about 9%.
(d) Overflowing reservoirs
Because of the lack of direct communications between the
reservoirs and pumping station, the reservoirs overflow
from time to time. This means that the pumping is not
carried out in an optimal manner and that occasionally
water is pumped for hours into an overflowing reservoir
or the particular reservoir can also be empty for many
hours.
In addition, the mission found that the functions of meter reading, prepa-
ration of bills and collection of money are not clearly separated under the
present management system. With hardly any check on the work of the meter
readers, the possibility of under-registration must be assumed.






ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2 pages
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
EXISTING FACILITIES - SEWERAGE
1.        The present predominant method of sewage disposal in Amman is to
let the sewage percolate into the ground through a cesspool -- i.e., a con-
crete or rock tank with open bottom. Usually a building has its own cess-
pool; however, some large buildings do have more than one cesspool while
other small houses in areas of less space share a cesspool. For the camps
at Hussein and Wahdat, IUNRWA has provided and is in charge of public latrines
and cesspools at public installations such as schools and clinics. In
addition, 5,600 family latrines within these camps serve a population of
about 72,000 refugees.
2.        Construction of a sewerage system for Amman started in 1963 and
was completed around 1969. It comprises 38 km of main sanitary sewers, 17 km
of storm-water sewers and culverts, and a sewage treatment plant. The second-
ary system of sanitary and storm-water sewers covering the city's central
section and three main hills or Jabels (Jabel Amman, Jabel Webdeh and
Jabel Hussein) is under construction. In addition, a sewer line serving
Jordan University, about 4 km northwest of Amman, and the Amman Grand Hospital,
enroute, has been built recently.
3.        The sewage treatment plant and trunk sewers are still very much
under-utilized. The number of premises connected to the sewer network is
small. By the end of 1972 there will be only about 1,500 sewer service
connections. The reasons for the slow rate of connections are the high
cost of construction (due to the use of large-diameter pipes and provision
of an excessive number of manholes); the requirement for all Municipal
back taxes to be paid before a connection permit is issued; the voluntary
nature of the program; and the political unrest that foLlowed the 1967 war.
In recent months, construction methods resulting in substantially lower
costs have been adopted. Furthermore, the newly enacted sewerage law will
eliminate the requirement for payment of back taxes and will make house
connections compulsory within specified areas. These new developments sub-
stantiate projections of future connections at a rate oif 2,000 per year.
4.        The condition of the sewer network is good.  However, as several
lines presently receive only small quantities of sewage, some of them need
to be cleaned. Equipment for sewer flushing has been ordered and is ex-
pected to be put to use early in 1973. At present, the conventional activated-
sludge treatment plant receives the septic contents of cesspools, discharged
by vacuum trucks into the inlet of the works, and only small quantities of
fresh sewage. No activated sludge has been formed in the aeration tank and
the final effluent has a high B.O.D. This situation has led to maintenance
and operational difficulties. The staff responsible for the sewerage facili-
ties requires training.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2 pages
5.        Storm-water is discharged into the Amman Seil or adjoining valleys.
The Seil also receives the chlorinated final effluent of the sewage treatment
plant. The possibility of using the effluent for crop irrigation and the
digested sludge for soil conditioning is under consideration.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6 pages
JORDAN
AM4AN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
W4ATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
1.        The water supply component of the project consists of the construc-
tion of a pumping station at Tadj in east-central Amman, connection of eight
existing and two proposed new boreholes to the pumting station, trunk mains,
a booster station at Smisani, a new reservoir for northwest Amman, and water
distribution extensions and replacements in priority areas of the city, in-
cluding service connections and meters. Improvement of the existing sub-
mersible pumping installations, additional pumps for the Ras el Ain pumping
station, improvement of communications between key reservoirs and pumping
stations, and provisions for hydrological equipment and for leakage surveys
are also included, as well as an office building for AWSA, garage, store and
meter repair shop.
2.        In general, the project elements are designed to meet water demand
in 1982. The existing water production facilities would be adequate to meet
demand in 1977 if the percentage of unaccounted-for water can be brought down
to projected levels. The two new boreholes should then provide for the in-
creasing demand up to 1982. The water supply and sewer networks are part of
a master plan being prepared by VBB to meet the city's needs in the year 2002.
The major elements of the water supply component are desc:ribed below.
Tadj Pumping Station
3.        The new pumping station at Tadl was recommended by VBB after a
detailed study of water demand and future population distribution of various
sections of the city, coupled with an optimum solution for collecting and
transmitting water from the existing and proposed boreholes. The study
indicated that the most economic alternative would be to construct a new
pumping station at Tadj, close to most of the boreholes. The demand pro-
jections indicated that over the next decade the increased water demand
would be mostly in Pressure Zone IV (northwest and north Amman), with some
increase in the areas covered by Pressure Zones IT and I'I. Tadi pumping
station would provide most of this increased demand. As the case in the
existing pumping stations, the station would be provided with aeration and
chlorination facilities.
Collecting Pipelines and Wells
4.        Collector pipelines, with diameters ranging from 200 to 500 mm,
would convey water from seven existing boreholes and one proposed borehole
to a 600-mm main collector leading to the Tadj station. Another collector
pipeline would similarly connect an existing borehole and another proposed



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6 pages
one. The total length of the collector pipelines would be about 4 km. An
existing collector pipeline, presently connected to Ain Ghazal pumping
station, would become redundant and be salvaged by AWSA. More boreholes
are planned for future construction near the Tadj station. When the project
4s completed, the three major pumping stations will receive an additional
280 1/sec from boreholes under constrlction and the proposed new ones, as
follows:
1/sec
(i)  Two boreholes under construction at
Rossaife to be connected to Ain Ghazal
pumping stations                           140
(ii)  One existing borehole to be connected
to Tadj pumping station                     40
(iii)  Two proposed boreholes to be connected
to Tadj pumping station                    100
280
Smisani Booster Station
5.        To meet future demand in Zone IV, water would be pumped northwest
from the Tadj station to the existing Smisani reservoir. A new booster
station at the rese5voir would lift the water to a new reservoir with a
capacity of 4,000 m . This station would also supply a limited quantity to
areas on the northwest of Amman, outside its boundaries.
Pumps
6.        New submersible pumps are required for four of the boreholes that
would then be serving Tadj pumping station through the collector pipelines.
As the boreholes have varying yields and an increased draw-down during the
drv season, the capacities of the pumps would he determined at the time of
detailed design.
7.        Preliminary designs for the TadJ station to meet demand up to about
1982 indicate the need for the following pumns:
Capacity        Head
Pumps                  1/sec         meters         Zone
2 duty, 1 standby           140           140        III and IV
1 duty, 1 standby            80           140       III and IV
1 duty,                      80           140        III and IV
1 duty, 1 standby            30            55        II



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6 pages
The second duty pump of 80 1/sec for Zones III and IV would not be required
until 1978 and is not included in the project. Additional pumps at the
Ras el Ain station, similar to the existing pumps for Zones TI and ITT, would
supplement the supply to these zones.
8.        There would be two groups of pumps at the proposed booster station
at Smisani reservoir, as follows:
Capacity         Head
Pumps                1/sec         meters         Zone
2 duty, 1 standby           140            100          IV
1 duty, 1 standby            15           150       Outside Amman
Additional pumps would be needed in 1978 as the demand in Zone IV increases.
Trunk Mains
9.        A 500-mm diameter trunk main, decreasing to 400-mm diameter, of
approximately 6.9 km would convey water from the Tadj station to the Smisani
booster station. A short, 700-meter take-off distribution pipeline (300 mm
in diameter) is also provided. From Smisani booster station a 400-mm diame-
ter pipeline of about 2.9 km would serve the proposed 4,000 m3 capacity re-
servoir to service Zone IV.
10.       A second trunk main about 2.6 km long and 400 mm in diameter, de-
creasing to 250 mm diameter, would convey water from the Tadj station to
Ashrafia reservoir and Zone III.
11.       A third trunk main, 300 mm in diameter and about 1.4 km long,
would convey water from the Tadi station to Jofa reservoir. This would pro-
vide operational flexibility against any failure of the Ras el Ain spring
or the Racing Club well now serving Zone II in the central and eastern
sections of Amman.
Service Reservoir
12.       The existing service reservoir for Zone IV is located to the west
of the city, making it unsuitable for meeting demand in north and northwest
Amman. The proposed 4,000 m3 capacity reservoir is sited to the northwest
and is adequate to meet demand to about 1987. The existing and proposed
reservoir capacities in the Amman water system are as follows:
Pressure Zone         Existing       Proposed            Total
--cubic meters-------------
I                  4,000                           4,000
II                  4,910                           4,910
III                  7,900            -              7,900
IV                    620          4,000            4,620



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6 pages
The top water level of the proposed reservoir would be +996.3 meters, similar
to the existing reservoirs. At present an in-line booster serves a small
area above this elevation and this supply would be retained. The proposed
reservoir would be of reinforced-concrete construction, with pre-stressed
concrete construction as a possible alternative.
13.       An improved communications system between reservoirs and pumping
stations is included to ensure better coordination and more economical pump-
ing.
Distribution Network
14.       Some 78 km of pipes, ranging in diameter from 80 mm to 300 mm, are
included in the project to provide for extensions to the high-growth areas
such as Zone IV and the replacement of old leaky pipes and service connec-
tions. These include areas within Nuzha, Nazal and Smisani. There is also
a provision for replacing a 300 mm main in the city's congested center if the
leak detection survey indicates that this is warranted. For the purpose of
preparing cost estimates, all pipes included in the project are assumed to
be ductile iron, the predominant pipe material now used in Amman.
Borehole Improvements
15.       As most of the borehole installations are in the open, with little
security and a potential for contamination, the project provides for improve-
ments, including replacement of worn-out or unsuitable equipment, and for
chlorinators and bulk water meters, as needed.
Leakage Survey and Repair
16.       The project has a provision for engaging a specialized firm to under-
take a leak detection survey, mapping of leaks, and preparation of a repair
or replacement program. The replacement of corroded pipes and repair of major
leaks would be done by contractors, while minor repair work would be done by
AWSA staff with pipes and fittings presently in the inventory or those provided
under the project. Leak-detection equipment for AWSA to continue the detec-
tion and repair work is also included.
House Connections and Water Meters
17.       As AWSA is expected to assume ownership of the system's water meters,
some unserviceable meters and leaking house connection would require repair or
replacement. 1Water meters and materials for new service connections would be
required during the 1973-76 project period. All these requirements are in-
cluded in the project and summarized below.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6 pages
Project     Other      Total
Area       Areas    Number
1.   Replacement of house
connections (excluding
water meters)              1,600         200      1,800
2.   Replacement of water
meters only                1,000         600      1,600
3.   New house connections
(including water meters)  5,500        5,000    10,500
18.       AWSA would be responsible for the work outside ithe project area
for which materials would be procured under the project.
Hydrological Equipment
19.       On NRA's recommendation and in order to obtain reliable hydrolog-
ical data for future projects, a lump sum of JD 5,000 is included for hydro-
logical equipment. The equipment would be specified by NRA and when pro-
cured would be installed under NRA's supervision in the Abdoun catchment on
the western outskirts of the city. NRA would be responsible for collecting
the data and making it available to AWSA for analysis and use in system
planning.
Office, Garage, Store and Meter Repair Shop
20.       No office building is available for AWSA as yet and suitable rented
accommodations in Amman would be uneconomical. Nor is there a meter repair
shop, which would be an important facility when AWSA assumes ownership of
the water meters. Therefore, the project provides for construction of an
office building, with a small garage, store and meter repair shop.
Land
21.       Land owned by Amman Municipality would be transferred to AWSA for
the Smisani booster station and for AWSA's office building, garage, store
and meter repair shop. Land would also have to be acqulired for the Tadj
ptumping station and the new reservoir. Suitable sites for the former are
available and the costs are included in the project. The trunk mains are
mainly on roads and no difficulty is anticipated in obtaining wayleaves
wherever private property has to be crossed.
SEWERAGE COMPONENT
22.       The sewerage extension program for Amman is in three parts and aims
to achieve the maximum number of sewerage service connections, as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6 pages
200 mm   150 mm  Sewerage Service
-----meters----      Connections
I.   Sewer Extensions in New Areas
City's Center, Wadi Haddada, Naur,
Qusor, Nadif,I Massarweh, Mahata,
Wadi Surour, parts of Hashemi,
Tadj, Jofa and Ashrafia              17,000    53,000         7,500
II.   Sewers at Road Crossings
Mahata Road, Khalid Ben Walid
Street, Madaba Road, Naur Road,
Wadi Sakkrat Road, Salt Road,
Wasfi-el-Tal Street and Prince
Mohammed Street                                 7,000           850
III.   Sewers to Complete Ongoing Program
Jabel Amman, Jabel Hussein and
Jabel Webdeh                      8____                         850
17,000     68,000         9,200
23.       The sewerage extension program is limited by AWSA's capacity to
execute new service connections, presently projected to 2,000 per year.
Areas where there is a potentiality of contamination of Amman's groundwater
sources were selected for execution during the project period.
24.       Included in the project area a 2-km main sewer (500 mm in diameter)
and about 25 km of 100 mm and 150 mm diameter sewers for making the sewerage
service connections. A lump sum of JD 15,000 is included for the repair
and replacement of leaking or corroded water pipes encountered in excavations
when laying the sewers. Another small lump sum of JD 4,200 is included for
improvements at the sewage treatment plant.
Aqaba DeveloPment Studies
25.       The Aqaba development studies component of the project comprises
the review of existing studies, surveys, plans, etc. for basic infrastructure
development for the town of Aqaba and for the surrounding region, taking into
account the likely development of industry, including a proposed free industrial
and commercial zone, transport and tourism in the area; and making recommen-
dations for the devclopment of roads, water, sewerage, and electric power in
the area. The studies would also elaborate on the existing Aqaba Tourism
Development Plan by (i) reintegrating into said plan some essential works
including recreational facilities, (ii) adding a hotel training center; and
(iii) undertaking new studies to revise, up-date and complement the existing
pli  and studies.



ANNEX 6
AGUN WATMR SUPPLY AnD SEWERAGE PROSCT - II
COST l TIMT  oF THE PROJCT
------------------------------Cost Estimate.---- --------------- -----                  Prposed Alocation of IDA Credit--
Local       Porei6n        Tbtdl           Loce;l       roreign        Tota].         PerecntaSe        Amunt         Amoant
---T  (oco)-----------JS$ ----------us (000)--__------                                   bai           JD (000)      us$ (000
WATER SUPPLY
(a)  CIVIL WORKS
Pumping stations                       36            42            78             112           131          24%                 60             47           3146
Service reservoir                      16            16            32              5            50          100                 60             19            59
Network extension and
replacement                        143            96          239              445           299          744                 60            144           448
Water. meter.  and house
Ico nectiona                         9             6           15               28            19           47'                60              9            28
Devel,pment and imrovement
of borehole.                        23            24           47               n            75           146                 60             28            87
Leak survey                             2            22            24               6            68           74                 60             15            47
Office bidg., meter repair
shop, etc.                          42            65          107              131          201           33                  60             64          199
Sub-total, Civil Works                271           21           542              843           843        1,686                               326         1,014
(b)  EQU1PMENT SUPPLY
.umping stations                       -            214          214               -            666          666                100            214           666
Network extension and
replacement                         60           534          594              187        1,661         1,848                100            t94        1,84P.
Water meters and house
connections                         14           132          146               44          411           455                100            146           455
Development and improvement
of boreholes                        -             48           48               -           149           149                100             48           149
Leak survey nd hydrological
equipment                         _               20           20               -            62            62                100             20            62
Sub-total, Equipment                   74           948        1,022              231         2,949        3,180                             1,022         3,180
Total Water Supply                    345         1.29         1.564            1.074        3,792         4.866                             1.348         4194
IRWERAgE
(a) CIVIL WORKS
Sever extensions                      510           44o          950            1,587        1,369         2,956                 60            570         1,773
Plant improvemente                      2             2             4               6             6           12                 60              3             9
Total Severage                        512           442                         1.593
.AND AUISITroN                                 46           -             46             143            _            143                                -            -
CONSuLTING SEvICES
Engineering                            85           233          318              264          75            929                  p
Training                               12            58           70               37          1             217                 880            5
f:ONTINGFNCIES
Physical-witer aupply (15%)            52           183           235             162           569          731                 75            180           560
PhysLcal-sewerage (10%)                 51           44            95             159           137          296                 75             70           217
Price (7% per annum)                   93           192          285              289           598      -                       75            216           672
-OTAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE             1.196         2,371        3,567            3,721         7.376       11,097                 75             78         8
AQABA DEVELOPMOST STUDIES                       26          119           145              80           570           450               100            119           370
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           1,222        2,490         3,712            3,801        7,746        11,547                75          2,797         8,700
1/ 100% of foreign exchange costs.
April 9, 19?3






JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - 11
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
PROJECT COMPONENTS                          1973      J                                        1975                          1976
WATER SUPPLY
PUMPING STATIONS:
PUMPS AND EQUIPMENT                                                                             I talla Utin
CIVIL WORKS                                         JLE    I nn         1- 1 1        1EI a        onstruction
WELLS:                                                                          IIN
DRILLIN                                                      CoGnstruction
COLLECTORS                             ~                                ,Cnstructioni
PUMPS AND EQUIPMENT                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nstallation
IMPROVEMENTS                                          ulul]  I                             |1IT
WATER PIPES: _
SUPPLY OF WATER PIPES& ACCESSORIES              RIUAmR   III                              FORC  AO I          LOA C
PIPE LAYING              71'          &       I                        I I         I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cIons.truction
NETWVORK DESIGN                                                                   I                                 U       Emmm
I                  ~~~~~~~~Construction and InstaLllaionl
HOUSE CONNECTIONS         ISA TO                                                                           C u C  _______                  U I  B
RESERVOIR                                                      Iu i4    iB
LEAK DETECTION AND HYDROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT              IN      I 111111S11                                               Spi
WATER METERS                                         IEhJ I~             ElEn                                   EME         Sup IV E~LEE            E
METER SHOP, STORE AND GARAGE                                                   nstruc tion
OFFICE                                                                                IIConstruction
SUPPLY OF SEWER PIPES & ACCESSORIES                                                         SupIpFly     EEEE     IEI EE       l
SEWERS iN iNEW AREAS                                              I I ~~~~~~~~~~~Construction   E
SEWERS IN ROAD CROSSINGS                         Li 91 Lul                       ornstrucion~                             
EE  Construction
SEWERS IN ONGOING PROGRAMUU EE    4                                                   g
EE   ~~Contutonstuto
TREATMENT PLANT IMPROVEMENTS                                    ri~'i 
ACTIVITY
m  -        -  DESIGN                                                       --          GROUPED INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING CONTRACTS
uulmuumulolmmmuu   TENDERING                                                            INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING CONTRACTS                               -
~~~ ~~MOBILIZATION OR MANUFACTURE                                                   FORCE ACCOUNT OR LOCAL CONTRACTS
SUPPLY, INSTALLATION OR CONSTRUCTION                    - -----PRINCIPAL INTERCONNECTIONS BETWEEN ACTIVITIES
World Bank - 7158(2R)






ANNEX 8
Fage 1 of 1 page
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD/IDA Fiscal                                   Cumulative Disbursement
Year and Quarter                                     at end of Quarter
US$ (000)
1974
1st quarter ending September  30, 1973                    300
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1973                      goo
3rd quarter ending March 31, 1974                       1,500
)th quarter ending June 30, 1974                        2,200
1975
1st quarter ending September 30, 1974                   3,200
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1974                    4,200
3rd quarter ending March 31, 1975                       5,100
4th quarter ending June 30, 1975                        6,000
1976
1st quarter ending September 30, 1975                   6,4OO
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1975                     6,80o
3rd quarter ending March 31, 1976                        7,200
4th quarter ending June 30, 1976                         7,600
1977
1st quarter ending September 30, 1976                    8,200
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1976                     8,700






JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - 11
ORGANIZATION CHART OF AMMAN WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS    1
GENERAL MANAGER
ADMINISTRATION             FINANCE              WATER OPERATIONS          WOPERATI                 ENGINNEERING
ADM. MANAGER    J    FINANCE MANAGER             CHIEF ENGINEER          CHIEF ENGINEER           CHIEF ENGINEER
PERSONNEL AND  1           FINANCIAL              DISTRIBUTION                            1        DEVELOPMENT
STAFF RELATIONS  |          ACCOUNTS                 NETWORK             TREATMENT PLANT             & PLANNING
COSTING &     IMAINTENANCENEWOK
OFFICE SERVICES           BUDGETING      I      PUMPING STATIONS                          j        CONSTRUCTION
_____                         J~~~BUGEIN                               NETWORK               & SUPERVIS IONJ
PROCUREMENT              CONSUMER               MAINTENANCE C                                        MAJOR
&SUPPLY              RELATIONS              LEAK DETECTION                                    MAINTENANCE
& BILLING                            ]PLANNING
METER SHOP
World Bank-7289






UNNEX 10
Page 1 of 1 page
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
EXISTING LONG-TERM DEBT CF WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICES
Year of            Rate of   Total    Estimated Amount
Loan       Period  Interest  Amount   Outstanding
Lender      Agreement Years       %      of Loan  On Dec. 31, 1972
WATER
IDA                1961       20      4-.      535.6           401.7
Municipal Loan
Fund               1967       10      5.0       40.0            24.0
it                 1967       10      5.0       50.0            30.0
it        "1967               10      5.5       70.0           h9.0
is        "1968               10      5.5      245.0           147.0
1969       10      5.5       50.0           35.0
1970       10      5.5      100.0            80.0
1970       10      5.5       50.0            45.0
1971       10      5.5      100.0            90.0
1971       10      5.5      150.0          135.0
Jordan National
Bank               1972        4      7.0       150.0          150.0
Estimated further borrowing in 1972                            100.0
Total Water                                        1,286.7
SEWERAGE (INCLUDING STORM-WATER DRAINAGE)
Arab Bank          1967        6      6.5       150.0           45.0
Government of
Jordan 1/          1966       10       -     1,500.0         1,500.0
"i            1967       10       -     1,000.0         1,000.0
Total Sewerage                                       2,5t5.0
1/ According to an agreement between the Government and the Municipality of
Amma4 repayment of these loans commences in October 1976 and October
1977. It was assumed that the loans will be converted into Government
equity; therefore, the debt service projections do not include any
repayment of these loans.






ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4 pages
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
JUSTIFICATION OF PROPOSED PROJECT
Water Supply
1.        The 1967 influx of refugees into Amman -- estimated at over 100,000
persons, mostly families with many young children -- upselt the demand projec-
tions made in 1961 for the first water supply project appraisal. A water
crisis in 1970 was averted by drilling about 10 new boreholes and making emerg-
ency connections to the network. The proposed proJect is essential to re-
gularize the action taken during the emergency, reduce the water losses and
unaccounted-for consumption, and exDand the distribution networks to service
northwest Amman.
2.        During the past decade, water production in Amman has been increas-
ing at an average rate of 13% per year, mostly for domestic consumption with
some consumption by the Municipality and an insignificant industrial consump-
tion. This rapid growth is attributable mainly to increased water losses,
natural population growth and the influx of refugees in 1967. The percent-
age of unaccounted-for water is expected to be reduced gradually, from the
1972 level of 64% to 24% by 1982 as a result of AWSA's proposed program for
a leak detection survey, repairs, and replacements, installation of produc-
tion and domestic meters, and improvement in the billing system. Future
population projections assume a natural population growth of 3% per year and
normal immigration of 2% per year; giving a total annual growth of 5%,
gradually decreasing to 3% toward the end of the century. Per capita con-
sumption is only about 40 lpcd at present, although most houses have metered
water connections and there are few public standpipes.  In the forecast of
consumption it has been assumed that increases in consumption will parallel
population growth, plus an increase in measured per capita consumption of 2
lpcd per year to account In part for the improvement in metering and billing.
It is also assumed that there will be no significant increase in industrial
consumption. The demand projections are realistic. If demand were to increase
more rapidly than projected, the purchase of additional pumps could be
advanced as needed.
3.        The main elements of the water supply component are the construction
of facilities to supply northwest Amman (Zone IV). VBB compared the
alternatives of extending the existing collection and pumping facilities
with the construction of a new pumping station. At discount rates of 8%,
10% and 15%, a new pumping station was more economical. No shadow pricing
was used; there is full employment in the construction industry and the
foreign exchange rate of the Jordanian Dinar is stable.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4 pages
4.        The measurable benefits from the water supply component will come
from the sale of additional and safer water at the projected water rates.
The projected rates are in real terms considerably lower than prices consumers
were willing to pay in 1961 (date of the last rate increase). The project's
;-ater supply investment, using incremental revenues as benefits, 1/ would yield
an economic rate of return of at least 10.1% (Table A). If the benefits
decreased by 25%, the economic rate of return would be at least 7.6%.
^ev erage
The new activated-sludge treatment plant, designed to treat 60,000
m3/day of domestic sewage, currently receives abouit 2,000 m3/dav of sewage
and septic tank wastes. Thus far activated sludge has not formed in the plant.
Construction of the project's sewerage component, which would increase the
number of sewerage service connections, will provide adequate flow for the
plant's proper operation. The areas selected for seier extensions are those
which have the worst sanitary conditions and are a potential danger to the
water supply sources. House connections to existing laterals will also be
provided.
6.        An economic rate of return for sewerage was not calculated as the
major environmental and public health benefits are difficult to quantify.
7.        The sewerage component is the least-coqt solution for providing
adequate sanitary conditions in Amman. The only alternative is to construct
and maintain individual cesspools.  It is estimated that half of the new
residential buildings to be constructed in the next ten years will be sited
in areas sewered by the project's facilities. At present, about 1,000 new
residential buildings are constructed in Amman every year. The construction
cost of a cesspool for a one-family residence is JD 150 and for a six-family
building JD 700. The residential buildings in Amman consist of between three-
and four-family units on average. The cost of construction of a cesspool for
this size building is estimated at ID 400. To provide acceptable sanitary
conditions in Amman, where the soil has low percolation capacity (mostly rock),
the cesspool operating costs per installation would 'be JD 11.0 per year.
S.        The sewerage component is the least-cost solution at discount rates
up to 23.7%. Details are given in Table B of this Annex. If the costs of
the cesspool alternative wete 25% lower than estimated, the proposed solu-
tion would be the most economical alternative at discount rates up to 10.8%.
Berefits of the proposed sewerage component that were not quantified include
improvement of general sanitary conditions in Amman, more efficient opera-
tion of the existinq treatment facilities, higher auality sewerage effluent
di,sclarged into thie Amman Seil, and associated ecological and health benefits.
1/  hEstimated revenues resulting from improved billing and reduction in
thie number of illegal connections were excluded from benefits as
they are a mere transfer of benefits from consummers to the authority.



AINEX 11
Page 3 of 4 pages
TABLE A
INCREKENTAL ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
OF THE WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
Construction                       Net
Costs                       Benefits
Year                      JD (000)
1973                            447                         11
1974                          1,005                          14
1975                            650                          37
1976                            225                         56
1977                            100                        139
1978                            100                        205
1979                            100                         274
1980                            100                         345
1981-2002                                                   345
Minimum economic rate of return = 10.1%



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4 pages
TABLE B
COMPARATIVE COST STATEMENT OF SEWERAGE
DISPOSAL SYSTEM
--------Proposed System --------    -----Alternative System----
Incremental           Cesspool
Construction Operating   Total      Clearing  Building   Total
Year       Costs        Costs     Costs      Costs    Costs         Costs
________--_______------  JD 00- _---------------------------
1973          457.9         34.3      492.2       28.6     200.0      228.6
197h          463.5         h2.1     505.6        46.2     200.0      2b6.2
1975          190.9         50.1     241.0        68.2     200.0      268.2
1976          100.0         56.0     156.0        90.2     200.0      290.2
1977          100.0         61.1     161.1       112.2     200.0      312.2
1978          100.0         66.3     166.3       13h.2     200.0      33h.2
1979          100.0         71.6     177.6       156.2     200.0      356.2
1980          100.0         77.2     177.2       178.2     200.0      378.2
1981          100.0         77.2     177.2       200.2     200.0      400.2
1962          100.0         77.2     177.2       222.0     200.0      422.0
1983-2002        -          77.2      .77.2      220.0        -       222.0
Discount rate which equates costs, 23.7%.



JORDAN
Annerx 12
AWA2f WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJET - II
ESTIMATED ncC8(E AND EXPENDITURE STAT=3ITS/WATZR' EUPPLY
Latest
----Actual ------    Estitat&   ------------------------------------Projections------------------------------------
Year ending December 31                    1970       1971       1972       1973       1974      1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
Water prcoduction m 000                   10,597     14,260     19,000     19,000     19,000     19,000     19,500    19,800     20,100     20,500     21,000
Water sates 3 000                          5,611      5,687      6,860      7,540      8,340      9,200     10,130    11,050     12,050     13,120     14,250
water u naccounted for                      47         60         64         60         56         52        48         44         40         36         32
Total population 000                         492        521        547        574        601       630        659        688        718        749        781
7. population connected                      -           75         78         82         83        83         84         85         86         86         86
Consumpti.on of population connected lped    -           40         44         44        46         48         50         52         54         56         58
No. of wilter connections                 30,414     31,996     34,000     36,500     39,000     41,500    44,000     46,500     49,000     51,500     54,000
Average rate filsl/3 /                        62         63         63         73         73         73        73         83         83         83         83
E8VENUE                                           --------------------------  -      ------  -Jtt 000-------------------------------2PJE
Water tales                                350.3      357.6      432.2      550.0     609.0      672.0      739.0      917.0   1,000.0   1,089.0   1,183.0
Other revenue                                6.2       26.2       40.0       10 .0      40.0        .        4          140.0      40.0 440.0 440.0
TOTAL                                 356.5      383.8      472.2      59.       64         712,0      77S        S57.0  1Ol.OO   1.129.0   1.223.0
OPEATINO COSTS
Selaries end wages                          84.6      104.5      120.0      149.6     154.1      158.7      163.4      168.4      173.4      178.6      184.0
Power snd fuel                              89.4      108.9      145.0      153.5     158.1      162.8      172.1      178.2      186.3      195.6      206.2
Chemicals                                    6.6        4.3        5-.        5.2       5.4        5.6        5.9        6.2        6.5        6.8        7.2
Materials for maintenance                   29.1       33.5       36.7       41.0      48.7       61.1       78.7       82.2       83.7       86.7       91.2
Other empensea                              17.9       21,2       18.0       25.0      27.5       33                    36.6       40.3       44.3          7
TOTAL                                 227.6      272.4      324.7      374.3     393.8      1jl8.5     453.4     147.6       490.2      512.0      537.3
Surplus before depreciation & interest     128.9      111.4      147.5      215.7     255.2      253.51     325.6      485.4      549.8      617.0      685.7
Deprecistion                                73.8       76.6       94.3       90.1     107.0      134.3      173.1      180.7      184.0      190.6      200.5
TOTAL OPERATINO tOSTS                 301.4      349.0      419.0      464.4     Soo.8      552.8      626.5      652.3      674.2      702.6      737.8
Surplus before interest                     55.1       34.8       53.2      125.6      148.2     159.2      152.5      304.7      365.8      426.4      485.2
NON-OPIATINO  DINSES
Interest, (Net)                             31.4       41.5       58.7       63.3      55.1        47.0      38.8       60.7      173.0      165.7      160.0
Non-operating receipta                    tL0.0)      (28.1)     (20.0)                        -          - _  _
TOI'AL NDN-OPERPATING V8SB             21.4       13.4       38.7       63.3      55.1       47.0       38.8        9.       173.0 A               160.
met Surplua                                 33.7       21.4       14.5       62.3      93.1      112.2      113.7      1240       1920       260, 7     325.2
Average ret value of fited aseets        2,097      2,428      2,511      2,567     3,139      4,020      4,747      4,913      4,831      4,793      4,898
in opoiration
Rate Of Return On M*erage Net FPied Assets   2.6%      1.4%       2.1%       4.9%.:    4.7%       4.0%       3.2%       6.2%       7.6%       8.9%       9.9%
Operating ratio After depreciation         85.0%      91.0%      89.0%      79.0%      77.0%     78.0%      8D.0%      68.0%      65.0%      62.0%      60.0%
71-i/S11 7quantitles of vater are sold to institutions at discount rates.
April 9, 1973






iORDAN
AMWAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAG4 PROJECT - II                                      Annex 13
ESTIMATl;D INCOME AND EXPElDITURE STATD4ENT/SEWERAGE (INCLUDIIIG STORM-WATER DRAINAGE)
ApproximteI       Latest
Ycdr ending Decerber 31                             1--0       1971       19-72     1973 1__4             _75L    1976          1977      1978      1979      1980
To,al no. of aewered oonnections                      73        483      1,500      3,100      4,700     6,700      8,700     10,700    12,700    14,700    16,700
Average annual water conaunption per connection m3    -         228        200        210        221        232        244        256      268        281       295
To.al water consumption m3 000                        -         110        300        651      1,038      1,554     2,123      2,739     3,404     4,133      4,926
No. of additLonal connections during the year         73        390      1,017      1.600      1,600      2,000     2,000       2,000     2,000     2,000     2,000
253p of average annual rent.1a plue of each          258        183        140         75         60         40         35         35        35        35        35
additional connection .D)
RE:2DUS                                             -----------------------------------__-----------JD ODO------E--------------------------------------------
Water consumption                                     -         2.2        7.6       20.0       31.0       47.0      64.0       82.0    102.0    124.0    148.0
Cc.nection fees                                     24.0       71.4      142.4      120.0      96 .       80.0       70.0       70.0      70.0      70.0      70.0
Sewerage tax                                                     - -        -       114.0      117.0      121.0     125.0      129.0    133.0    137.0    111.0
Otrer revenue                                        _           _                   20.0       20.0       19.0       18.0       18.o      17.0      17.0      16.0
TOTAI                                          24.0       73.6      150.0      274.0      264.0      267.0      277.0      299.0    322.0    343.0    375.0
OPF-RATING COSfS
SalarieS and wages                                  28.7       45.6       50.4       70.0       72.1      74.3       76.5       78.8      81.2      83.6      86.1
Power and fuel                                       0.4        1.3        3.7       12.0      12.4       12.8       13.2       13.6      14.0      14.4      14.8
Chemicals                                             -          -          -         3.0        3.5        4.0       4.5        5.0       5.5       6.o       6.5
Materials                                            0.4        0.1         _        27.0       31.0       35.0       36.8       37.6      38.3      39.0      39.6
Other expenses                                       1.7        6.8       31.6        8.0        8.8        9.7      10.7       11.8       13.0      14.3     15.7
TOTAL                                          31.2       53.8       85.7      120.0      127.8      135.8     1a1.7       146.8    152.0    157.3    162.S
Surplus (deficit) before depraciatior. and intereat  (7.2)     19.R       64.3      154.0      136.2      131.2     135.3      152.2    170.0    190.7    212.1
D1preciation                                        90.9      100.1      110.8       90.0     102.8      116.5      122.8      125.3    127.8    130.3    132.8
Total operating coets                              122.1      153.9      196.5      210.0      231.6     252.3      264.5      272.1    279.8    287.6    295.7
Surplus (deficit) before interest                  (98.1)     (80.3)     (,6.5)      64.0       33.4      14.7       12.5       26.9      42.2      60.4      79.3
Interest                                             8.7    _6.8           4.9        3.0        1.0        -          -        75.6       3.4      71.1      68 8
Net Surplus (deficit)                             (106.8)     (87.1)     (51.4)      61.0       32.4      14.7       12.5      (l49.7)   (31.2)      07)      10.5
A,erage net valueof fixed aesets in operation      2,672      2,940      3,114      3,421      3,870     4,02a      4,313      4,319     4,292     4,263     4,232
Nate of Return on Aerage llet Fisd Aesets            -           -          -       1.9%       0.9%       0.3%       0.3%       0.6O      1.0%      1.45      1.9%
Operating Ratio after depreciation                  508%       209%       131%        77%        87%        94%       95%        91%       87%        83%      79%
1/ Extracted from Municipalits accounts.
Ap-il 9, 1973



JOPDAN
AM(Wt WAT'ER SUPPLY AND SEWZRAGE PROJNECT - II                                   ANNEX i4
UNSOLIDATED INCOME AN1 EXPENDMIRE STATE3tENTS
Approximate       Lateat
--- 7-Actuala----    Estinates _________________---_--_---------Projections------------------------------------
1970      1971       1972      I22        19722      1975       1976      -19L        1978       1979       1980
_-----------------------__ -__ --_ --_ --_ __ __ __ - -------- -------- -- -- ---  JD  000- ----- --- ----- -- --- - --- ---- --- ---- - --- --- -- - ---- -- -- ---
PEViNUE
Water                                          356.5      383.8      472.2      590.0      649.0      712.0      779.0      957.0   1,040.0   1,129.0    1,223.0
Sewerage                                        24.0       73.6      150.0      274.0      264.0      267.0      277.0      299.0      322.0      348.0      375.0
TOTAL                                     380.5      457.4      622.2      864.0      913.0      979.0   1,056.0   1,256.0   1,362.0   1,477.0    1,598.0
OPERATING COSTS
Water                                          227.6      272.4      324.7      374.3      393.8      418.5      453.4      471.6      490.2      512.0      537.3
Sewerage                                        31.2       53.d       85.7      120.0      127.8      135.8      141.7      146.8      152.0      157.3      162.9
TOTAL                                     258.8      326.2      410.4      494.3      521.6      554.3      595.1      6WA.4      642.2      669.3      700.2
Surplus before depreciation and interest:
Water                                           128.9      111.4      147.5      215.7     255.2      293.5      325.6      485.4      549.8      617.0      685.7
Sewerage                                        ( 7.2)     19.8       64.3      154.0      136.2      131.2      135.3      152.2      170.0      190.7      212.1
TOTAL                                     121.7      131.2      211.8      369.7      391.4      424.7      460.9      637.6      719.8      807.7      897.8
Depreciation:
Water                                         73.8        76.6       94.3      90.1      107.0      134.3      173.1      180.7      184.0      190.6      200.5
Swerage                                       90.9      100.1      110.8       90.0      102.8      116.5      122.8      125.3      127.8      130.3      132.3
TOTAL                                     164.7      176.7      205.1      180.1      209.8      250.8      295.9      306.0      311.8      320.9      333.3
Total Operating Cost:
Water                                         301.4      349.0      419.0      464.4     500.8      552.8      626.5      652.3      674.2      702.6      737.8
Sewerage                                      122.1     153.9      196.5      2130.0     230.6      2.         2.5        272.1      279.8      287.6      295.7
TOTAL                                      423.5      502.9      615.5      674.4     731.4      805.1      891.0      924.4      954.0      990.2   1,033.5
Surplus before interest:
Water                                          55.1       34.8       53.2      125.6     148.2      159.2      152.5      304.7      365.8      426.4      485.2
Sewerage                                      (98.1)     (80.3)     (46.5)     64.J       3          14.7        25        26.9       42.2       60.4       79.3
TOTAL                                      (43.0)     (45-5)      6.7      189.6      181.6      173.9      165.0      331.6      408.0      486.8      56L.5
Non-operating Ecpense:
Water                                          21.4       13.4       38.7      63.3       55.1       47.0       38.6      180.7      173.0      165.7      160.0
Sewerage                                        8.7        6.8       4.9         3:0       1.0        _           -        75.6       73 4       71 1       68.8
TOTAL                                       30.1       20.2       43.6      66.3       56.1       47.0       38.8      256.3      246.4      236.8      228.8
Net Surplus:
Watar                                         33.7       21.4       14.5       62.3       93.1      112.2      113.7      124.0      192.8      260.7      325.2
Sewerage                                     (106.8)     (87.1)    (51.4)      61.0       32.4       14.7       12.5      (48.7)     (31 2)     (10.7)      10.5
TOTAL                                     (73.1)      (65.7)     (36.9)    1.23.3     125.5      126.9      126.2       75.3      161.6      250.0      335.7
Average net value of fixed assets in operation:
Water                                         2,097      2,428     2,511      2,567      3,139      4,020      4,747      4,913      4,831      4,793      4,898
Sewerage                                      2.672      2.940     3.114      3.42j. '   8.870      4.201      4                            4              4.232
TOTAL                                      4,769     5,368      5,625       5,988'   7,009       8,221      9,060      9,232      9,123      9,056      9,130
Rate of Return Oa Average NIt Fixed Assets
Water    %                                     2.6        1.4        2.1        4.9        4.7        4.0        3.2        6.2        7.6        8.9        9.9
Sewerage  S                                      -                    -         1.9        0.9        0.3        0.3        o.6        1.0        1.4        1.9
TOTAL                                        _          _          -         3.2        2.6        2.1        1.8        3.6        4.5        5.4        6.7
Operating Ratio after Depreciation   5            111       1tO          99        78         80         82         84         74         70         67         65
April 9, 1973



AIMi WATlASR SULY AND SEWERAGE PRSwCT - II                                        AMU= 15
EBTDNT1D SBBU AND APPLIA7IS   W F TlD
- -------------------------------------- Proeotion--------------- -----------------------
Approxinat         Lateat                                                  Total
--- Actuals----    Estimate                                            Pro4eot Period
..2.1970   1971        1972 _j__I                      1          1976      197376        19'77      1978       1979       19260
55g5OF  iFUNDS
3urplus before Deprciation:
Water                             128.9     l11.4      147-5      215.7      255.2      293.5      325.6      1,090.0      485.4      549.8      617.0      i85.7
Sewerage                         ( 7.2)      19.8       64.3      154.0      136.2      131.2      13$.1      _556-        152.2      170.0      190.7      212.1
TOTAL                    121.7       131.2     211.8      369.7      391.4      424.7      460.9      1,646.7      637.6      719.8      eo7.7      )97.6
Interest remoived                       9.6        2.2         -          -          -          -          -          -            -          -
)t'!er non-operating receipts          10.0       28.1       20.0         -          -          -          -          _
lt3 provdad by Munioepality 3/        415.1      275.7      270.6         -          -               -          -                  -          -          -          -
Carstal contributions                    -        50.0         -        15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0         60.0       15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0
Decrease in working capital              -       154.3       15.0         -               -          -          -                  -          -          -          -
Borrowings:
IDA Credit                          -          -          -       600.o    1,200.0      800.0       75.0      2,675.0        _           _          _          _
Local Loann                      109.0      270.4      270.6      295.0      400.0      180.0       200.0    1,075 0
TOTAL                     109.0     270.4      270.6      895.0   1,600.0       980.0       275.0    3,750.0          -          _          _          _
Tow,l S30nrcen o Funda                665,4      q11.9      788.0    1,279.7    2,006.4   1,419.7        750.9     5,456 7      652.6      13         d22.7      Le 
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
qeo annoetn
Project expenditures:
Water                            -          -          -       438.1    1,108.4      754.7       30.8      2,332.0         -
.ewaerag-                                   -          -       484.8      521.9      226.3         -       1,235.0         -
TOTAL                                                 -       922.9   1,630,3       981.0       3         1.S.0        __ _6
Ot6S- capital es.penditures,
Water                              7.7      555.2      280.0       26.0       10.0       10.0      200.0        246.0      100.0      C00.0      200.0      400.0
ewerage                          369.2      258.7      300.0       25.0       25.0       2.0       100.0        17.0       100.0      00.0       100.0      100.0
TOCPAL                   626.9      813.9      s80.0       51. 0      350       _lS o                 .30.0  421.0  200.0     200.0      300.0      SOO O
Total New Ansets                      626.9      813.9      580.0      973.9   1,665.3    1,018.0       330.8      3,988.0      200.0      200.0      300.0      50o.0
Dolt Servioe
Amorti.at-on of Lo ans,
Existing IDA Credit          26.8       26.8       26.8       26.8       26.8       26.8       26.8        107.2       26.8       2b.8       26.6       2b.:J
Proposed IDA Credit            -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          48.3       51.2       54.1       57.0
Existing Looal Loans         61.4       85.5      120.5      163.0      148.0      133.0      133.0        577.0       95.5       95.5       o2.0       50.o
New Local Loans                _                                                                                       19.8       21.0       22.4       23.6
TOTAL                     88.2      112.3      147-3      189.8      174.8      159.8      159.8        684.2      190.4      194.5      165.3      157.4
Interest:
Eixisting IDA Credit          19.0      17-9       16.8       15.7       14.6       13.5       12.4         5c.2       11-3       10.2        9.1        d.0
Proposed IDA Credit            -          -          -        15.0       70.0      140.0      150.0        375.0      159.7      156.8      153.9      151.0
Existing Local Loans         30.7       32.6       46.8       50.6       41.5       33.5       26.4        152.0       21.1       16.4       12.2        9.4
Pzopoaed Local Loans                                           5.0       30.0       40.0       50.0        15.0        64.2       63.0       61.6       60.4
TOTAL                     49.7       50.S       63.6       86.3      156.i      227.0      238.8        708.2      256.3      246.4      236.8      228.8
Total Debt Service                    137.9      162.8      210.9      276.1      330.9      386.8      398.6      1,392.4      446.7      440.9      402.1      386.2
Increase Sn Working Capital            73.6         -          -        25.7        2.0        2.0       17.0         41;.7      25.0       15.0        6.o       16.0
'excludiog caab)
To1.al Application of Funds           81.        27         I        1,275.7   1.598.2   1,406.8        746.4    5,427 1        671.7      655.9      708.1      902.2
Net Cash Generation                  (173.0)    ( 64.8)     ( 2-9)       4.o        8.2       12.9        4.5         29.6      (19.1)      78.9      114.6       10.6
Castl Balanoe Enid of Year            106.4       41.6       38.7       42.7       50.9       63.8       68.3          .         49.2      128.1      242.7      253.3
Debt L S.rrIe Coverage                  0.9        0.8        1.0        1.4        1.7        2.0        2.3         1.8         1.4        1.6        2.0        2.3
/  For erage and stom  drain4ae aeets
April 9, 1973



J09DU
AMIQF WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - IT                                    AINEu 16
ELTWED BAILE 8SEETS
Apprximate           TAtest       --------------------Proetons------- t-------                             n---- -----
----Act-I----        Estimate
A. on Secember 31,                             1970        1971        1972        1973       19714        1975  _      976        1977         1978        1979        1980
ASSETS
Current Assets-
Castl                                   106.4         41.6        38.7        42.7       50.9         63.8        68.3        49.2        128.1       242.7       ii..3
I,-erturlien                              -             -        300.7       31070      310.0       310.0        310.0       310.0       310.0        310.0       310. 0
Accounts Receicable                     188.3         70.7        75.0        95.0      105.0        118.0       131.0       164.0       187.0        501.0       "7.0
Total Current Assets                         294.7        112.3       414.4       447.7      465.9       491.8        509.3       523.2       625.1        753.7       78. 3
"ied Assets:
Water Supply                          2,471.0      3,026.2     2,729.3     3,242.9    4,071.3      5,246.0     5,831.8     5,931.8     6,03i.8      6,231.8     6,631.E
Less Accumulated Depreciation           282.0        358.6       374.1       464.2      571.2        705.5       878.6     1,059.3     1,243.3     1,433.9    1,634.4
Net                                   2,189.0      2,667.6     2,355.2     2,778.7    3,500.1     4,540.5      4,953.2     4,872.5     4,788.5      4,797.9     4,997.4
Work-ir_-progress                          -            _        179.5       145.0       505.0       225.0        10.0        10.0        10.0         10.0        10.0
Total water supply               2,189.0     2,667.6      2,534.7     2,923.7    4,005.1     4,765.5      4,963.2     4,882.5     4,798.5     4,807.9      5,007.4
Sewerage (including stor drainage)   3,043.5      3,302.2      3,602.2     4,117.0    4,693.9     4,997.2      5,157.2     5,257.2     5,357.2     5,457.2      5,557.2
.eLs Accurulated Depreciation           182.7       282.8        393.6       483.6      586.4       702.9        825.7       951.0     1,078.8     1,209.1      1,31419
Net                                   2,860.8      3,019.4     3,208,6     3,633.4    4,107.5      4,29t'.3    4,331.5     4,306.2     4,278.4      4,248.1     4,215.3
Total. Flxed Assets                        5,o49.8      5,687.0     5,743.3     6,557.1    8,112.6     9,059.8      9,294.7     9,188.7     9,076.9     9,056.0      9,222.7
TOTAL ASSETS                               5,344 5    5,799.3       6,157.7     7,D04.8    8,578.5     9,551.6      9,804.0     9,711.9     9,702.0     9,809.7    10,0L1.0
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities:
Accounts Payable                         55.9        86.o        103.0        99.0       99.0       102.0         99.0        90.0        90.0        90.0         90.0
Deposits                                102.8       109.4        116.4       124.0      132.0       140.0        148.0       156.0       164.0       172.0        180.C
Total C-rrent Liabilities                    158.7       195.4        219.4       223.0       31.0       242.0        238.0       246.o       254.0       262.0        270.0
Long Ters Debt-
Existing IDA Credit (18-JD)             455.3       428.5       401.7        374.9      348.1       321.3       294.5        267.7       240.9       214.1       187.3
proposed IDA Credit                       -            -           -         600.0   1,800.0      2,600.0     2.675.0 .  2,626.2       2,575.5     2,521.4     2,464.4
Existing Local Loans                    595.0       779.9       930,0        767.0      619.0       486.0       353.0        257.5       162.0       100.0        50.0
New local Loans                           -            -                     295.0      695.0       875.0     1,075.0      1,055.2     1,034.2     1,011,8       988.2
Total Lung Tens Debt                       1,050.3     1,208.4     1,331.7      2,036.9    3,462.1     4,282.3     4,397.5      4,207.1     4,012.6     3,847 3     3,689.9
Equit y
GovernrSe.t ad- ances for sewerage
and storss water drainage           2,500.0     2,500.0     2,500.0      2,500.0    2,500.0     2,500.0     2,500.0     2,500.0      2,500.0     2,500.0     2,500.0
other equity, retained earnings
<. capital contributione            1,635.5     1,895.5     2,106.6      2.244.9    2,385.4     2,527.3     2,668.5     2,758.8     2,935.4      3,2004      3,551.1
totaL EqTity                               4,135.5     4,395.5     4,606.6      4,744.9   4,885.4      5,027.3     5,168.5     5,258.8      5,435.4     5,700.4      6,051.1
rOoAL LIAPILITIES AND EQUITY               5,344.5     5,799.3    61_7. 7      7,004 8    8.578  5    9,516        9,804,0    9,711.9      9,702.0   9I809L 7    10 011 0
D:bt:    Equity Ratin                          _           _         22:78        30:70      41:59       46:51       46 54 464:56            42:58        40:60       38:62
April 9, 1973



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2 pages
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL FORECASTS
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENT
A.   WATER
Revenues
1.        Water sales are assumed to increase 2 lpcd annually, from about 44
lpcd in 1972 to 58 lpcd in 1980. The percentage of population connected is
projected to increase from 78% in 1972 to 86% in 1980. Unaccounted-for water,
defined as the difference between water produced and water sold, is assumed to
decrease gradually (4% per year), from 64% in 1972 to 32% in 1980. A water
rate of 75 fils/m3 was assumed for 1973-76 and 85 fils/m3 from 1977 onwards.
2.        Other revenues reflect the charges for new connections, meter rentals
(to be established) and miscellaneous items.
Operating Costs
3.        Salaries and wages are adjusted to reflect organizational changes
in 1973 and are thereafter projected to increase by 3% per year to cover salary
and staff increases.
4.        Power and fuel costs are estimated to increase in parallel with
the increase in water production, plus an annual 3% increase to reflect in-
creased pumping costs to higher altitudes. 1/
5.        Maintenance costs are calculated at 1.5% of the gross value of assets
in operation at the beginning of each year.
6.        Other expenses include such items as stationery, telephones, postage
and insurance, and are estimated to increase by 10% annually.
7.        Depreciation is calculated at the rate of 3.3% of the gross value
of fixed assets at the beginning of each year.
B,   SEWERAGE (INCLUDINC STORM-WATER DRAINACE)
Revenues
8.        Water consumption for the sewered connections is assumed to increase
by 5% annually.
9.        Connection fees are calculated at 25% of the average annual net
rental value of premises estimated to be connected each year.
1/ No increase in electricity rates is projected by the appraisal mission
of "Jordan - Zerqa Power Project."



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2 pages
10.       The sewerage tax is calculated at 47 of the annual net rental value
of all premises in Amman, which is estimated at JD 4.54 million in 1973, rising
by 2% annually to take account of the new construction.  Collections are
assumed at 70%. A collection charge of 10% made by the Finance Ministry is
deducted.
11.       Other revenues include application fees for new connections, cess-
pool clearance fees, etc.
Operating Costs
12.       Salaries and wages are adjusted to reflect organizational changes
in 1973 and are projected to increase by 3% per year to cover salary and
staff increases.
13.       Power and fuel costs are based on the proposed 24-hour working
of the treatment plant in 1973, increasing by about 3% annually to provide
for increased volume.
14.       Chemicals are assumed to increase marginally each year.
15.       Materials for maintenance are calculated at 0.75% of the gross value
of assets in operation at the beginning of each year.
16.       Other expenses reflect the cost of stationery, forms, telephones,
postage, insurance, etc., and are projected to increase by 10% annually.
17.       Depreciation is calculated at 2.5% of the gross value of fixed
assets at the beginning of each year.
Sources and Applications of Funds Statement
18.       Capital contributions represent the cost of new and replacement
meters to be collected from consumers.
19.       Other capital exoenditures in 1973-1975 represent the costs of
minor extensions outside the project. Expenditures from 1976 onward
represent the capital expenditures on the expansion of the secondary water
distributions network, the secondary sewer network, and house connections.
Balance Sheet
20.       The value of fixed assets and the accumulated depreciation as of
December 31, 1972, are based on a reasonable valuation by the consultants.
21.       Accounts receivable represents about two months' billing for water
sales and include the sewerage surcharge for sewer connections.
22.       Customers' deposits are assumed to increase bv JD 8,000 per year.



ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2 pages
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
WATER AND SEWEERAGE TARIFFS
Water
1.        Water Consumption:
Existing rate - 65 fils/m3, subject to a minimum of 780 fils per
quarter.  (This rate will be raised to 75 fils/m3 effective January 1, 1973.)
The following categories of consumers get free/concessional supply:
Free - Central Mosque and Youth Organization
90% Concession - Municipal Gardens
50% Concession - Mosques, schools and charitable! institutions
The amount of rebate involved for the free/concessional supply
during 1971 was about JD 17,000.
2.        Connection and Reconnection Fees:
Connection Fee                                 JD 1.275
Reconnection Fee - after meter repair
or meter change           JD 0.150
- in respect of meters
disconnected for non-
payment of bills or
for sanitary reasons      JD 0.375
3.        Customers' Contributions for New Connections:
JD
Preparation of a plan                     -        1
Surveying                                 -        1
Connections to old pipes (1/2-2")         -        1
Connections to old pipes (2-15")          -       15
Connections to new pipes (2-4")           -       15
Connections to new pipes (6" and above) -         25
Installation of bronze Ferule (1/2-1")  -          8
Installation of bronze Ferule (1 1/2-2")-         15



ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 2 pages
Sewerage
4.       I-ater Consumption Surcharge          - 30 fils/m3.
5.        Connection Fees                      - 25% of annual net rental value of
premises to be connected
6.        Application Fees:
JD
Class A buildings                    -        10
Class B buildings                    -        5
Class C & D buildings                -        3
Commercial and Industrial
Buildings                          -       25
7.        Sewerage Tax                         - 4% of annual net rental value of
premises, payable annually
by all householders in Amman
(irrespective of whether con-
nected to the sewer system).



AiNEX 19
Page I of 5 Pages
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - II
AQABA DEVELOMM4ET STUDIES
Background
1.        The region of Aqaba is located on the Jordanian shore of the Red.
Sea, the southernmost tip of the country.  This shore, to which 17 km were
added. in 1966 when Jordan and Saudi Arabia decided to rediefine their borders,
extends for 25 km between Saudi Arabia and Israel. The terrain is generally
rugged and mountainous,  except behind the town of Aqaba, where lies a
relatively large plain. Situated at the same latitude as Florida, the region
enjoys a favorable climate -- with air and water monthly temperatures seldom
below 200 C, low relative himidity (37.8& yearly average) and a high number
of sunshine hours (ranging from a minimum of six to a maximum of 12 in Decenber
and August, respectively).  Originally a small fishing village, the town of
Aqaba -- the region's only urban center -- is experiencing rapid growth; last
year, its population was estimated to have reached 15,00).
2.        The region of Aqaba has considerable tourism potential.  The nearest
sihore to hrope where swimming is possible in the middle of the winter, the
17 km Red Sea coastline acquired from Saudi Arabia inclu(des splendid beaches
along a sea noted for the limpidity of its waters, the range of its colors,
the richness of its coral seabed and the abundance of its marine life. A range
of barren hills running parallel to the coast, and the view of the mountains
on the opposite side of the gulf, combine to render the surrounding landscape
particularly dramatic. Within a 60-mile radius are the world-famous attrac-
tions of Petra, the carved-stone town founded by the Nabataeans in 2000 B.C.,
and the dadi Ram desert with its contrasting plains and mnountains. Assuming
political stability in the country, this combination of tourism resources
should have a strong year-round appeal for international visitors -- particu-
larly beach-based and water sport-oriented vacationers, a segment of the
international tourism market which has continuouslyincreased in importance
over recent years.
3.        Aqaba's development prospects are not limited to tourism, however.
Because of its geographic situation as a border and coastal town, Aqaba is
a natural transportation center. The combination of favorable orographic,
soils and climate conditions render some of its surrounding areas developable
for agriculture. The availability of a good transportation network and of
abundant labor enhances the region's prospects for gradual industrialization.
Anticipating the progressive tapping of these resources, the new master plan
predicts accelerated urban growth for Aqaba, with its population reaching
40,000 by 1990.



ANNEX 19
Page 2 of e Pages
Past and Current Development Plans
4.        In recent years, the Jordanian Government has concentrated growing
attention on Aqaba, one of the few areas in the country with real prospects
for multi-sectoral development.  Conceived in different periods and with
the advice of various countries' technical assistance programs, Government's
plans appear to be too fragmented, however. Projects are being considered
in isolation with too little consideration of their interrelations. This Mas
led in the past, and threatens to lead in future, to a type of uncoordinated
deveJopment with consequent waste of efi'orts and economic resources.
Touri5m
K.        In 1c66, the Jordanian Govermment engaged Doxiadis, A Greek
consulting firm, for the preparation of a master plan for the development
of the 17 km coastline south of Aqaba. Completed early in 1967, the
Doxiad.is Master Plan recommended that the Aqaba coast be developed in three
phases -- 1968-1972, 1972-1985 and 19u&-2000 -- through the implementation
of both infrastructure and superstructure programs.
6.        The infrastructure program includes the construction of a main
coastal highway and of secondary roads serving individual accomrmdation
f'acilities; as well as sewerage, water, electricity and telecommunication
works. The program also envisages landscaping and general reforestation
of the area, beach improvement works, the construction of artificial lakes
to offer swimming options for visitors, and the building of docks, piers,
and sport centers., including an 18-hole golf course.
7.        The superstructure program calls for the construction, by the year
2000, of 16,000 beds in hotels, tourism villages, campings and residential
villas, with individual targets for the first, second and third phases of
1,080, 3,250 and 11,670 beds, respectively. To provide a basis for regulating
this accommdation build-up, the Master Plan presents a set of building
standards.
el.       The Doxiadis Master Plan is generally well-prepared.  The program
for infrastructure improvements is well-coordinated with that for super-
structure development, and the proposed land. and beach uses are based on
internationally-accepted standards. The Plan has some drawbacks, however.
Costs of several project components, such as beach improvements, landscaping,
anld reforestation are underestimated, and the market justification for th1e
build-up of 16,000 beds is not thorughly investigated. The estimates of
prospective tourist traffic are based upon extrapolations of past trends which
were influenced by too small a number of accommodations to be meaningful.
g.        Upon completion by Doxiadis of the preliminary engineering for the
first and second phase infastructure works, the Government instructed
(February 1968) the Ministry of Public Works to proceed with the detailed
engineering and implementation of the coastal highway (which is now almost
completed). However, political uncertainty and financial constraints dis-
suaded the Government from taking any further action with regard to the other
components of the infrastructure program.



ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 5 Pages
B. Transportation
10.       The Government is dedicating special efforts to the expansion of
Aqaba's transportation system.  Improvement works to the port, which can
now accommodate about 300 ships and handle 1.6 million tons of freight a year,
are in progress with the assistance of the Federal Republic of Germany.
dhen these works are completed by the end of 1973, the port will be able
to handle over 3 million tons of freight annually.
11.        Also with G3r,aan  financial assistance, work is continuing for
extending the Amman-Hittieh railway to Aqaba.  Completion of this project
will provide a viable alternative to road transportation of Amman merchandise
unloaded in the port of Aqaba, and improve the distribution of freight
throughout Jordan.
12.       A new international airport, located a few miles to the north of the
town, was completed in early 1972 with UK assistance. It has a 3,000-meter
runway and a terminal to accommodate some 200,000 passengers per year.
Scheduled flights are in operation by Fbyal Jordanian Airlines and planned
in-flight assistance and niglht-use equipment will be brought into service
by mid-1973.
C. Other Sectors
13.       The Government has various plans for agricultural development.
Some of them are aimed at developing diy fanming in the desert areas more
remote from the town -- where specialized cultures (particularly vegetables
and fruits) can be grown and a permanent farming population settled.
14.       Government plans for industrialization propose to establish in
the region an  industrial and commercial free zone as well as an industrial
estate where chemical, ship-building, and small food processing plants can
be developed. A phosphate fertilizer plant has been planned for a site
1 kn inland, although recently the Government began exploring the feasibility
of locating the plant on the coast in order to reduce transportation costs.
15.       Within the context of Aqaba's new master plan, works are being
carried out for the construction of a new spur road connecting Aqaba with
the southern highway. At the same time, a project is being implemented
to provide the town with a new street and sewerage system together with ex-
panded housing. Further, the Government is in the process of entrusting to
Doxiadis the study for a supplement to the master plan of the coastal stretch
from the port to the national border.
Need for additional studies
16.       To foster economic development in the Aqaba regLon, the Government
should undertako twgo distinct sets of additional studies - the first of a
general, regional nature, amd the second focusing specifically on tourism.



ANN-EX 19
Page 4 of 5 Pages
A. General studies
17.       These studies should be aimed at establishing a more comprehensive
overall design for future regional development - one which would eliminate
the risk of uncoordinated economic growth and ensure that resources allocated
for Aqaba be put to their best use.
18.       Reviewing the plans elaborated for the various sectors and relating
them one to the other, the studies should:
(i)   revise regional infrastructure needs in the light of
prospective overall development, including tourism,
industrial, agricultural and urban growth: e.g. studies
should determine whether the Wadi Yatum water resources
are sufficient to meet the prospective requirements
(to 1985) of both Aqaba proper and the tourist accomoda-
tion planned along the 17 km coastline acquired from
Saudi Arabia; and whether residual water would be left
for irrigation purposes:
(ii)   detect possible contradictions: e.g. the studies should
review the proposed location of both heavy and light
industrial plants, in order to ensure that industrial
develonment is not detrimental to other types of develop-
ment (e.g. tourism and urban);
(iii)   identify all possible areas of savings; towards this
end, the studies should (a) carefully look into the
feasibility of multipurpose infrastructure projects
(that might lead to economies of scale); and (b) submit
proposed individual works to least-cost solution tests;
e.g. the studies should investigate whether the estab-
ishment of an autonomous plant on the 17 kma coastline, ac-
q*ired from Saudi Arabia to treat sewage effluent from
prospective tourism development there, would not be a
rmre viable proposition than channeling this sewage into
the treatment plant existing at Aqaba.
(iv)   review current development plans, having regard to
their interrelationships and complementarities: e.g. the
studies should revise current agricultural pla-ns in the
light of both the conclusions of the investigation on
expansion of regional water supply and on the likely
growth of the population of the area, both permanent
population and tourists.



ANNEX 19
Page 5of 5 Pages
3. Tourism Studies
19.        Ihese studies should. be aimed at revising, updating and complementing
the tourism development scheTae the Government is preparing for the 17 Im coast-
line acquired. from Saudi Arabia. l4ore specifically, the studies sniould include:
(i)   recommendations on how to reintegrate in the scheme works
recommended by Doxiadis, but subsequently excluded by the
interdepartamental committee;
(ii)   feasibility studies for a hotel training c:enter, to meet
prospective hotel personnel requirements in the region;
(iii)   detailed. building codes and zoning ordinances to ensure
orderly development in the project area;
(iv)   revision and. updating of cost estimates of scheme's
various infrastiucture components;
(v)   strengthening and updating of the market and economic
justification prepared by Doxiadis.
20.       The appeal of the region for international tourism would substantially
increase if the tourism resources being developed along the 17 km coast south
of Aqaba could be "sold" with the attractions at Wadi Ram and Petra in the same
"package". To provide easy access and better stop-over facilities in these two
sites, the Government should undertake an independent study for improving the
alignment and design standards of the road which rans from Aqaba to Petra and
Wadi Ram, as well as for establishing minor infrastructure to serve the construc-
tion of an additional rest-house in Petra snd of camping facilities in Wadi Ram.
Cost of the Additional Studies
21.       It is expected that the above studies (paras. 1.8-20) would be carried
out over an 18-month period and cost about US$450,000, including a foreign
exchange component of approximately US$370,000 (i.e. 82A of total cost). The
work would be coordinated and supervised by an inter-disciplinary committee set
u-p within and directly responsible to the National Planning Council.






IBRD 10121
7   ;2  36'                                                                                  JANUARY 1973
T.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
7~~~~~~~~~~~
/    CD    Neaor,ah,              -      s                 TO^OC           S  YR  IA                                           7"
4, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~7
Q0'          T Sa,                                                                                                                          ,
-32 '                                                                                                                                                                 < J ( Salt %/  32'
Gaza
) Fa/-AMMAJ                                            AN
Rushodc       \         mEl Muaqqar                                    Waro Pip
JER U         7             M.Nb    .L ,                               -r~
ro adfO                                                                                                         Roads
e ron                          --------   ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     rueLie      98                          7
rO~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -ersb  t                                                 Inestoa  Boudaie
@,  yAMMAN WuTER SUPPLY  AND SEWERAGE PROJECT-dI
/          <                  ~~~EXISTING WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SCHEMES
y a / , -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~QOa' el Jinz                                                    Sewera3ge Schemes\
/     /,-~-~-~  RiPashadiya                    .Water Pipes 
3'    1       R        b                                   . /            ,                              Nitonal Highways 
_   !   Shaubak C  =    *|/                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secand Class Roads 
/ ,$(JOther  RoIds
..7Truce Line - 1948 
i It ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- *&=--------                                  Wadis/
\ X ___ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mudficits and Wadi Bedsj
t z     \       A br j - -A. Y_    Darms 
-33                   Rose Naqb/                                                                                                                                     30
I~~~~~~~~YI
g0Dqab         0    10   20   30   40   SC   60   70 /
KILOMETERS                               . 
0a |t         K I L O   20  3 T E R 5                   /                                           t0 40
0                             ~~~~~~~~~MILES
AUIARABIA
mply     .s a.- -        Thu           OF
L /  <6v                  W-frdBesk;hd-saff,i,a5               EGYPT






______________________________________                _______                   ~~~~~~ ~~~~IBRD     10122
! -0 I                                                                          ANUARY  IP73
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT-Il:                                                                     z
WATER SUPPLY SCHEME                                                                       -
HA2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W,,              ,,S"tt                                                                   !      
BDI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/7)      -                                                                                          0 5                                2
T'-. #.1e, . ,,.,,.5 .1,.,.,, ,, , .,,.,, .1 .............. ,1 , > ' \ S PROPOSED  EXISTING
N,,,,j3,,,,'se,,,,,s,,, S"1"J  lb-   o                  EE QUOSMEH                (1973-76)
I ___ _                          ._..                                                                                                   * UM   SU W EIW IN A   t  *  Pum p ing  St otNon o
N                                                                       A      )      *A Wells
J   l :            \                         wZ   I                                             _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Waler Distribution Systems
L  u    ,   s Y R                                                                                                                                   N A  7  m f=-J   Aress to be Provided With o New S.S.ndOry System
o uJJ _ ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~> ~~~~~~~City B... d.,y
afb~ ~     ~_ t                                                                                                                       WATER DISTRIB.UTIONAND P_RESSyRE ZONES
'A| A I                                                                                                                                                       ',\f}'E-' Zon 1 h2 oe IV
RErP OF    \ OtDI i     i                                                                                                        ;'TPopul.fmo A-.a, 1967
E- G           __    5AUol3 0                                                                             






IBRD 10123-
JANUARY 1973
JORDAN
AMMAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT-K                   To 7ARO / FA
SEWERAGE  SCHEME                                r -           -
,
X         ' -   , "R       W   4  C                    ,J'
,. d;W<t'iC,''l,'  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ST
To    .soy                                    /EXECUTED  DURING:
jIfC                                             1963-69  1970-72   MUNICIPALITY
-0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
CY R J   S   Y   R   \-3IS  A
_-r
M   \eo0  -     -/GK&5
,REPUBLIC                              k~9ExCUED DUING:TER
EGYPT                                         0    QS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TTAT TCU  UNCPLT
IT-U  U   So.-- ~ h,,p,oo  A__                 35,Y40t
~ ~~~YIY   o'do--,.o~~~~,  -'.-~~~'~"so   Yyrno  '4  -~~~~       --MILE



