CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 385 JO
Project Agreement
(Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project II)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AMMAN MUNICIPAL AREA WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
DATED MAY 24, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 385 JO
Project Agreement
(Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project II)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AMMAN MUNICIPAL AREA WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
DATED MAY 24, 1973
J


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and AMMAN
MUNICIPAL AREA WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY (hereinafter called
AWSA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has rrqed to mak2 available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equiv7ie. . to eight million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($8,700,000), on the term. a d conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that AWSA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and AWSA,
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
for Part I of the Project will be relent to AWSA on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS AWSA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions as so defined have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AWSA shall carry out Part 1 of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency


﻿4
and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist in the preparation of detailed designs and
tender documents, evaluate bids and supervise construction of the Project, AWSA
shall at all times employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Furthermore AWSA shall
engage management and accounting consultants acceptable to the Association if
the United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration (ODA) assistance is
terminated before satisfactory management and accounting systems have been
established by AWSA.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Parts lA and lB of the Project, AWSA shall
employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) AWSA undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by AWSA
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, AWSA shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) AWSA shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specification-s, reports,contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for Part I of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿5
(b)   AWSA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Part I of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine Part I of the Project, the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Part I of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. AWSA shall borrow the proceeds of the Credit from the
Borrower under such terms and conditions as set forth in a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement acceptable to the Association and such other terms as the Association
shall approve and shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AWSA shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AWSA
Section 3.01. AWSA shall at all times carry out its operations under the
supervision of a competent general manager as well as competent senior staff.
Section 3.02. AWSA shall adequately maintain the works, installations and
equipment under its jurisdiction and promptly make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering standards and practices.
To that end AWSA shall employ before January 1, 1974 a qualified firm for staff
training in operation and maintenance of its facilities under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. AWSA shall at all times take all steps necessary to maintain
its rights to carry on its operations, and shall, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to acquire and retain such land, interest
in land and properties and to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, consents,
franchises and other rights, as may be necessary or useful for carrying out the
project and to avoid delays in project implementation.


﻿6
Section 3.04. AWSA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate public utilities
practice.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AWSA shall
charge not less than an average water rate of 75 fils/m3 for water sold to the
general public during the period up to December 31, 1976.
Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AWSA
shall take all necessary steps to establish and maintain water tariffs at a level
sufficient to yield an annual rate of return on the value of water supply net fixed
assets in operation of not less than 6% in 1977 and not less than 7-1/2% from
January 1, 1978 onward.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The required annual rate of return shall be calculated by using
as the denominator in respect of each fiscal year the average
of net fixed assets in service for water supply at the beginning
and at the end of each such year and as the numerator AWSA's
operating income from water supply operations for that same
year.
(ii)        The terms "net fixed assets" shall mean the gross value of such
assets in service less accumulated depreciation, all determined
in accordance with sound valuation and depreciation methods,
acceptable to the Association.
(iii)       The term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross revenues from water supply, plus other recurring fees
and charges associated with water supply; and
(B)   the  operating   and  administrative expenses, including
adequate provision for maintenance and repairs, provision
for depreciation of all fixed assets in service and for taxes
but before provision for interest and other charges on
debt.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AWSA shall:


﻿7
(i)         complete a study of water tariff structure to assess its suitability
under prevailing socio-economic conditions not later than
June 30, 1974;
(ii)       submit the findings and recommendations of said study to the
Association for its comments; and
(iii)      implement such recommendations as shall have been agreed upon
by AWSA, and the Association.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree AWSA shall
by January 1, 1974 (a) employ a leak detection specialist to undertake leakage
survey; (b) establish a leak detection and repair section; (c) start a house-to-house
survey to detect illegal connections and to update records; and (d) submit to the
Association for comment proposals for reorganizing its billing and collection system
so as to establish proper internal control; and implement a mutually agreed upon
system soon thereafter.
Section 3.09. AWSA shall ensure that rates for sewerage services shall be
fixed so as to yield sufficient revenue to meet operating and maintenance costs,
provision for depreciation, and debt service requirements to the extent they exceed
the provision for depreciation.
Section 3.10. AWSA shall upgrade its salary structure so as to provide salaries
and career development prospects that will enable it to attract and retain sufficient
qualified staff in competition with other organizations, authorities and corporations
in Jordan.
Section 3.11. AWSA shall by September 30, 1973 appoint and at all times
employ a qualified and experienced senior engineer acceptable to the Association
to the position of Chief Engineer (Engineering) responsible for project
administration.
Section 3.12. AWSA shall enforce the requirements of the Amman Public
Sewerage Law No. I of 1965 as amended or may be amended from time to time
regarding house connections. To that end AWSA shall take all necessary steps to
ensure that all premises for which sewer laterals are constructed under the project
shall have service connections made within six months and in any case not later
than nine months following completion of said sewer laterals.


﻿8
Section 3.13. AWSA shall submit to the Association for comment not later
than January 1, 1974 the hydrological work program and data to be gathered
by NRA.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. AWSA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition. To that end AWSA shall, not later than September 30, 1973,
prepare and submit to the Association for its comments:
(a)   a chart of accounts and accounting procedures and rules;
(b)   an inventory control system; and
(c)   a timetable for the implementation of a new accounting system.
Section 4.02. AWSA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of AWSA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. AWSA shall employ before September 30, 1973 a qualified
accountant experienced in utility accounting, budgeting and costing.
Section 4.04. AWSA shall submit the proposals of its training program for
its accounting staff to the Association for its approval not later than September 30,
1973.
Section 4.05. AWSA shall consult with the Association prior to adopting
a system of computerized billing and monthly accounts.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AWSA shall
not incur any debt without prior approval of the Association, unless its net revenues


﻿9
for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for any later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, shall be not less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement in any succeeding fiscal
year (including the fiscal year in which such debt is to be incurred) on all debt
including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of AWSA, including debt
incurred by others on behalf of AWSA but for the service of which AWSA is
responsible, maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt.
(c)   The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of AWSA's rates in effect at the time of the incurrence
of debt even though they were not in effect during all or a part of the fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all operating and
administrative expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but before provision covering
depreciation, interest and other charges on debt.
(d)   The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(e)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable,
at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and AWSA shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that erd, the Association
and AWSA shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of AWSA and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.


﻿10
Section 5.02. The Association and AWSA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
AWSA of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. AWSA shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of AWSA and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of AWSA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify AWSA of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed


﻿11
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For AWSA:
P. 0. Box 2412
Amman
Jordan
Cable address:
Amman Water Supply and
Sewerage Authority
Amman, Jordan
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of AWSA may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors
of AWSA or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. AWSA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of AWSA, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by AWSA pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
xx"


﻿12
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President,
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
AMMAN MUNICIPAL AREA
WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
By /s/ Z. Mufti
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, AWSA shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by AWSA to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and AWSA shall make such additions to or
deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, AWSA shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, AWSA shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform AWSA
and the Borrower, state the reasons for such determination and advise AWSA of
any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule I to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿14
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works and equipment, AWSA
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform AWSA
and the Borrower, state the reasons for such determination and advise AWSA of
any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
3.    Spare parts and other items required to be compatible with existing
equipment and such minor items as are, for reasons of economy, customarily
procured without competition are exempted from the requirement of international
competitive bidding set forth in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Jordan if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Jordan of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.


﻿15
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Jordan.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    For goods included in Category I of the table set out in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, a margin of preference may
be granted by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be
granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with
Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference
Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered
in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                      Bids to be Compared                 Preference
I.               All Preferred Domestic Bids and               None
Non-Preferred Domestic Bids.
II.         (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,           Add Domestic
if Preferred Domestic Bid, with all           Preference
Foreign Bids;                                 Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,           None
if Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with
all Foreign Bids.
III.             If lowest evaluated bid under Stage           None
II is not the lowest evaluated bid
under Stage I, all Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which willbe
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the


﻿16
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
Ur


