Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OFMCIAL USE ONLY
Rkpol No. P-4242-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 11.7 MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR THE
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND
MINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 19, 1986
Thi S dmmi bhs a restricted ditsnbuim and may be  id by recipients only in the perfonmwe dof
tbeio ficia didi. Iets oeteuts may not otbwrise be disdosed withou Word Bank asuthodrin.  |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Franc Rwandese (RF)
US $1.00       =  RF 103
RF 100         =  $.97
WEIGHT AND HEASURES
Metric                        British/US Equivalents
1 meter                    =  3.3 feet
1 hectare                  =  2.47 acres
1 are (100 m2)             =  0.02 acres
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)  =  0.39 square miles (sq. m.)
1 kilogram (kg)            =  2.2 pounds (lb.)
1 liter (1)                =  0.26 US gallons (gal.)
1 metric ton (m ton)       =  2,204 (lb.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNR          -  National Bank of Rwanda/Banque Nationale du Rwanda
IWACU        -  Cooperative Research and Training Center/Centre de
Formation et de Recherches Cooperatifs
COOPIBO      -  Belgian Non-Governmental Association for Support to
Cooperatives/Compagnons batisseurs
DEP          -  Department of Studies and Planning/Direction Etudes et
Planification
TSAR         -  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
MINAGRI      -  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry/Hinistere
de 1'Agriculture, de 1'Elevage et des Forets
OCIR         -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda
FISCAL YEAR
Government  -  January 1 to December 31



(i)             FOR OMCIA4L USE ONLY
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
AND MINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:     Rwandese Republic
Beneficiary:  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (MINAGRI)
Amount:       SDR 11.7 million (US$12.7 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard !DA terms.
Project       The proposed Credit would finance a set of activities de-
Objectives   signed to support Government's agricultural sector strategy
and          with the twin objectives of stimulating agricultural produc-
Description: tion, employment and income, and improving management of the
sector. It comprises two distinct components. The Gitarana
Agricultural Production component would be the pilot phase of
a national agricultural extension and agriculture service
organization, and of a national program for promoting private
and cooperative investment in agriculture, agro-processing
and marketing. The service systems developed on a pilot
basis under this component are intended as a model which
would be replicable at the national level and institutionally
and financially sustainable. The component would include:
(a) identification and introduction to farmers of specific
recommendations to increase productivity and income; (b)
introduction of a new extension management system; and (c)
support to the development of other selected services (e.g.
provision of plant material, forestry and veterinary ser-
vices). In addition, it would provide support and assistance
to credit institutions, cooperatives, farmers' groups, arti-
sans and private enterprises to develop agro-processing,
marketing and input supply activities. The Credit would also
finance a study for the development of the Nyabarongo Valley,
a marsh area of considerable potential for agricultural
intensification. The MINAGRI Institutional Development com-
ponent would strengthen the institution-building process to
improve agricultural sector planning and management. The
component would provide support, mainly in the form of tech-
nical assistance, equipment and training, for: planning,
project preparation, monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural services and projects, accounting and financial
management, documentation and general administration.
Benefits:     The Gitarama Agricultural Production component would benefit
directly a large number of farm families (about 50,000 small
This docmt ha a eticted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not oherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
holders, all in the poverty target group) in the Gitarama
prefecture. In time, the entire population of Rwanda is
expected to benefit from project interventions when these are
replicated throughout the country. Farmers would benefit
from sustained and systematic support services designed to
address their specific needs. Production, especially that of
food crops, and farm income would be increased. The com-
ponent would also train a large number of artisans and small
private entrepreneurs in the prefecture. The country would
generally benefit from a more efficient and cost-effective
administration of key services to the rural population. The
MINAGRI Institutional Development component would have
sectorwide benefits through better planning, organization and
management of the Ministry. The project would sharpen the
technical skills of Ministry staff and improve the design,
management and cost effectiveness of services to the sector.
Risks:        The most important Project risk relates to budget allocations
from MINAGRI. Measures have been foreseen to assure adequate
funding to minimize project costs and to limit the financial
burden on Government to acceptable levels. Another important
risk relates to the innovativeness of the Project proposals
and the resulting changes required in the institutional be-
havior of the Ministry of Agriculture, especially in terms of
management. This risk is greatly reduced by the strong com-
mitment of the Government to the Project. A specific risk of
the Gitaram Agricultural Production Component is that of
running out of improved technical recommendations, but this
will be greatly reduced as the Agricultural Research Project
(Credit 1546 RW) begins to produce results. A specific risk
of the MINAGRI Institutional Development Component relates to
the need for qualified personnel. This risk would be
addressed through the training component.
Local     Foreign    Total
Estimated Project Costs:                               US$ million
I. Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
Technical assistance                       1.2         1.2       2.4
Civil works                                1.4         0.9       2.3
Training & research                       0.6          1.3       1.9
Vehicles & equipment                       0.6         1.2       1.8
Operating costs                           2.9          0.9       3.8
Base cost                                  6.7         5.5      12.2
Physical contingencies                    0.3          0.5       0.8
Price contingencies                        1.5         0.9       2.4
Total component cost                       8.5         6.9      15.4



(iii)
II. MINAGRI Institutional Development Component
Technical assistance                       0.5          1.9       2.4
Training                                   0.3         0.8        1.1
Vehicles & equipment                       0.2         0.5        0.7
Operating costs                            1.2         0.4        1.6
Base cost                                  2.2         3.6        5.8
Physical contingencies                     0.1         0.2        0.3
Price contingencies                        0.5         0.6        1.1
Total component cost                       2.8         4.4        7.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       11.3        11.3       22.6
(of which taxes)                        (1.1)        (-)       (1.1)
US$ Million Equiv.
Financing Plan:                            Local      Foreign    Total
IDA                                        3.8         8.9       12.7
UNDP                                       0.6         2.4        3.0
Government                                 5.8          -         5.8
TOTAL (without taxes)                     10.2        11.3       21.5
Taxes                                      1.1          -         1.1
Total (with taxes)                        11.3        11.3       22.6
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY  1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
US.$ million
Annual             0.5    1.3    2.4    3.2    3.2    1.9    0.2
Cumulative         0.5    1.8    4.2    7.4   10.6   12.5   12.7
Economic Rate of Return:  27% on the directly productive components of the
Gitarama Agricultural Production component
Appraisal Report: No. 5895-RW of February 19, 1986
Mbp: IBRD 19380



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR THE GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND
MINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a pro-
posed development credit to the Rwandese Republic in a total amount of
SDR 11.7 million (US$12.7 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to
finance the Gitarama Agricultural Production and MINAGRI Institutional
Development Project. The UNDP will provide US$3.0 million in
co-financing on a joint basis.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4059-RW) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1983 which discussed
economic developments in Rwanda until that date. These developments,
updated where possible, are summarized below. Country data are pro-
vided in Annex I.
3.        Rwanda's salient characteristics include its small size, an
anuual population growth rate of 3.7 percent (ranking among the highest
in Africa), a population density (in terms of agricultural land) of
about 390 per square km (slightly higher than that of India but about
four times that of Zaire and about eight times that of Tanzania), hilly
terrain and high average altitude, a landlocked position, lack of
natural resources (including shortage of arable land), underdeveloped
physical and institutional infrastructure, and a very low level of
development as measured by a variety of social as well as economic
indicators. These indicators include a per capita income of about
US$270 (1983), among the lowest in ihe world; an average life expect-
ancy of 44 years; and an adult literacy rate of 40 percent.
4.        The country is heavily dependent on agricultural exports
(coffee, tea, pyrethrum, cinchona) which provide 75 percent of its
foreign exchange earnings. Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and
the growth of modern manufacturing is limited by the small size of the
market and the lack of raw materials, marketing facilities, entrepre-
neurial skills, and skilled manpower. The country, consequently,
imports capital goods, steel, petroleum products, cement and other con-
struction materials, and virtually every modern consumer product. Its
merchandise trade is hampered by high transportation costs and depend-
ence on neighboring countries for access to the sea ports of Mombasa
and Dar-es-Salaam.



- 2 -
5.        Despite these constraints, Rwanda has made a creditable
effort toward economic and social development. During the 1976-80
period, the country managed to satisfy its subsistence needs and to
make important advances not only in agriculture but in other fields
such as education, health, water supply, and small-scale industry. It
succeeded in building basic transport and communication infrastructure
and set in place a state administrative apparatus serious about deve-
lopment. These achievements reflect the Government's commitment to
economic and social progress, as well as its prudent fiscal, balance of
payments and debt management policies. At the same time, Rwanda has
been able to attract substantial volumes of external aid from a great
diversity of sources, confirming donor perceptions that Government is
indeed development-oriented and is pursuing generally appropriate
objectives. The Government's efforts during this period were signi-
ficantly helped by favorable weather conditions and the coffee boom of
the late 1970's.
6.        Achievement and good fortune notwithstanding, development
efforts in Rwanda have not alleviated the fundamental problem which
continue to compromise development prospects: population growth, in-
creasingly at odds with land availability, an undiversified economic
structure, Government's limited capacity to provide social services,
and the economy's inability to generate jobs either outside or within
the rural sector. Though foodcrop output has increased sufficiently to
feed the growing population, it has apparently done Bo at a cost to the
land's long-term fertility. Agricultural land use in Rwanda has
reached a point where there is little fallow or grazing area left. The
rapidly growing population has resulted in serious deforestation,
accompanying erosion, and has required the cultivation of marginal
lands with a fragile ecology. Concomitant with these adverse trends
has been a deterioration of nutritional standards induced by the shift
to traditional high-yield, high-calorie, but low-protein crops. The
limited success of Government's efforts has been largely due to the
country's structural constraints (among them the critical population
problem), institutional weaknesses (stemming largely from shortage of
skilled personnel), and insufficiency of domestic financial resources.
At the same time, the shortage of skilled personnel, fragmentation of
institutional responsibilities, and poor interagency coordination have
limited the country's capacity to absorb external resources.
7.        The Rwandese authorities have taken steps to address these
problems. Of particular importance have been actions concerned with
the extremely rapid population growth, and the lack of education and
training. In 1981, the Government established the National Population
Office (ONAPO) to plan, coordinate, and monitor all population activi-
ties. ONAPO has started to sensitize the population about the implica-
tions of excessive demographic pressure on the country's limited re-
sources; a few pilot family planning programs have been set up; and a
nationwide fertility survey, now completed, is expected to provide
valuable information on the potential demand for family planning.
Obviously, the impact of these measures will be felt only in the
long run. To address the problem of lack of education and training,
the Government introduced an education reform in 1979 which - after



- 3 -                                                 I
subsequent adjustment - was responsive to the country's needs, but
whose implementation has been hampered by financial constraints and the
lack of teachers.
8.        A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's recent economic per-
formance can only be tentative, as the national account estimates have
serious shortcomings. These estimates suggest that, compared to the
period of 1978-1980, during which the GDP grew by about 6 percent annu-
ally, economic growth in Rwanda slowed down during 1983-1984 - GDP
grew on average by 3.3 percent p.a. - mainly on account of a downswing
in tertiary sector activities.   Balance of payments and budgetary con-
straints impinged heavily upon trade and transport activities whose
rapid growth in the past had been facilitated by greatly enlarged
avaiplabilities of foreign exchange and budgetary revenues. Budgetary
austerity measures introduced since 1983 resulted in stagnation of
Government's expenditures in real terms during the past two years.
Notwithstanding this domestic recession, the manufacturing sector ex-
panded its productive capacity and improved its capacity utilization
due, in part, to the import restrictions which limited foreign competi-
tion. Mining continued the decline that started in 1980 due to per-
sistent financial and management problems of the major mixed-ownership
company (SOMIRWA) which i8 now being liquidated. In agriculture, the
sluggish performance of the food crop production has been partially
offset by the rise in the production of export crops.
9.        Rwanda's external position came under strong pressure, as the
volume of imports continued to expand at a time when export earnings
were declining. Since 1981, the total value of exports has been con-
sistently below their 1977-80 levels, reflecting the decline in world
coffee prices rather than a shortfall in export volune. The terms of
trade deteriorated by about 24 percent between 1979 and 1984. In an
attempt to arrest the deterioration of the balance of payments, the
Government adopted - beginning in 1983 - what they expected would be
temporary measures, including licensing, prior deposit requirements and
increased import tariffs. The restrictions aimed mainly at curtailing
imports of non-essential consumption goods as well as those of locally
produced commodities. The Rwandese authorities also shifted the peg of
the Rwandese franc (in September 1983) from the US dollar to the SDR,
entailing a 5.2 percent depreciation vis-a-vis the US dollar. These
measures, coupled with some improvement in the terms of trade in 1984
(with respect to the 1981-1983 period) helped to reduce the current
account deficit to about 9 percent of GDP in 1984 as compared to 12 and
11 percent, respectively, in 1982 and 1983.
10.       On the budgetary side, the authorities failed to realize that
the high level of tax revenues recorded in 1979 and 1980 was a tempo-
rary phenomenon not justifying a permanent increase in expenditures.
This failure reflected a major weakness in the assessment of resource
availability and prospects. As a result, the sharp decline in revenues
from coffee export taxes beginning in 1981; together with increases in
current outlays (in order to achieve the social objectives of the
Plan), resulted in an overall budgetary deficit equivalent to about 2
percent of GDP in both 1982 and 1983 (as compared to a surplus of 0.9



-4-
percent in 1980.) Concern over the worsening budgetary situation led
Government to introduce corrective fiscal measures. In 1984, the
growth of current expenditures (in nominal terms) was limited to 2.3
percent (compared to 36 and 10 percent in 1981 and 1982, respecti-
vely). The growth of public sector employment was held under 0.5 per-
cent - the education sector was exempted in order to achieve the
revised targets of the 1979 Education Reform. This represented a major
break from Government's past policy of practically "guaranteeing'
employment to every secondary-school graduate. Large reductions were
also decided in net transfers to parastatals. Henceforth, state enter-
prises of a commercial or industrial nature will not be granted budg-
etary subsidies and will have to resort to commercial bank financing.
On the revenue side, despite an upward revision of import duties on
luxury goods and a more progressive tax structure on wages, the tax
ratio to GDP remained relatively low at 9 percent. The same austerity
measures have been included in the 1985 budget.
11.       Government has been traditionally conservative in its mone-
tary and credit policies. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly
from supply shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes
through neighboring countries, high international transport costs, and
Increased prices of imports and seasonal fluctuations in the price of
domestic foodstuffs. Inflation averaged 10.6 percent per annum during
1977-82, it peaked at 12.6 percent in 1982, reflecting mainly the sub-
stantial increases in electricity and water tariffs and educational
fees. In 1983 and 1984 inflation was down to 6.6 and 5.4 percent,
respectively.
12.       Rwanda has been one of the most favored beneficiaries of
foreign aid in recent years. Per capita disbursements of net official
development assistance (ODA) have been above US$30, much larger than
the average for Africa. During the period 1981-84, grants comprised
about 80 percent of total external aid flows, and were provided mainly
by Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, and France. In view of
its level of development, Rwanda will need external assistance for a
long time to come. Even maintaining per capita income at the current
low level - a very modest objective indeed - will require a continua-
tion of assistance at least at the current level, given population
growth and export constraints. The donor community should make efforts
to increase its assistance, provided Rwanda continues to pursue sound
macro-economic, sectoral (particularly in agriculture), and population
policies.
13.       Rwanda's medium- and long-term external public debt is rela-
tively small, amounting to US$220 million at end-1983, equivalent to
about 15 percent of GDP. Most of Rwanda's external debt was contracted
on highly concessionary terms; the grant element was over 70 percent on
average during the 1972-84 period. Due to the concessionary nature of
these loans, the debt service payments on mediumr- and long-term debt
are relatively low: 7.0 percent of exports of goods and nonfactor ser-
vices in 1984. Hence, there remains scope for further borrowing. How-
ever, given the poverty of the country, its overwhelming constraints
and vulnerability, and its unfavorable terms of trade prospects, exter-



-5-
nal funds should continue to be provided in the form of grants or loans
at highly concessionary terms, and include a high proportion of local
cost financing and non-project assistance.
PART II: THE BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE
14.       The Bank Group assistance, started in 1970, was initially
focused on the improvement of the road network and the strengthening of
agricultural production. As of January 31, 1986, Rwanda has received
twenty-four IDA credits totalling US$267.2 million: eight for agricul-
ture (34 percent); six for roads (30 percent); four for DFC's (10 per-
cent); two for power (9 percent); two for education (6 percent); one
for telecommunications (3 percent); two for technical assistance (4
percent); and one for water supply (5 percent). In addition, Rwanda
has received a Special African Facility Credit of US$15.0 million for
the Sixth Highway Project. There have been no Bank loans. Three IFC
investments (one of US$535,000 for a tea factory; a second of
US$226,000 with contingent equity commitment of up to US$60,000 to
expand the tea factory; a third of US$249,000 also to expand the tea
factory) were signed in 1976, 1980 and 1985, respectively. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC investments.
15.       In fiscal years 1982-84, disbursements for Rwanda totalled
US$49.1 million, compared to new commitments of US$86.2 million. The
annual disbursement rate increased steadily over this period, to reach
about 25 percent in FY85 which is above the average for countries of
the Eastern and Southern Africa Region.
16.       The Bank Group lending has been based on a country strategy
which has emphasized: (i) agriculture and rural development, the main
objective being to increase food production as well as export crops,
while maintaining soil fertility and considering the environment; (ii)
human resources development, focusing on support to basic education and
skills training to improve agricultural productivity, provide skilled
manpower, and influence attitudes on the population issue, and, more
recently, on family planning programs per se; (iii) infrastructure
development, particularly roads, to reduce the country's isolation and
to provide incentives to further intensification of agriculture as well
as increased specialization and diversification through better market-
ing; (iv) energy, to lessen the country's demand for fuel imports; and
(v) development of small and mediur-size enterprises in manufacturing
and other sectors.
17.       One of the major constraints to Rwanda's development is the
shortage of technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors
and inhibits project preparation and implementation. Intensive tech-
nical assistance and on-the-job training of Rwandese staff have, there-
fore, been a salient feature of the Bank Group program for Rwanda, both
under individual projects in various sectors, and through a free-
standing technical assistance project (Credit 1217-RW which became
effective in November 1982). This project has helped strengthen inter-
ministerial coordination, provided training to staff in the studies



-6-
units of concerned agencies, and contributed to improve the preparation
of the next five-year plan.
18.       The Bank Group program has been pursued in a climate of good
relations with the Government. In all sectors in which we are active,
there exist a general receptivity to our advice and willingness to take
action where required. In agriculture, improved sector management as
well as more rigorous project planning and financial controls have been
attained, with a shift away from integrated rural development schemes
towards more directly productive and sustainable projects. In the
highway sector, our active dialogue with the Ministry of Public Works
and Energy is now focusing on the ways to reduce reliance upon expatri-
ate expertise. In industrial development, we have gained Government's
commitment to promote small-scale enterprises. A positive dialogue
with the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (MIKIPRISEC) has
emerged in the past three years; the Ministry has revised its overly
ambitious education reform proposal and adopted a less costly and
lengthy primary cycle. On population, our initially cautious approach
to Government has developed into cooperative efforts to promote
suitable family health and planning programs.
19.       The Bank Group strategy continues to center on the five
sectors mentioned above (para. 16), with special emphasis on agricul-
ture and population. For the former, we give priority to: (i) promote
intensification by developing and strengthening Rwanda's agricultural
research and extension capabilities; and (ii) reinforce the key sector
institutions - the Rwandese Research Institute and the Ministry of
Agriculture. In the population sector, our program involves close
collaboration with the National Population Office (the agency respon-
sible for designing and promoting educational programs and service
delivery systems for family planning), support to maternal/child health
initiatives thro.gh the Ministry of Health, recently reorganized, and
to participate more effectively in other efforts to deal with Rwanda's
bourgeoning population problem.
20.       our dialogue with the Government continues to carry a macro-
economic dimension. Rwandese authorities have recently indicated
readiness to proceed with the preparation of an economic recovery pro-
gram ("Prograime de Relance"), and asked the Bank's assistance in its
formulation. A Bank economic mission recently visited Rwanda in res-
ponse to this request. The missionts work, which extended in particu-
lar over agriculture and mining sectors and public enterprises, will
help further strengthen the cooperation between Rwanda and the Bank at
the macroeconomic level.
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Agricultural Setting
21.       The topography of Rwanda is hilly to mountainous with
elevation and rainfall increasing from east to west. The country
covers an area of approximately 26,000 km2. Smallholder and rainfed
agriculture is the predominant feature of the economy. Population



pressure has resulted in diminishing farm size with more than half of
the farm families occupying less than 1 ha and another 30 percent
between 1 and 2 ha. Average annual rural family income is about US$550
(US$70 per capita). About half of Rwanda's land area can be used for
agriculture. Of this, 50 percent is planted in food crops: beans,
sweet potatoes, cassava, beer banana and sorghum (and more recently,
potatoes, maize and peas). About 5 percent is under export or
industrial crop cultivation, mainly coffee, but also tea and
approximately 40 percent is used as pasture land, wood lots and
fallow. Due to rapidly increasing population pressure, land
availability has declined and led to an intensification of agriculture
through double cropping.
22.       Up to the present, food production seems to have kept pace
with population growth, roughly maintaining national food self-suffi-
ciency. However, national statistics indicate that the growth of agri-
cultural output may be slowing down after a period of relatively strong
growth, 5.8 percent per annum in the period 1974-81. During the period
1981-84, the average annual growth rate of the sector was about 3.5
percent, less than the population growth rate. Commercial food imports
(mainly wheat, rice, oils, salt and sugar) accounted for about 8 per-
cent of total value of merchandise imports in 1984 (US$11 million).
Normal food aid flows in recent years have been in the order of 10,000
to 15,000 tons of cereals, beans, powdered milk and vegetable oils.
23.       Rwanda experienced substantial crop failures in 1984 due to
poor rain early in the year. The Government responded quickly to a
potential food crisis by assisting farmers to plant dry swamp lands and
river valleys. Donors provided an additional 27,000 tons of food aid,
the arrival of which was delayed due to transportation bottlenecks in
Kenya. The rainy season in late 1984 and 1985 has been good and general
recovery is proceeding well.
Sector Strategy
24.       The Third Development Plan (1982-86) reaffirms the predomi-
nant importance of the agricultural sector to the Rwandese economy and
stresses the need to focus greater resources on the critical con-
straints to increasing production at the farm level. The strategy
alms to: (a) reorient agricultural research to the needs and con-
straints of the traditional farm system and strengthen links between
research and extension; and (b) improve organization of field exten-
sion services. The Plan also described the need to expand agricultural
credit; develop food crop marketing, input services and storage; deve-
lop the cooperative movement; and strengthen technical manpower capa-
city through expansion of technical schools.
25.       The major constraints to implementing the sectoral strategy
include the Government's difficult budgetary situation, limited sector
planning and management capacity and the shortage of trained staff in
technical and management fields. Government has made important efforts



- 8 -
to improve its general planning capacity, especially with the UNDP/IDA
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1217-RW) chiefly designed to
strengthen the Ministry of Planning. Parallel efforts are also under-
way to improve the public finance management capability of the Ministry
of Finance (Cr. 1565-RW). In addition, the Government has recognized
that reinforcement of the programming, monitoring and evaluation, and
budgeting and financial control functions of MINAGRI is a prerequisite
to improving the effectiveness of Government policies and interventions
in the sector.
26.       A highly decentralized approach to development featuring
numerous integrated rural development (IRD) projects has added complex-
ity in coordinating interventions in the agricultural sector and in-
creased the Government's difficulty in formulating and implementing new
policies and national actions. Each IRD project has tended to intro-
duce a separate extension service, input supply mechanism, credit
system, etc., contributing to the fragmentation of such services
throughout Rwanda. External agencies have often contributed to this
situation because of insufficiently coordinated actions.
27.       There is an increasing concern in the Government that past
development efforts have generally not led to significant increases in
agricultural productivity or to viable and sustainable enterprises and
field services. This has prompted a closer scrutiny of proposed in-
vestments, a review of the organization of agricultural field services
and of policies toward agricultural subsidies. In addition, there is
an increasing awareness of the need for better policy analysis, project
preparation and for more effective monitoring, evaluation and control
of projects and services.
Government Financing of Agriculture
28.       Agricultural investments and services are financed from five
sources: the Government, external aid agencies, non-governmental orga-
nizations, the local communes, and the general population's collective
and compulsory contribution through public works projects (umuganda).
Government allocations to the sector in recent years have averaged
about RF 1,400 million (US$14 million). About 60 percent of this has
gone to operating costs of ongoing activities and 40 percent to the
Development Budget. Agriculture accounts for about 5 percent of the
total Operating Budget and about 15 percent of the Development Budget.
Allocations to the sector have remained largely unchanged in nominal
prices over the last three years and its share of the total has also
remained constant. The Government has been very successful in
attracting foreign assistance for the sector. The level of foreign aid
(mainly on ccncessional terms) has grown steadily in recent years;
expenditures in 1983 from multilateral and bilateral aid sources
amounted to approximately US$32 million. Non-governmental organiza-
tions were estimated to contribute about US$700,000 in 1983.



- 9 -
29.       Cost Recovery.  Direct cost recovery on agricultural services
is low, although it should be noted that the umuganda system can be
considered as a payment in kind, a sort of cost recovery. Under the
current Government policy, most inputs are subsidized to some extent.
In principle, farmers pay indirectly for extension services through
local taxes although the communal taxation system remains poorly orga-
nized and most communes cannot afford to pay more than a few agricul-
tural employees. The impact of subsidies on Government's budget has
not been large to date because most subsidies are financed by external-
ly financed projects (seed multiplication, insemination services, pro-
duction of tree seedlings and fertilizers imported on a grant basis,
etc.). The problem will increase as donor financing phases out.
30.       There is an increasing awareness in Government of the poten-
tial future impact of subsidies on the Government's budget. Improved
cost recovery for Government input distribution and services is now a
Government objective. Recent initiatives have been taken in some pro-
jects to provide vehicles (motorcycle and bicycles) to staff on a
credit basis, to rent underutilized transport or storage capacity to
the private or cooperative sectors at cost and to provide equipment
services at a fee to the local community. Some projects have intro-
duced greater cost recovery on project staff housing. Any future pro-
ject should incorporate cost recovery measures on inputs and services
provided to farmers, minimize the need for operating cost outlays by
Government and be carefully designed to ensure that such Government
outlays, which are required, can be supported. The proposed project
would address these questions (para 64).
Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
31.       IDA lending for the rural sector has amounted to US$92.4
million for eight operations. Through these projects, IDA has been
involved in development efforts in several ecological zones covering a
broad spectrum of regional development activities in all of the major
sub-sectors, food crops, export crops (coffee and cinchona), forestry
and livestock. Most projects have been of an integrated development
nature, involving substantial investments in agricultural extension
services, construction of roads and various economic and social infra-
structure, and project related research. The most recently-approved
operation in the sector, the Agricultural Research Project, represents
the first of a series of new types of projects aimed at addressing cri-
tical sectoral constraints.
32.       Performance Evaluation.  To date, there is only one project
(Hutara Agricultural Development Project - Phase I, Credit 439-RW) for
which both a completion report and a PPAR (Sec. M 81-570, 1981) have
been prepared. A Project Completion Report was recently issued for the
Bugesera Gisaka-Migongo - Phase I Project (Credit 668-RW) and a Project
Completion Report for the Cinchona Project (Cred±t 656-RW) is under
preparation. These projects resulted in a lower than expected incre-
ment in production and their economic impact was marginal. Being too
costly, they were not sufficiently sustainable. Among the successful
activities developed in these projects, on the other hand, are erosion
control, production and distribution of forestry and fruit tree seed-
lings, development of vegetable production and improvement of animal
health care.



- 10 -
33.       Rwanda's agricultural experience from these and other ongoing
IDA-supported projects suggests that a number of technical, institu-
tional and financial issues must be addressed if the strategic objec-
tive of increasing production is to be attained. Issues affecting pro-
ject performance include: (a) poor database, insufficient knowledge
of Rwanda's complex farming systems leading to poor identification and
adaptation of appropriate technical packages and inadequate monitoring
of project progress; (b) project complexity and lack of training and
experience of Rwandese management and staff; (c) excessive diversity of
project institutional and organizational systems made unmanageable by
weak agricultural planning, project preparation, financial control and
technical central ministry departments; (d) insufficient attention to
recurrent cost financing; and (e) scarcity of technical messages for
agricultural improvement at the farm level. Other important constraints
to agricultural development are unclear sub-sector policies and invest-
ment priorities and poor coordination of donor-supported activities.
34.       IDA's sectoral dialogue and lending strategy is based on
these lessons of experience and on a more general analysis of sector
perfoiLmance. In-depth discussions with the Government in November 1983
led to the main recoumendation to move away from an exclusive emphasis
on IRD-type projects (still the most coumon model of bilateral and mul-
tilateral donor-financed projects in Rwanda) which have not resulted in
the development of economically viable and replicable technical support
services to the agricultural sector. As a result of sector discus-
sions, priority areas retained for medium-term lending include: (a)
development of Government agricultural services essential for agricul-
tural intensification, agricultural and veterinary extension, credit
services and other agricultural services; (b) institution building to
strengthen planning, project preparation, monitoring and evaluation,
financial budgeting and control and training; (c) development of pri-
vate sector services for agricultural marketing, input supply and agri-
cultural produce processing; (d) further export crop development; and
(e) identification and implementation of technical training priorities.
35.        The proposed operation would be the second IDA-financed pro-
ject to support fully the above sector strategy, as it would address
key issues of developing national agricultural services (extension in
particular) and sectoral management. Other projects currently under
preparation are designed also to contribute to the implementation of
this strategy. A Second Forestry Project is intended to strengthen
Government's efforts to implement its national forestry policy, with
strong emphasis on the development of the institutional capacity needed
for management of the sub-sector. Other projects are intended to
strengthen the national services related to livestock and coffee.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project we.s appraised in June/July 1985. An
advance from the Project Preparation Facility for US$980,000 was ap-



- 11 -
proved on November 7, 1985 to accelerate implementation. Negotiations
were held in Washington In December 1985. The Government's delegation
was led by Dr. Dismas Nsengiyaremye, Secretary-General, Ministry of
Agriculture. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled 'Rwanda - Gitarama
Agricultural Production and MINAGRI Institutional Development Project",
Report No. 5895-RW, dated February 19, 1986, is being distributed
separately. The main features of the project are highlighted in the
Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this report. Special
conditions of the Credit are summarized in Annex III. A map is
attached.
ObJectives and Project Description
37.       The proposed project would include two distinct components
designed to support the sector strategy outlined above.  The first is
the Gitarama Agricultural Production Component which would be the pilot
phase of a national agricultural extension and agriculture service
organization, and of a national program for promoting private and
cooperative investment in agriculture, agro-processing and marketing.
The service systems developed on a pilot basis under this project are
intended to be more efficient than existing systems, replicable at the
national level and institutionally and financially sustainable. In
addition, the project would include the financing of a study for the
development of the Nyabarongo Valley, a marsh area of considerable
potential for agricultural intensification. The MINAGRI Institutional
Development Component would strengthen the institution-building process
within MINAGRI to improve agricultural sector planning and management.
A. The Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
38.       The region chosen for implementation of pilot activities in
the project is the Gitarama prefecture. It covers about 8 percent of
the country's total area, with about 12 percent of the country's popu-
lation (723,000 in 1983 with 3.7 percent annual growth rate). The
population is almost entirely agricultural. Food crops are the princi-
pal activity and coffee is the main industrial crop representing 20
percent of Rvanda's production. Livestock traditionally plays an
Important role. The prefecture displays all of the institutional and
farming problems faced by Rwanda. Specific problems which improved
services would need to address are: (a) mounting pressure on land
leading to a decrease in soil fertility and diminishing farm size; (b)
chronic shortage of wood (fuelvood in particular); (c) shortage of
animal feed; and (d) plant and animal diseases not adequately treated
for lack of services and products. Although to a lesser degree than
the rest of the country, the Gitarama prefecture benefits from a number
of small scale, scattered interventions by official multi-lateral (ILO
and UNICEF) and bilateral (Federal Republic of Germany, France and
Belgium) assistance and NGOs (e.g. Catholic Relief Service).
39.       The main features of the component would be:
(i) Identification and introduction to farmers in Gitarama of
specific agricultural recommendations designed to increase
productivity of land and labor and to increase farm income.



- 12 -
(ii) Introduction of a unified extension management system with
adequate support and supervision of field staff, regular
in-service training, monitoring and evaluation, better staff
incentives and increased mobility.
(iii) Support to improve production and distribution of plant
material.
(iv) Support to veterinary services, comunal forestry services
and anti-erosion activities.
(v) Support for the Banques Populaires' credit activity in terms
of developing new credit instruments, lending techniques,
staff and infrastructure.
(vi) Assistance to cooperatives, informal farmers' groups, arti-
sans and private enterprises in order to develop agro-
processing, marketilg and farm input supply activities.
Extension and Agricultural Services
40.       The Adaptive Research Approach.  The approach proposed under
the component is an adapted form of farming systems research, starting
with a survey to identify common farmer constraints. Certain of these
constraints (e.g. varietal improvement) could be addressed by the
National Research Institute (ISAR), being strengthened under the
Agricultural Research Project. Others (e.g. farming practices, crop
husbandry, soil fertility management) would be subjected to on-farm
testing because of their site specificity. Such testing would be
carried out by the extension service, ISAR scientists would be made
available to assist in on-farm test design and the preparation of
research protocoles and ISAR's facilities would be used for laboratory
analysis. ISAR's involvement would be the subject of an annual
agreement with MINAGRI's extension service, which would be presented to
IDA for approval together with a detailed work program and budget. Two
ISAR scientists would have specific responsibility for carrying out
ISAR's program in the Gitarama prefecture. Presentation of a
satisfactory formal contractual arrangement for Year 1 would constitute
a condition of Credit effectiveness.
41.       Development and Introduction of Specific Extension Packages.
The design of the component is based on the strengthening of agri-
cultural services for greater efficiency in the extension of proven
extension packages; and on-farm testing of promising new farming prac-
tices for immediate extension once proven acceptable to farmers. Crop
specific messages for the most important crops in the area such as
coffee, bananas, soybeans and maize already exist. In addition, the
following more general themes have proven successful and would continue
to be extended: intensification of livestock production, increased
usage and improvement of compost and farm yard manure, plant
protection, soil conservation and erosion control and continued
reafforestation of marginal lands through umuganda. After one to three



- 13 -
years of on-farm testing, a number of additional packages may become
available for further extension, including crop specific messages
(e.g., for haricot beans and tubers), and more general themes of soil
conservation, agro-forestry and livestock production.
42.       The Extension System.  The proposed extension methodology
results from the lessons of experience accumulated over the years in a
number of projects financed by the Government, IDA and other donors
(e.g. Belgium, Switzerland, Federal Republic of Germany and France). A
seminar on extension held in July 1984 was attended by representatives
of all important ongoing agricultural development projects and those of
the donor community, and its outcome served as the basis of project
design. The project would start in one sous-prefecture to test the
proposed adaptive research (para. 40) and extension systems. After two
years, the remaining three sous-prefectures would be added to the
system. The organization of the extension system would parallel the
present administrative organization. MINAGRI has nominated a
prefecture agricultural coordinator who would be assisted by a deputy
and a chief accountant and would report to the Director of Agricultural
Promotion who has been nominated 'fonctionnaire dirigeant for the
component. (In the Rwandese administration, a "fonctionnaire
dirigeant is a high level staff member in a ministry, appointed by the
Government to be responsible for proper implementation of a particular
project.) A sub-prefecture agricultural officer for each of the four
sub-prefectures would be responsible for the supervision of the
adaptive research team and the communal extension officers, who in turn
would directly supervise 171 field extension agents. With the proposed
system, essentially T&V adapted to local social and institutional
structures, extension agents working within the framework of a rigorous
time schedule including farm visits, training and reporting would cover
all crop, livestock and agro-forestry activities. On average, there
would be one extension agent to every 750 farm families, each agent
working more directly with a limited number of contact farmers under an
adapted training and visit system. Among the special social
adaptations envisaged under the project is the inclusion of female
cadres within the extension service, which is expected to heighten
receptivity of female farmers.
43.       Support Services.  Communal technical officers would be res-
ponsible for organization of and support to selected agricultural ser-
vices in the prefecture, including production, quality control and sale
of improved plant material; erosion control activities; production,
quality control and sales of forest and fruit tree seedlings and
establishment of communal forestry plans; provision of animal health
services (veterinary dispensaries and initial stock of veterinary
products); and initial sales of agricultural inputs (fertilizers and
pesticides) and implements. Procurement and distribution of inputs
would eventually be handled by the private and cooperative sectors. In
the start-up period, the project would finance initial expenses
sufficient to initiate distribution of inputs, until farmer demand is
sufficiently developed to interest private entrepreneurs. It is also
expected that additional revenues to be generated from wood-cutting
activities through better control and management of communal forests



- 14 -
would allow the communes to increase their present budget allocations
to agriculture. MINAGRI would enter into a contractual relation with
each commune before March 31, 1986 under which the modalities of the
communes' contribution to agricultural development activities will be
specified.
44.       The  main activities of the component-development and intro-
duction of specific extension packages and introduction of a reor-
ganized extension system-plus the provision of support services would
be initially introduced in one sub-prefecture only. Two years after
project start-up, each of these sub-components would be reviewed by the
Government and IDA, and if necessary, amended prior to introducing
these systems in the remaining three sub-prefectures. IDA funds for
these three sub-prefectures would be made available upon the conclu-
sions of the review and only after all higher level staff has been
appointed. Government has endorsed the creation of the new extension
and agricultural services structure, which represents a substantial
departure from existing systems.
45.       Training.  Training supported under the component would aim
to: (a) upgrade the technical knowledge of extension and services staff
at all levels; (b) improve communication skills of all staff so they
can effectively share ideas with farmers and with each other; (c)
improve teaching capability at all management and technical levels; and
(d) orient local administrative staff, particularly in the communes, to
the new organization of agricultural extension and services. The pro-
ject would provide funds for carrying out training programs as
discussed with Government, including intensive and regular in-service
training sessions, seminars and visits to other relevant projects for
higher level staff (including in other countries).
46.       Civil Works, Equipment and Transportation.  Due to a shortage
of office facilities, offices, storage buildings and houses for higher
level staff would be constructed in each sub-prefecture. Housing for
these staff would be made available against payment of rental fees to
be deducted as a fixed percentage of salaries according to present
practice; these fees would be collected and managed by the prefecture
coordinator and used to maintain buildings. Extension workers would
purchase motorcycles and bicycles along the same principle. Repayment
amounts would be calculated on the basis of replacement value and they
would be deducted from monthly salary checks and deposited into a bank
account to be managed by MINAGRI and used to purchase new vehicles as
required.
Promotion and Financing of Agricultural Processing, Marketing and Farm
Input Supply
47.       This sub-component would consist of providing a program of
support to institutions involved in the promotion and financing of



- 15 -
agriculture, agro-processing and marketing and farm input supply in
Gltarama, including: establishment and maintenance of an Investment
Promotion Office; support to the Banques Populaires' credit activities;
assistance to cooperatives and farmers' groups; and support to the
artisanal sector (artisans and private enterprises). The Investment
Promotion Office would be responsible for coordinating and contracting
all promotion activities to various institutions.
48.       Support to the Banques Populaires. Despite its ample supply
of lending funds, Banques Populaires' credit operations to support
agriculture and agro-related activities are limited. The component
would support the efforts of the Banques Populaires to increase lending
for these activities in the Gitarama prefecture. It includes
construction and operating costs for two years of a new branch of the
Banques Populaires in Gitarama, and financing during the same period
for two branch agents who would explore new credit opportunities and
monitor loans in communes not directly served by Banques Populaires.
The Banques Populaires would be able to absorb the costs for these
activities if the experience proves successful. A prerequisite for
disbursement would be signature of a contractual agreement between
ITNAGRI and the Banques Populaires.
49.       Support to Cooperatives and Farmers' Groups.  The component
would provide support to cooperatives and farmers' groups through the
Cooperative Service Center in Gitarama (CSCG) created in 1985 by the
Belgian NGO "les Compagnons Batisseurs" (COOPIBO) and the Cooperative
Research and Training Center (IWACU). CSCG would carry out cooperative
management and organize consultancies, investment studies, seminars and
training. It is expected that CSCG would become self-sustaining and
recurrent costs would eventually be recovered from service fees. A
prerequisite for disbursement would be signature of a five year
contract between MINAGRI and COOPIBO to serve as a framework of CSCG's
intervention.
50.       Support to the Artisanal Sector.  The component would support
the artisanal sector through activities similar to those undertaken
with ILO assistance in Kigali and Butare and scheduled for Gisenyi and
Ruhengeri, i. e., promotion of self-organization and grouping of the
artisans with the aim of obtaining official registration; training;
procurement of raw materials and equipment; promotion of credit for
equipment; and promotion of research and development, e. g. for adapted
storage and processing technologies. An agreement between HINAGRI and
the ILO for the provision of support for the implementation of the
proposed activities would be signed. An innovation fund of RF 6.3
million (US$63,000) would be managed by the Investment Promotion Office
and made available for adaptive research in innovative agricultural
processing and marketing techniques not eligible for commercial
credit. The terms and conditions of the innovation fund would be
specified in each year's annual work plan but would remain flexible.
Nyabarongo Valley Master Plan Study
51.        The component would finance technical, economic and finan-
cial studies of various alternatives for development of the Nyabarongo
Valley. The marsh area, which is regularly inundated, covers approxi-



- 16 -
mately 20,000 ha, of which about 15,000 ha would be suitable for agri-
culture.  The valley is one of the last land resources available.  Its
development has been an objective of Government for some time, but
there are several financial and technical issues to be resolved, which
the proposed study would address. The study would be executed in
several phases. At the end of each step, consultants would prepare a
draft report for comments by the Government and the Bank, followed by a
final report. The Government would employ the institutional framework
that exists under the on-going First TA Project (Cr. 1217-RW),  which
consists of a Study Fund that finances short-term consultants for
studies recom_ended by an interuinisterial coordinating comittee.
Short-term international consultants would be financed under Credit
1217-RW to assist the Direction of Rural Works in reviewing each phase
of the study. A co_mmittee including representatives of the ministries
concerned would be created to ensure monitoring of the study. The
Government has prepared detailed terms of reference and a short list of
consulting firms agreeable to IDA.
B. The HINAGRI Institutional Development Component
52.      The component aims to strengthen the major functional areas of
the Secretariat-General in the Hinistry of Agriculture (MINAGRI)
through reinforcement of the prograxing, monitoring and evaluation,
and budgeting and financial control functions. In addition, it would
provide technical documentation and selected training for staff of
H-N&GRI's technical departments. The component is conceived as the
first phase of a longer-term effort to rationalize the organization of
MINAGRI's management and technical services at the central and field
levels, to sharpen the technical skills of ministry staff, and to
improve the design, management and cost-effectiveness of agricultural
services. While project assistance would be directed primarily at the
functions of the Secretariat-General during this phase, a general re-
view of the operations and organization of MINAGRI's technical depart-
ments would be carried out to identify appropriate ways to strengthen
these services.
53.       The design and content of the proposed component reflect a
number of areas to be improved in the institution building process.
These include: (a) the need for rigorous recruitment, selection and
training of staff essential for upgrading of the Secretariat-General
functions; (b) the need to define the role of technical assistance more
clearly; (c) the need to integrate all project management functions
within the structure of the Secretariat-General; and (d) the importance
of streamlining data storage, retrieval and routine analysis.
54.       Over a five-year period (1986-90) the component would support
the following institution-strengthening activities: (a) sector planning
and project preparation; (b) ministry staff training ; (c) monitoring
and evaluation of projects and agricultural services; (d) accounting,
financial management and control of projects and services; (e)
documentation and diffusion of technical publications and other
information; (f) general administration including personnel management,



- 17 -
budgeting, correspondence and archives; and (g) assistance for the
computerization of the above activities.
55.       The institution-building measures proposed for strengthening
the operating units of the Secretariat-General would involve recruit-
ment of additional staff in most of the units (and a reduction of per-
manent staffing needs in some units facilitated by the gradual intro-
duction of computers), short and long term training to reinforce staff
capabilities and introduce new skills, technical assistance and short
term consultancies in specialized fields, office equipment and vehi-
cles. In addition, the project would include a study for construction
of adequate physical facilities for the Ministry of Agriculture in
Kigali.
Project Organization and Management
56.       The project would be implemented over a five-year period
under the overall reeponsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Live-
stock and Forestry, and within the ministry by the Secretary General.
There would be no separate project implementation unit. Technical and
administrative management of the Gitarama Agricultural Production com-
ponent would be the responsibility of the already appointed
'fonctionnaire dirigeant", the Director of Agricultural Promotion in
the General Direction of Agronomy in the ministry. He would have
direct authority over all MINAGRI's staff in the Gitarama prefecture
and would insure general administration of the component. There would
be distribution of responsibilities to persons in charge of each
functional unit according to MINAGRI's proposed organization
structure. This organizational structure would be used to manage
agricultural services throughout the country as successful activities
are replicated.
57.         At the prefecture level, the overall manager of the various
MINAGRI services would be the prefecture agricultural coordinator who
has been appointed.   A sub-prefecture officer would maintain links
with local authorities; his appointment would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. A Management Committee, headed by the fonctionnaire
dirigeant' and including representatives from MINAGRI, and the
ministries responsible for finance, economics and planning, the
prefecture and the sub-prefectures would have effective decision power
over programming and budgeting activities. In particular, it would
review and approve annual work plans for the component.  Coordination
mecicanisms would be established at all levels of the proposed
organizational structure to insure participation of and support from
local authorities and existing private and public institutions.
Management of the promotion sub-component would be the responsibility
of the promotion coordinator in Gitarama, whose recruitment would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness. He would be assisted by a
Programming and Monitoring Steering Committee under the chairmanship of
the prefecture agricultural cccr-inator, and in which all implementing
institutions would participate.



- 18 -
58.       The proposed institutional development program under the
MINAGRI Institutional Development Component would be carried out within
the organizational structure of the Secretariat-General with the day-
to-day administration delegated to MINAGRI's Director of the Studies
and Planning Department (DEP) as 'fonctionnaire dirigeant" of the com-
ponent. He would coordinate the preparation and subsequent monitoring
of the Annual Work Plan and relevant periodic reports on implementa-
tion. The coordination of training and consultancies would be handled
by an agro-economist to be recruited internationally for DEP. The
organization of local staff training seminars and identificatioa of
overseas training courses would be the responsibility of the technical
assistance team (recruited internationally under the component or
financed under parallel bilateral arrangements) working together with
the heads of all units of the Secretariat-General of MINAGRI.
Appointment of key high level national staff necessary for start-up is
coneidered critical and their qualifications would be acceptable to
IDA. An economist and an agroeconomist for this component have already
been appointed. Recruitment of two accountants, one for each
component, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
59.       At the end of year 2 of the component, the Ministry would
carry out a comprehensive review of the functional and structural
organization of the Secretariat-General and the technical departments.
The principal objectives of this review, which would be discussed with
IDA, would be to: (a) institutionalize the results of the new
extension and services organization to be tested in the Gitarama
prefecture; (b) analyze the respective roles of the technical services
and the Secretariat-General; (c) review the organization of financial
management functions of the Ministry; and (d) determine future staffing
and training needs of MINAGRI at the central and field levels.
60.       Technical Assistance Requirements.  Technical assistance
requirements include long-term experts as well as short-term specia-
lists. Three of the expatriate posts are currently filled and financed
under bilateral aid agreements or IDA-financed projects and would con-
tinue to be financed under these arrangements. New positions include
an agro-economist, an agro-industry specialist, a monitoring and evalu-
ation specialist, an accounting expert, a computer analyst/programuer,
and a financial management expert. The financial management specialist
has already been appointed. There would also be short-term periodic
assistance of documentary, archival and personnel management
specialists. Eventual reductions in the requirements for technical
assistance resulting from increased availability of qualified local
staff would be agreed between Government and IDA. IDA would be given
an opportunity to comment on the detailed terms of reference for the
positions to be filled by experts financed under separate bilateral aid
agreements before their recruitment.
61.       Annual Work Plans.  Implementation of all project activities
would be carried out on the basis of annual plans and budgets approved



- 19 -
by the Secretary General. These would be prepared by mid-September of
each year and submitted to IDA for review and approval. The annual
plans and budgets would detail each component objectives and targets
for the year in question, specific activities to be carried out, and
the human and financial resources including consultant and training
needs for carrying out the proposed work program.
Project Costs and Financing
62.       Total costs for the project are estimated at about US$22.6
million, of which 51 percenr or US$11.3 million represent foreign ex-
change costs. Costs of the Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
are about US$15.4 million (of which 45 percent or US$6.9 million are
foreign exchange costs) and costs of the MINAGRI Institutional Develop-
ment Component are about US$7.2 million (of which 61 percent or US$4.4
million are foreign ex'hange costs). Base costs are In end-1985
prices. Costs include direct taxes of about 10 percent on civil works,
all equipment and operating costs with the exception of salaries, but
exclude import duties, which would be waived. Physical contingencies of
15 percent were included for contracts to be signed between MINAGRI and
Banques Populaires, COOPIBO and IL0 (paras 48-50), and 10 percent for
civil works, all equipment and operating costs. Price contingencies
have been estimated on a cumulative bisis at a rate of 10 percent per
annum for 1986-88 and 7.0 percent for 1989/90 for local costs and at a
rate of 7 percent for 1986/87, 7.5 percent for 1988, 7.7 percent for
1989 and 7.6 percent for 1990 for foreign costs.
63.       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 11.7 million (US$12.7 million)
would cover 59 percent of total costs (excluding taxes) and 100 percent
of foreign expenditures. Of this amount, SDR 9.3 million (US$10.2
million) would be for the Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
and SDR 2.3 million (US$2.5 million) for the MINAGRI Institutional
Development component.   Under a separate project eocumeut UNDP is to
provide a US$3.0 million grant for institutional support to the MINAGRI
Including the full cost of the study for construction of a MINAGRI
building. IDA would be its executing agency. The Government would
finance 27 percent of the funds required for the project.
64.       Cost Recovery. While the cost of providing inputs to the
extension agents for research and demonstration purposes would not be
recovered under the Gitarama component, the cost of providing inputs to
farmers would be recovered with a premium of at least 20 percent above
costs, in order to provide incentive to the private sector to
eventually supply these inputs. Additional cost recovery measures
Include housing maintenance fees and a credit scheme for extension
vehicles (para. 46). The cost of other project investments (extension
services and promotion activities) would not be directly recovered from
the beneficiaries since there are not yet cost recovery mechanisms for
these services.



- 20 -
Disbursement and Procurement
65.       Disbursements.  The typical disbursement profile for Rwanda
is eight years. However, since procurement and disbursements would be
monitored by a technical assistant, a six-year disbursement schedule is
considered reasonable for the project.  Funds from the Credit would be
disbursed on the following basis: (a) 70 percent of total expenditures
for civil works; (b) 90 percent of local expenditures and 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for vehicles, equipment, training, studies, and
agricultural inputs; (c) 100 percent of all expenditures for technical
assistance. For the Gitarama Agricultural Production component, the
Credit would cover (d) 40 percent of total expenditures for operating
costs up to a maximum of US$365,000 equivalent, then 20 percent up to a
maximum of US$178,500 equivalent. A separate disbursement category was
made for expenditures related to ISAR's research activities under the
project, with the same percentages as (b)(c) above, and 40 percent of
total expenditures for operating costs up to a maximum of US$26,000
equivalent, then 20 percent up to a maximum of US$4,000 equivalent.
66.       A Special Account would be established in US dollars at the
National Bank of Rwanda or a commercial bank under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA.-It would be replenished upon receipt of documentary
evidence to be provided by project management. Claims for
reimbursement would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) for: (i) civil works contracts costing less than US$50,000
equivalent; (ii) vehicles, equipment, goods, training and operating
costs for single items or contracts costing less than US$15,000
equivalent; and (iii) consulting services contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent. In order to insure that Government counterpart
funds would be available when needed, the Government would set up two
project accounts, one for the Gitarama component with an initial
deposit of RF 15 million, and one for the MINAGRI component with an
initial deposit of RF 5 million, which is a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
67.       Procurement.  Rwanda's procurement procedures are being
reviewed by an IDA assessment mission. Although its report has not
been completed, local procedures are understood to be generally
acceptable. Contracts for the supply of materials and equipment
exceeding US$100,000 (total cost US$3.2 million) would be procured
through international competitive bidding following the Bank's
guidelines. All equipment contracts estimated to cost over US$50,000
but less than US$100,000 would be procured through local competitive
bidding. All equipment contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000
(an aggregate not to exceed US$0.6 million) would be procured based on
price quotations from at least three local suppliers. Civil works
(US$2.9 million) would be too small to attract the interest of
international contractors and would be expected to be locally
procured. Operating cost (US$6.9 million) expenditures other than
salaries exceeding US$1,000 would require price quotations from at
least three suppliers while expenditures costing less than US$1,000
could be made by direct purchase from one supplier only. All IDA



- 21 -
financed expatriate staff to be recruited would be internationally
recruited following procedures acceptable to IDA. Studies to be
financed under the project would be carried out by consultants selected
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The planned procurement
procedures are summarized in Annex IV.
Accounting. Auditing and Reporting
68.       Accounts adequate to explain all component activities would
be maintained by the management of both components. Project accounts
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. TORs for
the auditors would be submitted for IDA approval by March 31, 1987.
The auditors would specifically review and comment on the procedures
used for disbursement against Statements of Expenditures. The audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of
each fiscal year. Progress reports would be prepared by December 31
and June 30 of each year and submitted to IDA. A project completion
report for both components would be prepared by June 30, 1991 and
submitted to IDA.
Benefits and Risks
69.       The main benefit of the Gitarama pilot component of exten-
sion, agriculture services and promotion activities would be a more
effective delivery system of these services in a rational, sustainable
manner for eventual replicability on a national level. The component
would develop models for improved extension research linkage, seed pro-
duction, forestry and agro-forestry. Development of a cost recovery
mechanism and participation by the private sector and local community
would be featured. The component would focus on delivery of existing,
proven technical messages as well as experimenting with results of
applied research in order to recommend new technologies adapted to the
various farm situations. This should result in increased agricultural
production, benefitting about 50,000 farmers, mostly smallholders,
virtually all of whom are in the poverty target group, during the
project period but leading eventually to the whole farming population
if the pilot activities prove successful. Better availability of
inputs, extension advice, access to credit and marketing opportunities
should benef:t the rural population through increased production, which
would generate more revenue as well as greater marketable production.
This in turn would induce development of the agriculture-related
private and cooperative marketing and processing sectors and of the
artisanal sector. It should be emphasized that incremental production
is not expected to result from the use of farm inputs only, but more
from a progressive transformation of the various farming systems.
70.    Economic analysis has been done to quantify the net incremental
benefits of the directly productive incremental costs of the Gitarama
component. The economic rate of return (ERR), estimated at 27 percent,
would fall to 11 percent from a combination of 20 percent cost increase
and 20 percent reduction in benefits. Although expected to remain at a



- 22 -
satisfactory level (unless extreme cost increases are experienced), the
ERR is not seen as the main justification of the component whose direct
objective is to experiment with a new extension system to be replicated
nation-wide. The adoption rate of existing and future technical
recommendations by farmers is an important element of project viability
which depends not only on the efficiency of the extension system but
also on marketing prospects. This rate should be above 20 percent,
that is, less than half that assumed in the design of the component,
for the rate of return to be at least 10 percent.
71.       The MINAGRI Institutional Development Component would support
the process of institution building within the Secretary-General's
office. It would help to develop the systems, procedures and com-
petence necessary to improve agricultural sector planning and manage-
ment. In the medium to long term, it would contribute to rationaliza-
tion of the organization of MINAGRI's management and technical services
at the central and field levels, sharpening the technical skills of
ministry staff, and improving the design, management and cost-effect-
iveness of agricultural services to both male and female farmers.
72.       Risks. The main risks of the Gitarama Agricultural Produc-
tion component include: (a) insufficient budgetary allocations, for
which the project would include revolving funds and cost recovery where
possible (farmer inputs, maintenance of buildings, credit scheme for
renewal of vehicles); (b) commitment at field level to the principle
of restructuring agricultural services, for which measures were taken
during project preparation to involve as many Rwandeze as possible in
discussion of the need to reorganize; and (c) generation of adequate
research findings on which to base future extension recommendations,
for which the project would support field testing of research results
and increased coordination between extension and research to ensure a
continuous flow of recommendations.
73.       The risks of the MINAGRI Institutional Development Component
include: (a) the ambitious staffing and selection program to place
qualified personnel in HINAGRI, for which timely Identification and
appointment of key staff is being carried out now; (b) relevant train-
ing of staff for the eventual "Rwandization- of the services of the
MINAGRI, which would be critical and for which the Government has com-
mitted itself by requesting IDA to finance this component; and (c)
willingness of technical assistance specialists, provided under the
project and financed by bilateral assistance, to support Government
efforts to organize coherent systems and procedures in the MINAGRI,
which was minimized during preparation by frequent consultation with
other donors who would provide the needed technical assistance.



- 23 -
PART V: RECOMMNDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Execu-
tive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 19 1986



24 -                                             Annex I
^,;  la                                           Page 1 of 6
- 1OCT4AL Im C 0g          g hZITDAUS)!
m?T                     CHOuET cu( IR S UTINATE) /b
uest          AL  I   A MRICA            MIULK 130013
1wl0t  1§      C0Mad                               AFRewo    sICh S. oF SAM
aU (mo  EQ m
TOTAL                              26.3        26.3       26.3
AGICULTURA                         15.0        15.2       14..
IR C A (CM)                            ..         ..        270.0             236.8                   1063.8
m   minim wua CAPT
(Kn.OoN  OF OIL QIIVALNT           10.0       11.0        18.0              62.3                    561.S
POFUATX=.NID-UAR (TVAUSA)   2753.0          395.0       5674.0
UU    POPULATION (3 OF TOTAL)       2.4        3.2         4.3              20.1                     32.0
PWOPLATION IEONCT?0U
IPOOLATIK IN  A 2000 (MIL                               10.2
POR MATU (NEIL.40.0
IPOHILATII303113                                         2.0
?O10LATIOU DISS11T
Paz EQ. 31K.                    106.5       140.3      215.4              33.2                     65.1
_u uq. M  AGRE. LAN             114.1       242.9      370.9             112.8                    124.6
FU#ATI. AlN S3aUC11131 (U
0-14 13                         44.2        45.6       46.6              *6.0                     45.6
Iff*G4 us                        53.0       51.5        50.5              50.8                     51.5
65 AIS A8                         2.6         2.7        2.8               2.9                      2.7
POPULAIOU auw. RATE CZ)
TOTAL                             2.6         2.9        3.3               21                       2.9
0333                              s5.5       s.8         6.3               6.4                      5.1
CiEuE 322=1 3    (PFM TWA)         51.1       51.6        51.9              47.2                     47.0
CROW DLA21 RUt (Pu 230S)           19.2       17.6        19.4              17.6                     15.0
crassunpicE   LUX                   3.5        3.6         4.1               3.3                      3.2
1A3W.? PULANag
A g. AIL (os)                ..
u     ( O1 QN1A1 D W1113)         ..          ..         1.0               3.3                      6.4
FOO AM  NRU
213 01 1000 P3OD. Pu CAPrT
(1969-71-100)                      61.0      102.0       107.0              63.3                     82.9
Pu CaPIm SUPPY o
CAL0SZU (Z 0T EZQMIUUT)          81.0       65.0        88.0              67.7                     98.5
ii;Dn   (mANS U DAT)             49.0        54.0       50.0              51.9                     55.4
0 WRI ANDIIL AM10 101.31        26.0       33.0        29.0 IC           16.7                     16.5
C_lLD (AGES 1-4) DRA2R M3TZ        37.5       32.5        26.0              23.1                     16.6
amm
LSFE UPECT. AT 321U  CTEAS)        44.2       46.0        46.5              47.6                     52.0
uuraarr W.  8 (Pu DOII)           166.5      149.5       123.0             119.5                    1061
ACCZS TO SAFE VATIR (1101)
TOAL                              ..          ..         6 O              27.1                     42.4
IIUU                              ..          ..        48.0              63.5                     67.5
3UL                               ..          ..        55.0              19.3                     35.3
ACCESS 70  I!A  D     lS?OSA
tS or roruLAnon)
TOTAL                             ..         53.0       S1.  d            26.5                     28.9
Ull                               ..        03.0        6o0.              65.4                     57.7
M1L                               ..        52.0        50.0              20.8                     20.7
10111103 PU PlYSICIAI          139050.0 J@  59600.0    31340.0            7901.7                  11791.7
pOr. Pu sual3  P30              11270.0   7 U20.0       979.0             3300.4                   2459.8
PMP. Pu  0ITAL MD
TOTAL                             ..       790.0       650.0 #d         1273.6                    981.1
IUlm                              ..        50.0        50.0 7           A26.2                    366.8
RURAL                                     3100.0      1600.  j          3292.5                   4371.9
AD*NSS6S PU HOSPITAL 303            ..        21.2         ..                ..                     27.Z
gmmm
azUiS S= or B001L
IDEAL                             ..         ..          .                  ..
AVE3*0 30. 0r P33S0M3ilMG
TOTAL                              ..
maN                               ..          ..         .                  ..
301*                              ..         ..          .                  ..
PERCETAG OF WAU.16 WMI ELECT
WtOAL                             ..          ..
W13*                              ..         ..          .                  ..



-25-                                                       Annex I
T AILI a                                           Page 2 of 6
i,.OAk      1970Lk. RErINATRLk        3@U   0  3n1*1         AICA  W. 0  3M 1
iffL      19yA    :TWL               SOM  Of SAA           AMCI *- OF SHR
AWUSTmD   u     nowiM   RATIGos
Pr    s   TOTAL                    49.0        74.0        70.0               67.3                       35.7
MAR.!                   63.0        33.0        72.0               77.6                      100.0
1U L                    30.0        65.0        67.0               54.9                      83.2
sCCOMA: TOTAL                       2.0         2.0         2.0                13.5                      17.3
KALB                     2.0         3.0         ..0               17.9                       25.0
FlMLI                    1.0         1.0         2.0                9.1                      14.*
vOCATIoNAL CZ OF 34OODA8)            39.9        12.2        24.6               13.2                        5.9
*        ~~PuflIL-TEACHKR RATIO
FlMlAff                            39.0        30.0        55.0               44.9                      41.1
SBCOSAIW                           14.o        13.0        14.0               27.4                       25.5
rAssgZR CA ITHUSAI POP                0.4         0.9                                                      20.8
UDiO   EIVRS/TUSD Po                  ..          3.1        28.3                s5a                      10.8
TV UC     UIUOUSAI  O                 ..          *-           *-                 2.                       20a
U3PAPSR (CMLT CGIIAL
XM=iums)  CzfUI%TXON
Pr   4OIJSAID POPUIATO               ..           .          0.1                5.0                       13.4
CINWA  IUL AIUIIDAICA*TA              ..          ..          0.1                0.5                        0.4
OTAL L10 FORCE (T2HWS)             1553.0      2007.0      2915.0
riL.S (PncENT)                     49.1        48.6        46.4               34.2                       36.2
ACE1LTU    (PfRYI)                 95.0        93.0        91.0               77.5                      54.5
tmDhR  (CP       )                  1.0         2.0         2.0                9.7                       18.3
FACXPATZ     AT (PERCET
tamL                              S3.6         54.3        53.4               39.3                      36.
MALE                               5.9         56.9        54.5               50.9                      47.1
131*1*                             34.4        51.9        49.1               28.1                      27.2
UCO:u0C Dmuimuc  RATIO                0.0         0.9         0.9                1.3                        1.3
IER         o0  PRIVATM iEca
sucr sz    or .. . .. . .
IKNOWT 25S O IIWUSOLD               ..          ..          ..                 ...
LlU    20Z OFOUSIOS                 ..          ..          ..
*OS 5?010100O    UL3            ..          ..           ..                 ..                        .
-  Zr coUS
STIMA    -OLT      POVnRZI   C
LEVE  (MS PM CAPrIA)
ulAN                                ..          ..        140 O              165.3                     590.7
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                95.0                     275.3
mIAT    IVm A       OVEC P zT
EEL (USCS  U CAPITA)
UNA"                                ..          ..          ..               113.1                     545.6
NILAL                               ..          ..         43.0 :             67.6                     201.1
smAm  Pop. BumV .03ou
iowsaw  Dcm LEEL (1)
URBRA                               ..          ..         30.0 je            34.6
RuL                                 ..          ..          ..                61.3
NOr AVAL AN'
MOT APPLICAIL
W O T U S
UT   grp av.raga  for each ifdUster &am Powalon-uel~    arltbtle _AmS. Csrhr Of efturLa
mog tbe indlators depends an £taLabLUty of da  and 1a eat menls
Lb   Unl.. ocelwlse noted. 7rta for 19t    rfefr tr aW peer betMQem 1959 .d 1£961; '%tA ew 1970" e
1969 ad 1971; and data for *Mt beast   IGM0 beI            1951 40d 1N3.
/ 1977; /d 1930; to 1962.
n.13 1983



-26 -                                                     Annex I
rage s   of 6
DKFIT1OM OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nott: Alhoug te ditta am drwn r  sourm  ly   d themmt audlw   nd relebk it should alo be meted that they my not be intcnatioualy
comparable becau of tbe lack if sardied deitos anD capt md ry diffe rent cut  in coUting the dat, The da are, nomtden s useful to
describe order of railtuW. indicate trns and chrcie in ummjor diSmiss betwe countrie
Thc refee group ar (I) the -  esuty goup ir the subject couy and (2) a country group with someht hige " avaige   than the counry
group of the subjetcouy (ext ror -High lncome Oi Eaprn" grup whee-Middle Income North Africa and Midd Ea Is dm  becuofsr onyger
socio cultursal liniti). In he rteerence grp data dw avere are popi weighed arithmetic mn for esb ictor ad shown only wen majority
ate countries in a oup ha data for that Indicaor. Sie cove orcountri amo  t indicatos depon the maUsilty of data sn s t umibom
caution must be ecrded in relating av s of one indcor to anoihe. haee vuvmpare only usefl in comparing th value orone indicator at a timn among
the couny and rfrence group
AREA (thousand sq.knL)                                       Cdru  Mes Rate (per t*ousudj--Number of ive birds in the year
raTe-Total surface area comprising land area and ind  waten;  per thouand of mid-year population; 1960,1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 dataL                                    Cme DeA RAw  (per theuanmd)-Number of death in the year
Agrdchwi-Estinate of agricultural area used tempoarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pnnaedy for crops, pastures, maket and kitchen aprdens or to  Gret Repredou Rate-Average number ordaughters a woman
e fahLow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period if she exp
pmsent age-specific fertility ates; usually five-year averas ending
GNP PEt CAPIA (USS-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market price  calkulated by sate conversion method as World S  mp ?lsuh-Aceptsn. A.uu (rheundml-Annual num
Blar Arttr (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                       ber ofacceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of nationra
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CATA-Annu  apparent                   family panning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.  FlaNy Pamulqg--nl (percent of mmined wmsae)-The percen-
petroleum. natural as and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal dlec  tag of imarred womcn of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilogms of oil equivalent per capit; 1960, 1970. and  whose husbads are practicing any form ofcontraeption. Women
1982 data.                                                   of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countrie contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIIM CS                              groups.
Tot Pepuitee Mid- Year (thesmdu-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.    FOODANDNUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Urba  Popebsie  (peenv oftotl-Rto  fuba  o  oal              [*  of Fo dPrdedacefaer Cqra (199-71 - 1N-Indezofrper
of utal)Rati  of  rbanto ttal capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
popuaton; different definitions of urban area may affect compar-  excludes animal reed and seed for agriculture. Food commoditi
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.  include pdmary commodities (c.g. sugarcane instead or supr)
h_pulasieihen                                                which ae edible and contain nutrents (eg. coffee and tea are
Ppuariorn in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,  excluded); they comprise cerals, root crops, pulse  oil seeds.
made for each economy sepamtely. Starting with information on  vegetabes, fruits. nuts. supgn  and sugrW beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  live5tock products. Aggrepte production of esch country is baed
inernational migation in the bas year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65, 1970, and
were projected at fve-year intervals on the basis of generlizd  1982 dataL
aumptons until the populaion became stationary.              her Capt SUlyof Ci ties (pracofrequlreatz-Comput-
St:aonary populadon-ls one in which age- and sx-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-secific  per capita per day. Avaibble supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level    tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net mproduction rate- 1). In such a population, the birth rate is    exclude animal feed seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements werc
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationaty population  estimated by FAO based on physiologial needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected chanateistics of  and health codsidering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement leveL                                    waste at household lvel; 1961, 1970 and 1982 dua.
Popudaton Momentnar-Is the tendency for population growth to  Per C4ita Supply of eheetd  ( r per dun-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacment-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requiremnents for all countnies established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measurd as  provide for mninimun allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grans or animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. givm the assumption that fertility remains at replace.  should be animal protein. These standardsare lower than those of
ment level from year s onward. 1985 data.                    75 gras of total protein and 23 grms of animal protein as an
mpuati  &miry                                                averae for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqknrL-Mid-year population per square kdlometer (100 hec-  Supply, 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total ara; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              Pr Capa Peedei Swuply Fre  ArdueuW ad PW-Protein supply
Per sq kt argnaduai land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food denved from aninals and pulses in gams per dayr 1961-65.
land only, 1960, 1970. and 1982 dau                          1970 and 1977 data.
Popuate_ Age Sauna  (percear)-Children (0-14 years). work-   Chi (qes IJ-4 Deah Rae (per thousad)--Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as pecnge  ckildren aged 1-4 years per thousand chidren in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.           group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Populatie. Gra etA Rare (pvrceafl-eotai--AnnuaI growth rates of  from life table; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083.  HEALTH
Popul1e Growth Rate (percet)-urbaw-Annual growth rates        ift Expety at Msh (yuar-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970483 datL   infant would live if pevailing pattern of mortality for all people



-27-                                                  Annex I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of or its birth wme to day the ame throughout its life;  apl-reacher Ratio - primary, and secondry.-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                    ralled in primary and scondary levwe  divided by number or
Iqf  Mwa5t7 At (pw tghauad)--Number of infants who die    teaches in the corrnponding levels.
before raching one yar of ae per thouand live births in  given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPTnON
Acrm to So  lim   (pucsu o!p d d tim)-r4 W#n,6 nd -hsstrr Cm,s (per theosand poupurioj-lassenger cars com-
ovit-Nwumber of people (total, urba, and rural) with aonable  pris motor car seating kss than eight person; excludes ambul-
amces to safe water supply (ndude tted  urface watr or        ar hene and military vehki.
unetad but un staninaed water sub a that frOU pfoucted        Radii Recivrs (per r rya_iedpaputid )-All types of rcivers
boes,spuig  an s        ywel) s pentagoherrepec-             for radio broadcasts to gnea public per thousand of population;
dve poputions. In an urban ame a public fountain or standpost    exrrudes un-licensed receiver in countries and in years when
cated not more than 200 mee  from a house my be conidemd      registration of radio set was in efect data or recent years my
s bang withn reonable acess of that house In runal are"       ngtrbe  omabl  sinc mos cndres abolished tliensing.
reasonable acces would imply tat the houswife or inbers of the  not becompe  sicemostcountriabolished ksing
*houselhold do not have to sped a disprportionate part of the day  TV Receivers (pftf rUtaidpapoliam-TV rceivers for broadcast
in fethg tbe Gunity's water needs.                           to general public per thousand population; exdudes unlcnsed TV
.nl~tching the laflhil3X 5 D W3t (                          . receivem in ocuntnes and in years when registration of TV sets was
Ac  E o  mcare Disposal (percent a/pWuatba)i-,ow.I Wine  in effect.
and rxra-Number of people (total, urba  and nrd) servd by
caete dispoul as percentages of their respective populations.  rbvapeer CG'ekash  (per thomuanedpomlauin)-Shows the aver-
Excret disposal may include the cotlection and disposal, with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper. defined as a
without treatmat, of hum    excrete and wste-water by water-  peiodical publication devoted prinarily to recording general news.
bone systens or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is conidered to be daily" if it appe rsat ast four times a week.
Pbpidiiianpir Pht_sicdne-bpulation divided by number of prac-  Cit* Aasnal AtteuAdce per Cpta per Yew-Based on the
tsing physicians qualifed from a mdcal school at university level.    number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Pplatimn pw N_Et   Puwn-bpuoation divided by number of        drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practcing male and female graduate nurses, asstant nurses.
practcal nurses and nursing auxiliaies.                        ABOR FORCE
Aidid  zpu Hospintal I-tal,  wine,   *Tottion                   al Labor 5rcem (thuusiord.-Economically active persons. in-
(totL urban. and rural) divided by their respetive number,of  duding armed forces and unenployed but exduding housewives.
hospital beds available in pubic and private. g l and lized  students, etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitls and rehabiitation centers, Hospitals are esablishents  vanous countries are not compaable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at least one physician Establishments prov-  mFe  (percivr-Female labor force as percentag of total labor
Kming principaly custodil cau are not incuded. Rural hospitals  force.
howeve. indude heth and medical centers not pemanently staffed  Ap'kalru  (perceatD-Labor fore in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physian (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a Iimited range  data.
of medical faclities                                         Indsu&y (perceat)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
A6rduoa pwr fispta he-Total number of admissions to or        facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
dicharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
O IP=rieao RAe    r          mwk,  _ndfamle-Participation
lfflOtSING                                                   or activity ratesar computed as total, male, and female labor force
A;r-   M  of fimehald (piHner per hlsreAHud-tot  wine,       as percens of totaL male and fdeale population of all ags
adro'al-A household consists of a grp of individuals who share  respectively- 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
lving quarters and their main meals. A boarder or ldger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofthe population, and
m-ay not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from natonal sources.
Avesage Number of Perxs pe Room-tora  win, and val-           Econunic DepenAecy Rato-Ratio of population under IS. and
Avergc number of persons per roorn in all urban, and rural   65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwelings exclude
non-pmanent strucurs and unoccupied partL                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pffceae of DueNpg wih Elecridry-tueal, wine, ned -it-        Percage of Total Disposacme (boh in cah ad kind)-
Conventional dwlings with ekctricity in living quarters as percen-  Acauing to pecentile groups of houscholds ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rral dwellings rcspectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4sted Ewant Red"                                            The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pifnar7 sdo. - sotal. make adifenak--Gross total, male and   levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
fmaleenrolment of aL ag     the primary lvelpecentage of     EstimdAbsowe Poverty Incme Laed MM3 per ceJa)-wran
respeCtiVe pimary sdcolage populations. While many countries  ned rial-Absolute poverty income level is that incorne level
consider primary school ag to be 6-11 year others do not. The  bdow which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differec  in country pracies in the ages and duration of school  non-food requimements is not affordable
are reced in the ratios givn For some countries with univW    Evsrhated Relatde Asuey Incom  Leve (Sf per capirs)-_ar
education gross enrlment may exceed 100 percent since some   ned roal-Rural relative poverty income evel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age                                                          derived fromi the rural levd with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary scweol - torl. male adf oemale-Computed as above:    living in urban area
seonday education requires at kast four years of approved pri-  Exw,ued Ppewla &rlow Abslte Averty Imwe Leve (per-
mary instrne provides generaL vocational. or teacher tuining  cent-wrnew ned rwal- Percent of population (urban and rural
isuctions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agc correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence cours are geney exuded.
Vocatinl Emufoime  (percent of mc-ary)-Vocational institu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude tachncl, industriaL or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions                            June 1985



-.23-                                    Annex I
Tage 5 of 6
COUMISY DATA - RWANDA
AREA                                                    ION                          DENSTY (192  3
26i3 thousand sq. km                            V 7     T*,Il    (1913)              210 per *q. ko.
Ioto of Growth.                     393 per sq. ka. of
3.72                                    aroble land
POPULATION CRARACTERISTICS t19S1-83)                                   WEALTll tl901
Crude  lirth Raee (per 1.000)              51.9                        Popultion per physician          31.340
Crude Deatb Rate (par 1,000)               19.4                        Population per hospital bed          660
INCOME DISTRIBUTION                                                    ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
Z of natlonal income, higbost qulitila *                               (Kilograms of coal aquivolent)   28.0
lowest quintile
ACCESS TO SATE VaER (1930)                                             ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
S of populatlon - totai                    54.0                        S of population - total              2.0
- rural
!!ThTI!ON (1981-83)                                                    EDUCATION  21980)
CMTintako5 *of reqHEirents                 85.0                        Adult llteoray rat  2               37.0
Per capita proteln Intake                  50.0                        Prlry school enrollment 2          72.0
(grs/day)                                                  1/
CmP PER CAPITA IN 19s3 7    USS 260
CROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1953                                                 ANNUAL RATE OF CRGROT
(I. constant 1983 prices) 2/
Us$ Mm1.       2                                          1979-84
CDP at Market Prices           1,53 T1      10W.0                                            2
Gross Domotic Investment         203.5       13.5                                          7.1
Crots Natlonal Savlng             39.6        2.6
Current Account Balance         -170        -11.3
Export of Goods,  NY$            137.3        9.1                                         -2.S3/
Isport of Goods, UPS             272.3       18.1                                          5.1=
-OOERNMENT FINAICE
Central Government
Ru! Mln.               I of CDP
1- 4          19o4              1980
Current Receipts                         iT;Z9           11.0 °           12
Current Expenditure                      15,753          10.0              9.L
Current Surplus/deficIt                   1.616           1.0              2.9
Capital Expenditures                      2,626           1.7              2.1
Overall Surplus/deficit 4/              -3,7L1          -2.3               0.5
I/ Prelidairy data.
D/ Based on end-period values.
Tj The decline In exports during thi period l explained by the fact that 1979 was
on export boom year.
4/ The overall surplus Is not equal to the difference between current savings and developmenc
expenditures because the consolidated surplus or deficit of the Treasury special accounts is not shown in this
table.
not availabIe
not a*pplllble



-29-                                              AMnzm   I
COUNTRT DATA - 8VAlIDA                                     Page 6 of 6
1N101y. CODTT AND PRICES                    1979                      19a1         1982         1983         191
(Nilliso 1K1 eutetanding end perlod)
money *upplyl/                             14,112       1.,117       15,938       163153       18.054       19,074
Dank Credit to Government (set)            -1,473       -3.961       -2.916         -682        2,010        1.912
Danlt Credit to Prlvate sector              4'.64        6,450        5.147        86 49       9*887        11.587
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
honey *s I of GDO                            14.8         13.1         12.9         12.0         12.8         12.2
Consumer Price Index (1930 a 100)            93.2        100.0        106.5        119.1        127.7        137.3
Annual percentage change. In.
Consumer Prlme Index                       15.8          7.3          6.5         12.4          6.6          7.7
Bank Credit to Oovernent (set)         -6404.3         170.3       -26.7         -76.6      -394.7          -4.9
Dank Credit to Prlvate Sector             -11.1         42.0         25.7          8.6         11.7         17.2
ALACE  OF PAYNT r                                                                 MERCHIIANDIE ExPORTs (AVAGE 1979-1984)
Actual                                            USS  n2.      2
tin current uS S
I tea    1981   1LL.  1933   19B4 '       Coffee                 83.2       61.7
Tea                    13.7       10.3
Exports of Goods & Services             166     150    141    150    172          Cassiterite            13.0        9.6
of whlch   mrchandle f.o.b.       (134)   (113)  (109)  (124)  (141)          volfram                 3.8        2.8
Inports of Goods & Services           -323    -332   -338   -307   -309           Pyrethrun                1.1       0.8
of whlcht mrcbandle f.o.b.    (-196)  (-207) (-215) (-190) (-184)              Clnchoua                1.4        1.0
Not Transfers                           -3       -2     -1      -5       5        Other                  18.6       13.8
Net Factor Income                         5      12      -2     -8      -4                               34        T OM
Current Accoust 3alance               -135    -168   -198   -170   -136           EXTERNAL DEST. DECENIEN 31. 1983
USS inI.
Officlal Grants                         106     106    103    112    101          Publlc Debt, lucl.guarantewd  220.0
Prlvate Direct lnvestment                17      19      21     11      10      WlonGuaranteed Private Debt
NLT offlcial (not)                       33      23      25     36      39        Total Outstading & Dlsbursed
Other Capital                            12      17       4     -8       -
Change In Reserves                     -13        1      43     19    -14        NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 3/
lnternational Rseerves                  163     166    123    104    118                                          Z
Reserves as monthb  of imports         6.1      6.0    4.3    4.0    4.3         Public Debt. Incl.guarantead 3T
of goods and of services                                                       Non-Cuaranteed Private Debt
Pentroleu  IpaVrteA/                  25.7    43.2   46.0   31.0   51.9          Total Outstanding * Disbursed
Petroleus Exports                        .      .
RATE oF EXCRANGE                                                                   IDA LENDINC. MARCH 31. 1985 (USSNIn.)
Annual              End                                                                IDA
A!rg!              P1oed                              Outstanding 4 Dlebursed          1Y.3
1974-.d Auu. 1983         Fb. 1985                          Undisbursed                     104.9
Outstanding Including
KSS 1.00 - IvF               92.64               106.5                               Undlabursed                   247.2
Rv? 1.00 - USS                0.011                0.009
--n 1.00 -S                    ..                  0.010
SDR 1.00 - awr                 ..                102.71
1/ locludes Money and quasl Moey
T2 Provielonal
I/ Debt Service net of interest earned on foreign exchange reserves
as a percentae of etxports of Goods snd Non-Factor Services.
1. Crude Derlvatlves
not available
not appllcable



-30. -
Papg 1 of 2
2EE STAH  W  BANK WE OIIAM   IIN 14
A. Statint of DMI Cadits
i af Ssptmbir 30, 1985)
Aunt  $ mil&lion
Ouedtt N,.    Fiscal Yewr   Borr=m                      wpa.ps                 (lM    nulto)
(tn ezeix bave been fully d1ishwod)B1                                           77.49
937-gzf 2/ 3/  1979         1awAa        mutam Agiculm  &G 1vetsw
Dvslo1mIt                             8.75      2.65
03v-If         1980                      MItegmted Foretry & Lvwtod
Dr-llooFmer                          21.00      2.64
1057-SW        1981                       1 econandeationa                       7.50      5.27
112$d3W        1981             "         Obffms/Foodcrops                      15.00      5.75
1217-R         m982            mf '1b1idcl AeisIatm                              5.00      3.54
1250-HE        1982                       Fifth H±gtuy                          25.90    12.45
1263-W         1982                       Secod Edumtion                        10.00      8.65
1283-RW        1982                       Rime II Rieg.erza/G s1ixwo            16.30      7.91
144-gW        1983                       MD m                                   7.00      4.18
1345-r         1983                       Water Supply                          13.00      6.24
142D-W         198E4                      RMzizi I, yadsectric                  15.00    11.64
1495-J         1984                       Pce                                    9.00      8.48
154b-H3 4/     1985                            31AMpdiu1n     imearch           11.50    11.50
1565-Hf 4/     1985             "Ibnlmicl Assistm   II                           4.80      4.80
Totd                           247.24    95.70
of vld&h bi  beenrepid              1.33
Total mr  outstaundfiI         245.91
Amot sold             3.40
of whidL bm barn repfid  3.40
Motal nn bald by IMA.          245.91
Total wxtiaburusd                         95.70
1/ lada, h  ±csIiv naO Bm* kIn.
2/V     MA, cett wa ccoq1lemned by a EEC Special Ar±lon Credlt of US$1.7 ullimL.
3/ T3iIrt  a        6 a BMW    nt Paticiatcivon of 4.4 million.
V    vzt vet   df v..



_ 31
Pap 2 of 2
B. Statet of EC Investmqt in Rwada
(as of h4gt 31, 1985)
USOU 1sa
IFC's exi8ting investuents In 1R  a comprise  two itD tnv    nte previously made in
Sorwatbi and its przdeoasaDr caqvanres, SIRF sad 5IUE.  etaile are as folow.
US$ '0o0
Total
Inrestmazt   Fiscal               Type of                               Held by
Nuiber      Year    OblUr   Rasnew   Equity   loan    Iotal             DFC   Undisbursed
337-RW        1975      Sorwatbhe)Oa process-  -       0.54   0.54        0.24        -
mceti
470-RR         1979     Sorwatb )             0.06 a/ 0.23   0.29         0.13
764-hf        1984      Sorwathb)               -      0.25   0.25         -       0.25
Total                          0.06      1.02    1.08      0.37     0.25
a/ CunP led in 7/84.



- 32 -
Annex III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section }: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification               early 1984
(b)  Project Preparation    :    March 1984
(c)  Appraisal Mission            April 1985
(d)  Negotiations                 December 1985
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness  :    June 1986
Section II: Special Project Implementations Actions
Conditionality on implementation; supervision built in with
consultants.
Section III: Special Conditions
Annual agreement between MINAGRI and ISAR to be presented to IDA
for approval with a detailed work program and budget (pars. 40);
and contractual agreement between MINAGRI and each commune before
March 31, 1986 regarding contributions to agricultural activities
(para. 43). Implementation of project activities to be carried
out according to annual work programs and budgets (para. 61).
Review of MINAGRI Institutional Development component by end of
Year 2 to be discussed with IDA (para. 59); and availability of
IDA funds for remaining three sub-prefectures contingent upon
conclusions of review of the pilot sub-prefecture in the Gitarama
Agricultural Production component after Year 2 by Government and
IDA and only after all higher-level staff have been appointed
(para. 44).
Reductions in requirements for tecbnical assistance to be agreed
between Government and IDA (para. 60); and review by IDA of
detailed TORs for positions to be filled by experts financed
under separate bilateral aid agreements (para. 60).



- 33 -
Section IV: Special Conditions of Effectiveness
* Presentation of a formal contractual agreement between MINAGRI
and ISAR for Year 1 (para. 40).
* Recruitment of qualified Rwandese accounting staff satisfactory
to IDA (para. 58); the sub-prefecture officer (para. 57); and
the promotion coordinator (para. 57).
* Setting up of two project accounts in local currency, one for
each component, with Government contribution (para. 66).



- 34 -
Annex IV
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES ARE SUMMARIZED BELOW:
Gitarama Agricultural Production Comeonent
Disbursement                                                     T. A.   Total
Category                          ICB   LCB  Other  N. A. Guidelines  Cost
--US $ milli'on-
I. Civil works                         2.74                              2.74
(1.87)                           (1.87)
II. Vehicles and equipment /b    .79   .90    .59 /c                      2.28
(.70) (.84)  (.53)79                  (2.07)
II;. Technical assistance                                 .80 /d 2.13 /e  2.93
(.80)  (2.13)   (2.93)
IV. Training and studies                        2.20                      2.20
(2.09)                   (2.09)
V. Agricultural Inputs                   .10                              .10
(.09)                            (.09)
VI. Operating costs                             4.71 /f                   4.71
(.63)                    (.63)
VII. Refunding PPF                                        .52               .52
(.52)             (.52)
Total costs                    .79  3.74   7.50   1.32    2.13    15.48
4Total IDA)                   ' 70)(2.80) (3.25) (1.32)  (2.13)  (10.20)
/a  Including physical and price contingencies.
7b Used by extension services for demonstration purposes.
7, Of which US S0.03 million for ISAR.
7W Conventions - direct contracting.
7e  Of which US $0.16 million for ISAR.
if  Of which US $0.03 million for ISAR.
KINAGRI institutional Development Component
Disbursement                                                  T. A.   Total
Category                       ICB   LCB  Other  N. A. Guidelines  Cost
-   Bs & 'miT --o-
I. Vehicles and equipment    .45   .27    .14                        0.86
(.44) (.26)  (.13)                    (0.83)
II. Technical assistance                                    2.51 /b   2.51
and studies                                        (2.51)    (2.51)
III. Training                                 1.42                     1.42
(1.39)                   (1.39)
IV. Operating costs                          1.95                     1.95
(.32) /c                 (.32)
V. PPF                                              .46               .46
(.46)             (.46)
Total costs                 .45   .27   3.51    .46   2.51        7.20
(Total IDA & colfinancier)(.44) (.26) (1.78)  (.46) (2.51)    (5.51)
/a Including physical and price contingencies.
7EF Includes US $100,000 for audits of the two components.
TW Excludes any financing of higher level staff salaries.



r
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
PROJET DE PRODUCTION AGR/COLE DE GITARAMA
RAINFALL AND AGRICULTURAL PATTERN
AND LOCATION OF BANK-FINANCED PROJECTS                                                                                                                 f
Project Area
Zbne du PtVel'                                                                                                                         RuImbun.            C
ISAR Rmesrch Stations (10)
*      Centre de Recherchs ISAR  (10)
Bugmeer Gisaka Migongo Rural Services Project - Phase II
Bugesera Gisaka Migoago. Projet de Services de Ddveloppement Rural-Phase 1)
Lake KIvu Coffe and Food Crop Improvement Project                                                                           7 ZAIRE
Projet tfAnliobraion de is C.iMtwura et des Cusure Vhrierea das b Rdgion du Lac IG<vu                                       ZAIRE
_a        PICbinchona Projct
Mutars Agricuhural and Uvestock Development Project-Phase II                                                                                          ease_ 
Projet de O6veloppemenr Agro-ptoral du Mutars-Phase N                                                                                           e      Kini;-
_   Gishwati Forest Reserve                                                                                                                                 Kigi
F:.aJ   Rdaerve Foreatisre de Gishwats                                                                                                           j    sR"Rueher
Integrated Forastry and Livestock Development Project IGishwati Sub-Project) f
|/77|   ProjardenibppenmesuSyropsrs orw (Sous-rojed e Giahwsti) o4-
_        Bininga Maize Project                                                                            _                            *aammra  .*5
Pro jet rvenge Ham/
Agricultural Region Boundaries
Limiles des Regions Agricoles                                                               I                       f J
Roads                                                                                        I                                    / 7'
Routes                                  ,                                                                     nfi 
RivesGim,m                                                                                                                                              
RivMrfes                                                                                 I                                               1
Tovwngs                                                                                                                      gf   -              tQ t
N-Capital Natronal                                                                                j       /         /,                            - 
International Boundanes                                                                /               1ilvL                  '                 -
Fronti6res /nternatwna hs 118/C5  
lso1i200a in mm                                                                     /          I                                      -
tsolioyeeas en mm                                                                     J                j !    -- v
Agricultural Regions                                                                          /                                                       '
R4gions Agricoles/
mbo                                                                                       /                       '
2  Imbo                                                                                 /                  /
2  mparax4                                                                                                               <F     
Lake Kivu Region                                                              I
3    Boures L.c Kvu 
Lavs Soil                                                                                                                                        a    (SV
4    Torres de anve                                                                                          / 
Z Zaire-Nile Divide Highlande                                                /  
Zone dHaute Alitude du Crate Zaire-Pite -N d/                                                       :,                                                       XNiN
6    Buberuka Highlands                                                       1           7=
Zone dHaute Aftitude de Bubefuka                                                           s       §   i7            tO uh
Central Plateau
Plateau Central                                                                                                                                       '1  -~
8    Gnitic Do                                                                                                    /     /
8    DotWGrawniltqueI                                                                    -                    J      
9    mm:yypga                                 gu                                 kav
Bgeserap\:   2                                                                                s r           
10 Bu%                                                                                         -_
Plateau de frEt                                                                   5Maia
Est Savannahs
Savanes  rE rstZ IRE
a       10       20       30       40       50
KLOMETERS      S_ '   _ __ __ _ _
hilLESo      10             20            30
'I \                 BURUNDI                          /
29         \              



IBRD 1EI
3to Mbarar. A Kampia
UGANDA                 /-umbs    _'   -.
0 Rutuhuru ( ( 
RutabuKabuu
\vouor9 n ~~~~~~~~TANZANIA
E
*<<                                                       ,'?Ruhenge  RwererAKAGERA
T/.a..   +       /-ByumblN                    . ;NX  NATIONAL
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/~~~O
, '  ,  M   iu r am b a    >  
r                     r
RSr \;b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sa.
*     -Git*~ra-ma
*Rubona
-Gikongom                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32  3  4
-'*    SUDAN     *_  E  !HIOPIA
UGANDA
Omata                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZAIRE          SM
,-tur ' g  |BURUNDI               ! R
;.  Rutande            )                                                   KENYA
46 Ruhande@ _ e                        \~~         ~~                 ~~~~~~~~~. . 46
\.__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          -w - f. ,  __.   -.a.f __ -~  . a              -
r.a * - -1-- -- - __ OIBURUN.,,
XO~~~~~~~ -; 'a -    d  -4 - .e\   ;fl   a. 
JI       |P          Stza                                                    TANZANIA
Y\   30  32  38N    M 40






