Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5895-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
AND MINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 19, 1986
Regional Projects Department
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This docment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents rmay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURREE  QUVALENTS
Currency Unit - Franc Rwandese (RF)
US $1.00       =  RF 103
RF 100         '  $.97
WEIGHT AND NEASURES
Metric                       British/US Equivalents
I meter                   =  3.3 feet
1 hectare                 =  2.47 acres
I are (100 m2)            =  0.02 acre
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)  =  0.39 square mile (sq. m.)
1 kilogram (kg)           =  2.2 pounds (lb.)
I liter (1)               =  0.26 US gallon (gal.)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  2,204 (2.b.)
GcLOSSAY OF A'3BREVIhIIONS
BACAR        -  Banque Continentale Africaine - Rwanda
BCA          -  Correspondence and Archives/Bureau de Courrier et Archives
BDI          -  Bureau of Documentation and Information/Bureau de
Documentation et d'Information
BGC         -  Management of the Budget/Bureau de Gestion des Credits
BGP          -  Personnel Management/Bureau de Getion du Personnel
BNR          -  National Bank of Rwanda/Banque Nationale du Rwanda
BRD          -  Industrial Development Bank/Banque Rwandaise de
Developpement
CFRC/IWACU   -  Cooperative Research and Training Center/Centre de
Formation et de Recherches Cooperatifs
COOPIBO      -  Belgian Non-Governmental Association for Support to
Cooperatives/Compagnons batisseurs
CSOG         -  Cooperative Service Center of Gitarama
DCE          -  Department of Control and Evaluation/Direction Contro^le et
Evaluation
DEP          -  Department of Studies and Planning/Direction Etudes et
Planification
INADES       -  Institut National pour le Developpement Economique et
Social
ISAR         -  National Research Institute/Institut des Sciences
Agronomiques du Rwanda
MINAGRI      -  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry/Ministere
de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Forets
MINIMARWT    -  Ministry of Industry and Artisanal Development/Ministere de
l'Industrie, des Mines et de l'Artisanat
OCIR         -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda
OPROVIA      -  Office National pour le Developpement et la
Commercialisation des Produits Vivrieres et des
Productions Animales
SNEA         -  National Agricultural Survey/Service National des Enquetes
Agricoles
SSS          -  Selected Seed Service/Services des Semences Selectionnees
TRAFIPRO     -  Travail, Fidelite, Progras (Cooperative)
FISCAL YEAR
Government - January 1 to December 31



FOR OFIL USE ONLY
(i)
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
AND MINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Table of Contents *.. .........................................   i) to (v)
Credit and Project Summary             ................................ (vi) to (ix)
I.  BACKGROUND .....        ..............................                1
A.  Project Background ....... .........................              1
B.  Economic and Agricult.iral Setting .................              2
C. Government's Agricultural Sector Strategy and Major
Issues of Agriculture ............ .... .... ... ..           3
D.  Government Financing of Agriculture ...............               4
E.  IDA Assistance to Rwanda's Agriculture Sector .....               5
II.  RWANDA'S AGRICULTURE SERVICES   .........................             7
A. The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests
(MINAGRI) ............. ...... ............ O...................  7
B. Government's Agricultural Extension and Related
Services ......................... ...   .....                8
C.  Agriculture Research ..... ........ ................ .           9
D.  Farm Inputs .............. .0......................................  10
E.  Agricultural Produce Marketing and Pricing  .eeeoe               11
F.  Agricultural Credit and Finance ........ ............            11
G.  Cooperatives and Farmers' Groups  ....... . ...........          13
H.  The Gitarama Region ................ ...... ....        .        13
This document has a restricted disribution and may be used b: recipients only in the performance
of thir official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Page No.
III.  THE PROJECT ......       . ..............................        14
A.  Sector Strategy and Rationale for the Project .....          14
B.  Summary Description of Project .....................         16
C. Detailed Features, Extension and Agricultural
Services .................................................... O  17
Development and Introduction of Specific
Extension Packages ....0 ....................         17
The Extension System .... . .   ....... .. ......... ..  20
Support Services .......................... ... .        21
Training .............. O-T..........a                   22
Equipment and Transportation ...................         23
Civil Works ...... ...**.. ....... .......* .........    23
D. Detailed Features: Promotion and Financing of
Agricultural Processing, Marketing and Farm
I.nput Supply ..............................................  24
The Investment Promotion Office ................         24
Support to the Banques Populaires ..............         25
Support to Cooperatives and Farmers' Groups ....         25
Support to the Artisanal Sector .............. ..        26
Innovation Fund .. .......... . .............. .0        26
Documentation, Information and Surveys .........         27
E. ilyabarongo Valley Master Plan Study ...............          27
F. MINAGRI Institutional Development Comporent .......           28
Component Objectives ..........................          28
Detailed Features ... ............. ....  ...... .....   30
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ............................         33
A.  Cost Estimates ................... .............................  33
Gitarama Agricultural Production Component   .....       33
MINAGRI Institutional Development Component ....         33
B.  Financing ......................................... 0............  34
Gitarama Agricultural Production Component   .....       35
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Analysis ..............         36
MINAGRI Institutional Development Component ....         37
C.  Procurement ................................*......          37
D.  Disbursements .....................................          40
Statements of Expenditure ......................         40
Special Account .........       .......................  40
Government Counterpart Funds ..................          41



(iii)
Page No.
E. Financial Management ..... ........ ....... ............  42
Accounting for Gitarama Agricultural Production
Component           .........o..... ..43
A'counting for MINAGRI Institutional Development
Component ............................*..o..e    43
F. Environmental Iumpact ....*. --..  ..- ........ .....   43
Vo ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .. ..............   .. .... .  44
A. Gitarama Agricultural Production Component ........     44
B. MINAGRI Institutional Development Component ......o.    47
VI.  BENEVITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....... oo.. ............  50
A. Justification and Benefits of the Gitarama
Component ..... o....... o.....-o  .........        50
B. MINAGRI Institutional Development Component .....       51
C. Economic Analysis o .................                   52
D. Risks ............ ..      .....-.........              53
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED .....   ... ..  .... ..  ...... .        54
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT:
Table 3.1: Yields  o.o....o ........................ o   ..o........ ... ...  19
Table 4.1:  Total Project Costs .....   ......................  34
Table 4.2:  Financing Plan ...o. ............. ... . ... ... . .  35
Table 4.3: Procurement Procedures - Gitarama Agricultural
Production Component ...... .-...... ........   39
Table 4.4:  Procurement Procedures - MINAGRI Institutional
Development Component ..... -.-.-.......        40
Table 4.5: Gitarama Agricultural Production Component,
Proceeds of the IDA Credit     ...............  41
Table 4.6:  MINAGRI Institutional Development Component,
Proceeds of the IDA Credit ...... o ..........  42
Table 6.1: Gitarama Prefecture. .....   o   ..............     51
Table 6.2:  Farm Models  o ................... .......         51
Table 6.3: Gitarama Prefecture, Project Year 10 * .........    52



(iv)
Page
No.
SUPPORTING ANNEXES, CHARTS AND MAPS:
Annexes:
Annex  1 -  Implementation Schedule ........................    57
Annex 2 - Schedule of Recruitment of MINAGRI Institutional
Development Project Staff ....................    58
Table 1 - Local Staff ........ 0-00 .........    58
Table 2 -  Expatriate Staff ......... ............    59
Table 3 - MINAGRI Secretariat-General,
Project Staffing Requirements .    60
Annex  3, Table  1 - Gitarama, Summary Accounts Cost Summary   62
Table  2 -             Summary Accounts by Year ...    63
Table  3 -             Breakdown of Summary Accounts   64
Table  4 -             Project Components by Year .    65
Table  5 -             Project Components by Year .    66
Table  6 -  MINAGRI, Suimmary Accounts Cost Summary   67
Table  7 -             Summary Accounts by Year ...    68
Table  8 -             Breakdown of Summary Accounts   69
Table  9 -             Project Components by Year .    70
Table 10 -             Project components by Year .    71
Annex  4, Table  1 -  Schedule of Disbursements - Gitarama .    72
Table  2 -  Schedule of Disbursements - MINAGRI -
IDA  ...9  ..... ..............         73
Annex  5  -  Projected Government Cash Flow .................    74
Annex  6 -  Expected Adoption Rates/Taux d'Adaption ........    75
Annex  7 - Yields of Selected Commodities/Rendement des
cultures ....                                      76
Annex  8, Table 1 -  Economic Analysis .....................      77
Table 2 - Economic Analysis, Sensitivity at
Expected Adoption Rate ..............     79
Annex  9, Table I -  Farm Budgets No. 1.o  ................    80
Table 2 -  Farm Budgets No. 2 .....................    82
Table 3 -  Farm Budgets No. 3 ......... o ..........    84
Table 4 -  Farm Budgets No. 4 ....................      86
Table 5 -  Farm Budgets No. 5 .................. .      88
Table 6 -  Farm Budgets No. 6 ....................    90
Annex 10, Table 1 -  Farm Model No. 3 ................. ..        92
Table 2 -  Farm Model No. 4 ...o ................       96
Annex 11  -  Selected Data and Documents Available in the
Project File .....*...  ......*................   100



(v)
Page
No.
Charts:
Chart I -  Organizational Chart - Gitarama .................   104
Chart 2 - Organizational Chart - MINAGRI ..................     105
Chart 3 -  Organizational Chart - Ministe-re de
l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Forets  ....   106
Maps:
IBRD 19380 - Rainfall and Agricultural Pattern and Location
of Bank-financed Projects
IBRD 19381 - Gitarama Prefecture
IBRD 19382 - Main Existing Agricultural Projects Financed
by External Donors



(vi)
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
AND HINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:     Republic of Rwanda
Beneficiary:  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (MINAGRI)
Amount:       SDR 11.617 million (US $12.7 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard IDA terms
Project       The proposed Credit would finance a set of activities
Objectives   designed to support Government's agricultural sector strategy
and          with the twin objectives of stimlating agricultural
Description: production, employment and income, and improving management
of the sector. It comprises two distinct components which
would be managed separately.  The Gitarama Agricultural
Production component would be the pilot phase of a national
agricultural extension and agriculture service organization,
and of a national program for promoting private and
cooperative investment in agriculture, agro-processing and
marketing. The service systems developed on a pilot basis
under this component are intended as a model which would be
replicable at the national level and institutionally and
financially sustainable. The component would include: (a)
identification and introduction to farmers of specific
recommendations to increase productivity and income; (b)
introduction of a new extension management system; and (c)
support to the development of other selected services (e.g.
provision of plant material, forestry and veterinary
services). In addition, it would provide support and
assistance to credit institutions, cooperatives, farmers'
groups, artisans and private enterprises to develop
agro-processing, marketing and input supply activities. The
Credit would also finance a study for the development of the
Nyabarongo Valley, an area of considerable potential for
agricultural intensification. The MINAGRI Institutional
Development component would strengthen the institution
building process to improve agricultural sector planning and
management. The component would provide support mainly in
the form of technical assistance, equipment and training for
project preparation, monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural services and projects, accounting and financial
management, documentation and general administration.



(vii)
Benefits:     The Gitarama Agricultural Production component would benefit
directly a large number of farm families (about 50,000
suallholders, all in the poverty target group) in the
Gitarama prefecture. In time, the entire population of
Rwanda is expected to benefit from project interventions when
these are replicated throughout the country. Farmers would
benefit from sustained and systematic support services
designed to address their specific needs. Production,
especially that of food crops and farm income, would be
increased.  The component would also benefit a large number
of artisans and small private entrepreneurs in the
prefecture, especially through professional training. The
country would generally benefit from a more efficient 'uad
cost-effective administration of key services to the rural
population.  The MINAGRI Institutional Development component
would have sector-wide benefits through better planning,
organization and management of the ministry. The project
would sharpen the technical skills of ministry staff and
improve the design, management and cost-effectiveness of
services to the sector.
Risks:        The most important project risk relates to budget allocations
from MINAGRI. Measures have been foreseen to assure adequate
funding to minimize project costs and to limit the financial
burden on the Government to acceptable levels. Another
important risk relates to the innovativeness of the project
proposals and the resulting changes required in the
institutional behavior of the Ministry of Agriculture,
especially in terms of management.  This risk is greatly
reduced by the strong commitmert of the Government to the
project and it would be further minimized with sustained IDA
support to project implementation. A specific risk of the
Gitarama Agricultural Production component is that of running
out of improved technical recommendations, but this will be
greatly reduced as the Agricultural Research Project (Credit
1546 RW) begins to produce results. A specific risk of the
MINAGRI Institutional Development component relates to the
need for qualified personnel. This risk is greatly reduced
by the important training component.



(viii)
Estimated                                        Local      Foreign      Total
Project Costs:                                      -    US $ million  --
I. Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
Extension                                    3.24         1.87       5.11
Adaptive research                             .46          .51        .97
Other agricultural services                  2.06          .95       3.01
Investment Promotion Office                   .33          .43        .76
Support to Banquee Populaires                 .04          .01        .05
Suppurt to cooperativ.-s and farmers'
groups                                     .18          .08        .26
Support to the artisanil sector               .12          .17        .29
Technical assistance                            -          .58        .58
Nyabarongo Valley Study                       .24          .97       1.21
Base cost                                    6.67         5.57      12.24
Physical contingencies                        .36          .46        .82
Price contingencies                          1.55          .87       2.42
Total component cost                         8.58         6.90      15.48
II. MINAGRI Institutional Development Component
Studies and planning                          .86         1.69       2.55
Monitoring and evaluation                     .22          .14        .36
Management and accounting                     .37          .66       1.03
Computerization                               .28          .71        .99
Documentation                                 .27          .25        .52
Personnel and financial management            .18          .14        .32
Files and archives                            .06          .04        .10
Base cost                                    2.24         3.63       5.87
Physical contingencies                        .10          .22        .32
Price contingencies                           .46          .56       1.02
Total conponent cost                         2.80         4.41       7.21
III. Total project costs                         11.38        11.31      22.69
Financing Plan:
IDA
Gitarama Ag. Production component              3.05         7.15      10.20
MINAGRI Inst. Dev. component                    .75         1.75       2.50
Sub-total                                      3.80         8.90      12.70
UNDP
Technical assistance and studies                .60         2.41       3.01
Government
Gitarama Ag. Production component              4.45            -       4.45
MINAGRI Inst. Dev. component                   1.43            -       1.43
Taxes                                          1.10            -       1.10
Sub-total                                      6.98            -       6.98
Total (including taxes)                          11.38        11.31      22.69



(ix)
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA fiscal year:      1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
US $ million -
A;nnual             .47   1.33   2.35   3.25   3.20   1.87    .23
Cumulative          .47   1.80   4.15   7.40  10.60  12.47  12.70
Economic Rate of Return:  272 on the directly productive components of the
Gitaramua Agricultural Production component
Maps:  IBRD 19380, 19381 and 19382



RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
AND MINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The proposed project is the first of several possible operations
aimed at addressing, on a small/pilot basis, a priority list of development
areas established during agricultural sector discussions between Bank/IDA
staff and the Government in November 1983. This approach would enable the
Government to address simultaneously several hirh priority secto-ral issues
and to test concepts thoroughly before applying them on a larger or
national scale. The proposed project would include two sub-projects: (a)
the Gitarama Agricultural Production component as a pilot phase of a
national agricultural extension, promotion and service organization; and
(b) the MINAGRI Institutional Development component to strengthen the
capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture to plan, monitor and coordinate
agricultural activities.
1.02      This project takes into account Government's main objectives for
agricultural development in the Gitarama Prefecture as expressed in a
proposed Integrated Rural Development Project for the prefecture presented
to the Bank for consideration in early 1982. It differs, however, from the
original proposal because the i983 sector discussions concluded that it was
essential to address as a priority matter various sectoral issues
highlighted by the sector analysis. Further, the Bank's experience from
past and ongoing projects suggested that the integrated rural development
model had proven excessively costly in terms of overhead and manpower
requirements, redundancy in parallel regional development structures and
inefficiency of central coordination and control. The present operation
was identified over a series of IDA missions carried out in early 1984.
During that period, the Agricultural Research Project was appraised as the
first of a series of institution strengthening projects to develop coherent
national agricultural services and to reinforce the central ministry's
planning and management functions.
1.03      Preparation of the project was carried out by MINAGRI staff,
supported by external consultants financed under an IDA-financed
agricultural project (BGM II) and followed up by IDA staff missions in the
field. Project proposals were completed in March 1985 and the Government
invited IDA to appraise the proposed project promptly. This report is
based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission in April 1985, followed by
an appraisal mission in April/May and June/July 1985 composed of Philippe
Blanc, Susanna Badgley, Xavier Legrain and Armand de Largentaye (EAPCA) and
Jean-Fransois Barres (Consultant).



- 2 -
B. Economic and Agricultural Sr. xing
1.04      Rwanda is a landlocked country covering an area of approximately
26,000 km2, The topography is hilly to mountainous with elevation and
rainfall increasing from east to west. The population of Rwanda is
estimated at about 5.5 million with an annual growth rate of approximately
3.7Z. Population density is one of the highest in Africa, about 400
inhabitants per square kilometer of usable land. Only 5Z of the population
lives in urban areas. Smallholder and rainfed agriculture is the
predominant feature of the economy. There are about one million
smallholdings. Population pressure has resulted in diminishing farm size
wit't more than half of the farm families occupying less than 1 ha and
another 30% between 1 and 2 ha. Average annual rural family income is
about US $550 (US $70 per capita).
1.05      In recent years, Rwanda has been a good economic performer; real
GDP grew at an average rate of 5.3Z per annum between 1970 and 1982. The
agricultural sector is the most important contributor to the national
economy. Its share of GDP at current prices has averaged about 40Z in
recent years with food crops contributing about 80Z of this. In 1983,
agricultural products accounted for 82Z of the total value of exports, with
coffee alone representing 66% and tea 12%.
1.06      About half of Rwanda's land area can be used for agriculture.  Of
this, 5C% is planted in food crops: beans, sweet potatoes, cassava, beer
banana and sorghum (and more recently, potatoes, maize and peas). About 5%
is under export or industrial crop cultivation, mainly coffee, but also tea
and approximately 40% is used as pasture land, wood lots and fallow.
Rapidly growing population pressure has resulted in an expansion of the
area under cultivation at the expense of forested areas, grazing lands and
the practice of fallow. Declining land availability has led to an
intensification of agriculture through double cropping. Despite the high
fertility of soils in much of the country, the adaptability of farmers and
relatively well-developed traditional agricultural systems, there is
mounting evidence that productivity is falling as a result of overcropping,
increased cultivation of marginal lands and erosion in some fragile areas
(see W. Jones and R. Egli -Farming Systems in Africa - the Great Lakes
Highlands of Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi", World Bank Technical Paper No.
27, 1984).
1.07      Up to tne present, food production seems to have kept pace with
population growth, roughly maintaining national food self-sufficiency.
However, national statistics indicate that the growth of agricultural
output may be slowing down after a period of relatively strong growth, 5.8%
per annum in the period 1974-81. During the period 1981-84, the average
annual growth rate was about 3.5%, less than the population growth rate.
Commercial food imports (mainly wheat, rice, oils, salt and sugar)
accounted for about 8% of total value of merchandise imports in 1984 (US
$11 million). Normal food aid flows in recent years have been in the order
of 10,000 to 15,000 tons of cereals, beans, powdered milk and vegetable
oils.



1.08      Rwanda experienced substantial crop failures in 1984 due to poor
rain early in the year. The Goverrment responded quickly to a potential
food crisis by assisting farmers to plant dry swamp lands and river
valleys. Donors provided an additional 27,000 tons of food aid, the
arrival of which was delayed due to transportation bottlenecks in Kenya.
The rainy season in late 1984 and 1985 has been good and general recovery
is proceeding well.
C. Government's Agricultural Sector Strategy
and Major Issues of Agriculture
1.09      The Third Development Plan (1982-86) reaffirms the predominant
importance of the agricultural sector to the Rwandese economy and stresses
the need to focus greater resources on the critical constraints to
increasing production at the farm level. The means of achieving these
objectives include the following:
(a)  Reorientation of agricultural research to the needs and
constraints of the traditional farm system and strengthening
of links between research and extension.
(b)  Improved organization of field extension services.
(c)  Expansion of agricultural credit.
(d)  Development of food crop marketing, expansion of input
services and improving food crop storage.
(e)  Development of the cooperative movement.
(f)  Strengthening of technical manpower capacity through
expansion of technical schools.
1.10      The major constraints to implementing this strategy include the
Government's difficult budgetary situation, limited sector planning and
management capacity, and the shortage of trained staff in technical and
management fields. A highly decentralized approach to development
featuring numerous integrated rural development (IRD) projects has added
complexity in coordinating interventions in the agricultural sector and
increased the Government's difficulty in formulating and implementing new
policies and national actions. Each IRD project has introduced a separate
extension service, input supply mechanism, credit system, etc.,
contributing to the fragmentation of such services throughout Rwanda.
External agencies have often contributed to this situation because of
insufficiently coordinated actions.
1.11      There is an increasing concern in the Government that past
development efforts have generally not led to significant increases in
agricultural productivity or to viable and sustainable enterprises and



- 4 -
field services. This has prompted a closer scrutiny of proposed
investments, a review of the organization of agricultural field services
and of policies toward agricultural subsidies. In addition, there is an
increasing awareness of the need for better policy analysis, project
prepara:ion and for more effective monitoring, evaluation and control of
projects and services.
D. Government Financing of Agriculture
1.12      Agricultural investments and services are financed from five
sources: the Government, external aid agencies, non-governmental
organizations, the local communes and the general population's collective
and compulsory contribution through public works projects (umuganda).
Government allocations to the sector in recent years have averaged about
RF 1,400 million (US $14 million). About 60% of this has gone to operating
costs of ongoing activities and 40% to the Development Budget. Agriculture
accounts for about 5% of the total Operating Budget and about 15% of the
Development Budget. Allocations to the sector have remained largely
unchanged in nominal prices over the last three years and its share of the
total has also remained constant. The Government has been very successful
in attractin- foreign assistance for the sector. The level of foreign aid
(mainly on concessional terms) has grown steadily in recent years;
expenditures in 1983 from multilateral and bilateral aid sources amounted
to approximately US $32 million. Non-governmental organizations were
estimated to contribute about US $700,000 in 1983. Communal financing and
the contribution of umuganda vary significantly from one commune to the
next, depending on such factors as the level of economic development of the
area, the resource base of the commune and the dynamism of local
leadership. Communal participation in agricultural activities typically
includes the financing of some field level extension agents, establishment
of tree nurseries, erosion prevention measures, forestry plantations on
denuded areas and other specialized activities.
1.13      Cost Recovery.  Direct cost recovery on agricultural services is
low, although it should be noted that the umuganda system can be considered
as a payment in kind, a sort of cost recovery. Under the current
Government policy, most inputs are subsidized to some extent: all tree
seedlings, shoots and cuttings are free as are natural livestock
insemination services. Improved livestock (heifers and smallstock) and
selected seeds are generally sold at prices slightly higher than those for
traditional stock, but much lower than production costs. Most agricultural
tools are sold through private sector channels at market prices although
some newly introduced tools are sold by IRD projects at cost. Veterinary
medicine and services (castrations, wound treatments and small operations)
are charged to stock owners at cost. In principle, farmers pay indirectly
for extension services through local taxes although the communal taxation
system remains poorly organized and most communes cannot afford to pay more
than a few agricultural employees. The impact of subsidies on the
Government's budget has not been large to date because most subsidies are



financed by externally financed projects (seed multiplication, insemination
services, production of tree seedlings and fertilizers imported on a grant
basis, etc.). The problem will increase as such donor financing phases
out.
1.14      There is an increasing awareness in Government of the potential
future impact of subsidies on the Government's budget. Improved cost
recovery for Government input distribution and services is now a Government
objective. Recent initiatives have been taken in some projects to provide
vehicles (motorcycle and bicycles) to staff on a credit basis, to rent
underutilized transport or storage capacity to the private or cooperative
sectors at cost and to provide equipment services at a fee to the local
community. Some projects have introduced greater cost recovery on project
staff housing. Any future project should incorporate cost recovery
measures on inputs and services provided to farmers, should minimize the
need for operating cost outlays by the Government and should be carefully
designed to ensure that such Government outlays, which are required, can be
supported.
E. IDA Assistance to Rwanda's Agriculture Sector
1,15      Previous and Ongoing Bank Group Involvement.  IDA lending for the
rural sector has amounted to US $92.4 million for eight operations as
follows: (a) four area development projects in the eastern savannah, lower
altitude zones, Mutara I and II Projects (Credit 439 RW - US $3.8 million
in 1974 and Credit 937 RW - US $8.8 million in 1980), and the
Bugesera-Gisaka/Migongo I and II Projects (Credit 668 RW - US $14.0 million
in 1977 and Credit 1283 RW - US $16.5 million in 1983); (b) two area
development projects in the Lake Kivu and Zalre-Nile divide zones, the Lake
Kivu Coffee and Food Crop Improvement Project (Credit 1126 RW - US $15.0
million in 1981) and the GBK Forestry and Livestock Project (Credit 1039 RW
- US $21.0 million in 1981); (c) the Cinchona Development Project financed
by Credit 656 RW - US $1.8 million in 1977; and (d) the Agricultural
Research Project (Credit 1546 RW - US $11.5 million). Through these
projects, IDA has been involved in development efforts in several
ecological zones covering a broad spectrum of regional development
activities in all of the major sub-sectors, food crops, export crops
(coffee and cinchona), forestry and livestock. With the exception of the
Cinchona Development Project, the other projects have been of an integrated
development nature, involving substantial investments in agricultural
extension services, construction of roads, and various economic and social
infrastructure and project related research. The Agricultural Research
Project represents the first of a series of new types of projects aimed at
addressing critical sectoral constraints (para. 1.18).
1.16      Performance Evaluation.  To date, there is only one project
(Mutara Agricultural Development Project - Phase I, Credit 439 RW) for
which both a completion report and a PPAR (Sec. M 81-570, 1981) have been
prepared. A Project Completion Report was recently issued for the



- 6 -
Bugesera-Gisaka/Migongo - Phase I Project (Credit 668 RW) and a further
Project Completion Report for the Cinchona Project is under preparation.
These projects resulted in a lower than expected increment in production
and their economic impact was marginal. Being too costly, they were not
sufficiently sustainable. However, there were substantial achievements in
the areas of infrastructure (BGM and Mutara), population settlement
(particLlarly in Hutara), and improved efficiency of administrative and
financial control systems. Among the successful activities developed in
these projects are erosion control, production and distribution of forestry
and fruit tree seedlings, development of vegetable production and
improvement of animal health care.
1.17      Experience from these and other ongoing IDA-supported projects
highlights a number of common issues affecting project performance: (a)
poor database, insufficient knowledge of Rwanda's complex farming systems
leading to poor identification and adaptation of appropriate technicdl
packages and inadequate monitoring of project progress; (b) project
complexity and lack of training and experience of Rwandese management and
staff; (c) excessive diversity of project institutional and organizational
systems made unmanageable by weak agricultural planning, project
preparation, financial control and technical central ministry departments;
(d) insufficient attention to recurrent costs financing; and (e) scarcity
of technical messages for agricultural improvement at the farm level.
Other important constraints to agricultural development are inadequate
Government operating budget allocations to agriculture, inexistent or
unclear sub-sector policies and investment priorities and poor coordination
of donor-suppGrted activities.
1.18      IDA's sectoral dialogue and lending strategy is based on these
lessons of experience and on a more general analysis of sector
performance, In-depth discussions with the Government in November 1983 led
to the main recommendation to move away from an exclusive emphasis on
IRD-type projects (still the most common model of bilateral and
multilateral donor financed projects in Rwanda) which have not resulted in
the development of economically viable and replicable technical support
services to the agricultural sector. As a result of sector discussions,
priority areas retained for medium-term lending include: (a) development
of Government agricultural services essential for agricultural
intensification, agricultural and veterinary extension, credit services and
other agricultural services; (b) institution building to strengthen
planning, project preparation, monitoring and evaluation, financial
budgeting and control and training; (c) development of private sector
services for agricultural marketing, input supply and agricultural produce
processing; (d) further export crop development; and (e) identification and
implementation of technical training priorities. The proposed operation
would be the second IDA-financed project to fully support the above sector
strategy, as it would address key issues of agricultural services
(extension in particular) and sectoral management. The first was the
Agricultural Research Project which addressed agriculture research
sub-sector development issues at the national level. Other projects
currently under preparation are designed also to contribute to the



- 7 -
implementation of this strategy. A Second Forestry Project is intended to
strengthen Government's efforts to Lmplement its national forestry policy,
with strong emphasis on the developm!ent of the institutional capacity
needed for the management of the sub-sector. Other projects are intended
to strengthen the national services related to livestock and coffee.
II. RWANDA'S AGRICULTURE SERVICES
A. The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests (MINAGRI)
2.01      Constraints to Sector Planning and Management.  MINAGRI has a
broad mandate for the management of agriculture, livestock, forestry and
other land and water resources. There are four principal technical
departments, including:  (a) the Direction Generale for Livestock which
covers animal production and health, fisheries and poultty production; (b)
the Direction Generale for Agricultural Production which covers
agricultural extension, selected seeds, plant protection, industrial crops
and food crops; (c) the Direction Generale for Rural Engineering and Soil
Conservation covering irrigation, farm tools and mechanization, topography
and soil analysis, anti-erosion and soil conservation activities; and (d)
the Direction Generale for Forestry covering the maintenance and
exploitation of natural forests, reforestation and agro-forestry. The
Secretariat-GEn6ral of the ministry is responsible for coordination and
control of the technical service departments, supervision of agricultural
projects (approximately 50) and general sector planning, management and
administration. MINAGRI has about 2,500 staff in the four technical
departments and the Secretariat-General. Most of this personnel is posted
in the field as prefectoral and communal technicians and extension staff.
Two organizational charts are provided (Charts 1 and 2). IBRD Map 19382
shows the main agricultural projects under implementation.
2.02      A number of separate services and agricultural parastatals also
come under the jurisdiction of the ministry, including the Selected Seed
Service (SSS), the National Agricultural Survey (SNEA) (Service National
des Enquetes Agricoles), several agricultural training centers and four
parastatals in charge of coffee (OCIR-Cafe), food crop and livestock
marketing (OPROVIA), development of the Mutara region (OVAPAM) and national
agricultural research (ISAR). The management of several other
agro-industrial commercial services and parastatals for tea (OCIR-ThE),
pyrethrum (OPYRWA), sugar (La Sucrerie) and rice (La Riziculture), etc.,
was recently transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Artisanal
Development (MINIMART).
2.03      Government has made important efforts to improve its general
planning capacity, especially with the UNDP/IDA-financed Technical
Assistance Project chiefly designed to strengthen the Ministry of
Planning. Parallel efforts are also underway to improve the public finance
management capability of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the



Government has recognized that reinforcement of the programming, monitoring
and evaluation, and budgeting and financial control functions of MINAGRI is
a prerequisite to improving the effectiveness of Government policies and
interventions in the sector. Currently, these planning and management
functions are the responsibility of the Secretariat-General.  The major
constraints include:
(a) insufficiency of qualified and adequately trained staff in
both technical and management field;
(b) the absence of well-defined objectives, systems and
procedures for the efficient implementation of priority
activities;
(c) the lack of well-developed information systems and technical
documentation at the field and central level; and
(d) ina4equate physical facilities, office equipment and
logistic support for ministry staff and operations.
B.  Government's Agricultural Extension and Related Services
2.04      The Government's agricultural field services manage extension and
other agricultural services. Each prefecture in Rwanda (ten in total) has
a resident agronomist, a veterinarian and sometimes a forester supervising
comimnal level agronomists, veterinarians and foresters (in principle, one
of each per commune). There are an average of 14 communes per prefecture.
The agronomist at the commune level supervises the extension workers, of
whicb there is in principle, one per "secteur (average of 11 secteurs per
commnue). Total staff available in the field to carry out extension and
service work amounts to 68 agronomists having some post-secondary education
and 2,075 field level extension agents (Annex 2). These staff are
responsible for applying the Ministry of Agriculture's directives on
extension and agriculture services, but are paid by a number of different
sources (MINAGRI, parastatals, projects, other ministries and private
sector).
2.05      MINAGRI issues yearly quantitative directives focussing on a
yearly priority (year of the tree, year of agriculture-livestock
association, of erosion control, etc.). These directives also include a
number of general themes like eroaion control, reforestation, improved
agricultural production techniques, use of improved seeds, stall feeding of
cattle, etc. MINAGRI gives directives to the prefecture agriculturalists,
veterinarians or foresters who are supposed to pass them on to field level
extension agents. Agricultural staff and farmers are legally obliged to
adhere to the directives.
2.06      The existing extension system as presently conceived, organized
and implemented has received little endorsement and support, particularly



-9-
from donor-assisted projects, which at present cover more than 100 of the
143 coumunes of Rwanda (IBRD Map 19382) and has proved ineffective. The
core problems of the system are the following: (a) there are a
multiplicity of activities undertaken by agricultural staff at all levels
who are paid and managed by a number of different institutions, and
therefore, not coordinated within a single national extension system; there
are as many extension systems in Rwanda as there are donor projects and
agricultural parastatals; (b) the centrally designed national extension
themes are usually ill-adapted to the different farm conditions and
circumstances characterizing various agro-ecological regions; (c) related
to the above, adaptive research is insufficient in quality and quantity
(para. 2.08); (d) the motivation of extension staff is poor due to
insufficient equipment, training, supervision and salaries; and (e) the
availability of farm inputs is limited and the improved seed production
distribution system is ineffective (para. 2.10). The extension and other
agriculture service systems are not contributing to needed agricultural
intensification. They are costly and have not proven to be replicable
although several regional projects present features which could be
introduced into a national program.
2.07      Livestock Activities.  Government efforts to develop the
livestock sector have been directed both at ranching and integration of
livestock and smallstock within the farm system. There are numerous
ongoing efforts throughout the country to encourage permanent and
semi-stall feeding of livestock (the fermette" concept), and to upgrade
the quality of smallstock. MINAGRI has also tried to develop a network of
livestock services including veterinary services. These efforts have been
developed in the framework of externally-financed IRD projects and have not
led to institutionalization of these services.
C. Agriculture Research
2.08      L'Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda (ISAR) created
after independence in 1962 is responsible for agricultural and livestock
research. Up to 1981, ISAR was supported mainly by Belgian aid and
received limited funds from IDRC-Canada (sorghum, triticale and oil seed
crop breeding), the Swiss Government (forestry, coffee and some food crop
research) and from other donors through rural development projects. ISAR
manages seven research stations throughout the country (IBRD Map 19380).
Traditionally, ISAR's efforts have been mainly directed to improving
husbandry standards for industrial crops (coffee and tea) and introducing
and testing new varieties of selected food crops (e.g. maize, sweet potato
and beans). In general, research efforts have been conducted in isolation
from small farmer problems and farming systems, and without effective
coordination. ISAR's activities were reduced considerably after 1981 when
Belgian support stopped. To remedy the situation, the recently approved
IDA-financed Agricultural Research Project (Credit 1546 RW) was designed
to: (a) provide for technical assistance to develop a long term national
research strategy; (b) introduce a national multidisciplinary research



- 10 -
approach organized by commodity; (c) strengthen farming systems and
adaptive research; (d) strengthen research management, programming,
evaluation and review; (e) establish a documentation and information
system; (f) strengthen capabilities for research monitoring and evaluation;
(g) strengthen linkages with the international research centers; and (h)
develop a seed certification, multiplication and distribution system.
D. Farm Inputs
2.09      Modern farm inputs are not widely used in Rwanda despite a
relatively dense network of small rural shops and markets, cooperatives and
informal farmers' groups which have the facilities to distribute them.
Farm inputs are imported by several private importers located in Kigali by
a large cooperative enterprise (TRAFIPRO) and by several bilateral aid
supported projects. The limited use of modern farm inputs is caused by
their limited availability, lack of farmer knowledge and demand, and often
because of farmer aversion to taking the risk of spending limited cash
income on inputs with unproven benefits. There are, however, cases in
Rwanda where the value of certain kinds of inputs have been proven (potato
seed in the west and insecticide for coffee plants), creating a demand met
swiftly by the network of cooperatives and private suppliers. Government
involvement in input procurement and distribution is mainly related to
inputs for coffee, and to a lesser extent, to animal health drugs and
vaccines. The Government's strategy for the intensification of
agricultural and livestock production relies largely on increased and more
widespread use of agricultural inputs. The pace at which this can occur
depends on a number of factors such as: (a) the time necessary to adapt
new inputs to farming systems (crop treatments, farm tools, improved plant
material, tree varieties and breeds of livestock); (b) the need to redefine
Government policy on subsidization and cost recovery both of which affect
adoption by farmers; (c) the necessary development of efficient channels
for distributing and servicing new inputs; and (d) the development of
marketing opportunities for the increased marketable production.
2.10      Improved breeder seeds, shoots and cuttings are produced by the
research establishment (ISAR). From these, a national Selected Seed
Service (SSS) project supported by Belgian aid produces base seeds and
cuttings which are multiplied and distributed by regional agricultural
development projects. This system is characterized by: (a) insufficient
collaboration between ISAR, SSS and the regional projects; (b) lack of
trained staff and infrastructure for seed production, multiplication and
distribution; (c) no formalized seed control and certification system; (d)
very high production costs at all levels; (e) insufficient multi-location
trials of varieties proposed to farmers; and most importantly (f) scarcity
of productive varieties and poor quality of breeder seeds. One of the
objectives of the IDA-supported Agricultural Research Project (para. 2.08)
is to develop a national certified seed multiplication and distribution
policy. Seedlings (forest and fruit trees) are produced by MINAGRI and the
regional projects through tht establishment and operation of tree nurseries
in all communes.



- 11 -
E. Agricultural Produce Marketing and Pricing
2.11      Price incentives and local marketing conditions are critical
determinant of farmers' production decisions. With mounting land pressures
and a growing demand for food crops, the development of more efficient
local and inter-regional marketing will become increasingly important in
providing incentives for intensification of production. The private sector
is dominant in agriculture and in agro-industry and recent surveys (USAID)
have found the business climate to be good in Rwanda. However, the
marketing system is largely undeveloped for crops other than the industrial
crops. The main constraints to development of better marketing systems and
of rural businesses include Jack of credit, lack of entrepreneurs and
managers, lack of investment ideas and of knowledge about how to develop
investment projects. Finally, the marketable surplus of agricultural
products is limited. Government involvement in agricultural produce
marketing is mainly in coffee and tea, which Government controls for
strategic reasons given the overwhelming importance of these two crops for
Rwanda's balance of payments. Government interventions in food marketing
and in agricultural prices are limited at present to the distribution of
food aid, handling of public sector procurement and limited price
stabilization measures (through the crop purchases of a parastatal,
OPROVIA). Government has pursued a policy of some balance between private
and public sector involvement in agricultural marketing and processing.
For tea and pyrethrum, the Government is considering divesting existing
parastatal enterprises to the private sector.
F. Agricultural Credit and Finance
2.12      Rwanda's financial system is simple and consists of the following
institutions: the central bank (BNR), three commercial banks (Banque
Commerciale du Rwanda, Banque de Kigali and Banque Continentale Africaine -
Rwanda (BACAR), a network of cooperative banks (Banques Populaires), a
Savings Association (Caisse d'Epargne du Rwanda), a mortgage bank (Caisse
Hypoth6caire) and a development bank (Banque Rwandaise de Developpement -
(BRD) ). All these institutions have headquarters in Kigali, but some of
them have branches in the interior of the country. With the exception of
the commercial banks, Government-owned financial institutions are
supervised by the National Bank of Rwanda (BNR). BNR regulates Bank
equity, equity investments by banks and exposure to any single erterprise.
Rwanda's financial system is highly specialized. Because of the short-term
nature of bank resources, commercial banks may not, unless authorized by
BNR, engage in long-term lending (more than four years). Long-term lending
is the domain of institutions such as BRD and the Caisse Hypoth&caire.
Commercial banks are mainly active in import and export financing and
overdrafts to local companies.
2.13      The rural banking establishment is the Union des Banques
Populaires (Union of Village Cooperative Banks). There are now 65 such



- 12 -
village cooperative banks in Rwanda, of which 61 are in rural areas. Their
number is expanding at a rate of five to seven new banks per year. In
1983, total credit outstanding grew by 13% and savings by 27Z. The
objective of the Banques Populaires is to promote savings, provide credit
to members in the agricultural, artisanal, small-scale industry and
commercial domaine and contribute to the development of cooperatives in
Rwanda. These banks hold 23% of the national savings and 4% of the
national credit outstanding. In 1983, they had 60,400 individual members,
66,700 saving deposits and 5,050 loans outstanding (most of them for
housing and short-term commercial operations).
2.14      The lending policy of the Banques Populaires is conservative.
The banks are managed independently from the Government but are subject to
Government (BNR) rules and regulations. Most loans are extremely small
(65% lower than US $500 equivalent). The Banques Populaires have wisely
concentrated on institution building, on gaining the confidence of their
largely rural members and on good financial management. They are eager to
develop their lending activities for production purposes in the
agricultural and agro-industrial sector. To this end, the Banques
Populaires have engaged in a strategy to decentralize their apex office to
the prefectures, to continue the expansion of their local bank network, to
develop training and management assistance, and to identify new lending
methods.
2.15      Timely loan recoveries (as a percent of amounts due) have
averaged 80%. This results from the good banking management system
established by the Banques Populaires including a relatively good loan
recovery mechanism. In addition, the Banques Populaires have established
their own guarantee fund which currently amounts to RF 24.0 million. The
interest rate on loans by the Banques Populaires is 9% to lZ compared to a
rate of price inflation in Rwanda estimated at 6.6Z in 1983 and 5.4% in
1984. However, this lending rate is lower than that of BRD which varies
from 11% to 13% depending on the type of loan. This lower lending rate is
justified by lower costs of their own resources (demand deposits) and low
operating costs due to their cooperative structure (unpaid volunteer Board
members, free office accommodation provided by collectivities, etc.). The
Banques Populaires receive an operating subsidy from the Swiss Government
(US $500,000 equivalent in 1983). Since the Banques Populaires' operating
results have considerably improved over the previous years (the operating
ratio excluding subsidy was 1.96 in 1980, 1.44 in 1981, 1.27 in 1982 and
1.05 in 1983), the level of the subsidy is expected to be substantially
lower in the future.
2.16      The Government is encouraging the Banques Populaires to expand
their agricultural credit activity in rural areas. The Banques Populaires
have also set more ambitious institution building objectives. These
include improved financial management and accounting consistent with an
increasingly large and complex operation, increased infrastructure
development, improved staff training, establishment of more formal
contractual agreements with the Government, improved personnel policy,
development of regional banking centers (at the prefectoral level),



- 13 -
expanded lending in the area of agricultural marketing, agro-industry and
artisanat. The Banques Populaires do not require a line of credit since
member savings are considered adequate to cover expanded rural lending in
the near future.
G. Cooperatives and Farmers' Groups
2.17      The number of cooperatives and farmers' groups in Rwanda is
estimated at about 3,500, of which 80% have less than 50 members. Support
to cooperatives is provided by the Direction Generale du Mouvement
Cooperatif in the Ministry of Youth and Cooperatives (MINIJEUCOOP). The
Direction Generale has a budget equivalent to US $300,000, of which 80% is
for salaries. Its 143 front line agents based at comninal level are under
the administrative authority of the bourgmestres. Cooperatives are
supported by a number of donors: (a) the local Crop Storage Project
(financed by USAID with technical assistance from the Cooperative League of
USA-CLUSA) was designed to construct 40 cooperative silos; (b) the
Cooperative Research and Training Center (CFRC-IWACU) supported by USAID
and Swiss aid has emerged as a central institution of support to
cooperatives; IWACU carries out training and research on the economic,
social and management aspects of cooperative development, its budget partly
covered by training and service fees; and (c) a Belgian NGO, the Compagnons
bStisseurs or COOPIBO, appraised a cooperative support project in the
Gitarama prefecture to be implemented beginning in July 1985 in association
with IWACU; this project will establish a Cooperative Service Center in
Gitarama (CSCG) to provide cooperatives with management, marketing, legal
and accounting assistance.
H. The Gitarama Region
2.18      The region chosen for the implementation of the proposed pilot
activities is the Gitarama prefecture (IBRD Map 19381). It covers an area
of 2,188 km2 or 8.3% of the country's total area. It is.the only
prefecture with no international border and it occupies a central location
in the country. The population is estimated at about 723,000 inhabitants
in 1983 (with a 3.7% growth rate), or 12.1% of the country's population.
The prefecture has 17 com-ines whose area vary from 92 to 121 km2. It has
171 sectors. The population of the commines varies from 26,000 to 57,000
(1978 figures) with densities from 200 to 400 inhabitants per ki2. The
population is almost entirely agricultural. Women are providing more
on-farm labor than men (slightly more than 50%) and are more frequently
present on the farm. Twenty-six percent of all smallholdings are directly
managed by women. Work on the farm is divided between sexes with women
more occupied with food crops and smallstock on the fields closer to the
house. Men generally handle the cash crops and cattle and crops cultivated
on fields away from the farm house.



- 14 -
2.19      Food crops are the principal economic activity.  The main food
crops are beans, cassava, sweet potatoes, sorghum, maize and banana.
Cassava cultivation is increasing everywhere and particularly in the
poorest areas where it serves as a critical food reserve. Coffee is the
only significant industrial crop. There are 11 million coffee trees shared
between 98,000 farms, but they occupy less than 1Z of the total cultivated
area (against 4X for banana cropping). Despite natural handicaps and the
large dispersion of individual plantations, the Gitarama prefecture
produces 20% of the country's coffee. Other industrial crops are limited:
rice is grown on 140 ha in the Mukunguli valley and sugar cane trials are
being carried out in the Klgoma area. Fruit and vegetable crops are
relatively well developed in most of the communes. The status of planted
forests (9,500 ha) is poor. They tend to be overexploited partly because
there are no management arrangements for rational exploitation and because
of strong pressures on the demand side as alternative sources of
construction wood or domestic energy are limited. Although there is little
space available for new forest plantations, the potential for increasing
forestry resources remains significant and existing forests (eucalyptus,
grevillea and cypress) should in many cases be upgraded or reconverted for
better productivity. Livestock traditionally plays an important role in
the prefecture with 130,000 cattle (16% of the country's herd) and 143,000
sheep and goat. The number of pigs is also significant at 15,000.
2.20      The Gitarama prefecture displays all of the institutional and
farming problems faced by Rwanda as described above. There are several
specific agricultural problems in the Gitarama prefecture which improved
agricultural services would have to address: (a) mounting evidence of a
decrease in soil fertility due to the progressive decline in fallow
practices, mounting pressure on land characterized by increasingly small
farm size and the intensification of cropping resulting in continuous
cropping; (b) shortage of animal feed because of increasing competition
between agricultural production, forestry and livestock; (c) plant and
animal diseases which cannot now be treated adequately due to lack of
services and appropriate products; and (d) chronic shortage of wood for
construction and domestic energy. Although it has benefitted less from
externally financed agricultural development operations than the rest of
the country, the Gitarama prefecture has been the site of a number of
interventions by official multilateral (ILO and UNICEF) and bilateral
(Federal Republic of Germany, France and Belgium) assistance and NGO's
(e.g. Catholic Relief Services). Most of these interventions have been on
a limited scale, covering a relatively small part of the prefecture and
relating to a wide range of activities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Sector Strategy and Rationale for the Project
3.01      The proposed project would be a key instrument for the
implementation of the Government's sector stragegy outlined above with the



- 15 -
twin objectives of stimulating agricultural production, employment and
income and improving management of the sector. In line with these
objectives, the project would include two main components: (a) the
Gitarama Agricultural Production component; and (b) the MINAGRI
Institutional Development component. The major objective of the Gitarama
Agricultural Production component would be to test a model of agricultural
extension and services and of agricultural promotion which would be more
efficient, replicable at the national level and institutionally and
fnancially sustainable. A second objective would be to increase
agricultural and livestock production and farmer's revenue in the
prefecture of Gitarama by addressing the priority constraints farmers face
to produce, get necessary supplies or market their produce. The project
would develop on a pilot and gradually expanding basis:
(a) the continued extension of existing technical packages and
the on-farm adaptive research of promising new extension
themes;
(b) an agricultural extension service;
(c) related agricultural services in the livestock, seed supply,
adaptive research and rural forestry areas;
(d) credit facilities for financing agriculture and small-scale
agro-processing and input supply marketing enterprises; and
(e) promotional activities to assist entrepreneurs to establish
small-scale and artisanal rural enterprises.
The project would therefore be the first phase of a multiphased development
effort which would first introduce the new extension, services and
promotion system as the expected basis for the national agricultural
support activities, and then improve the system's operation over time. It
would address mainly extension and services and private sector development
issues, and would also test concepts and organization systems relating to
extension/research coordination, improved seed multiplication, agricultural
credit and forestry and agro-forestry development also being addressed
under other Baik-supported projects (Agricultural Research Project and
Second Forestry Project under preparation). The impact of project
activities in Gitarama would be carefully monitored and evaluated.
Successful services would then be replicated in a much wider area in Rwanda
in subsequent operations. Services developed under existing regional
development projects would also eventually be slowly consolidated into this
expanding national agricultural services system which is expected to be
considerably cheaper to operate and more efficient than the present
patchwork of regional systems. In addition, the major objective of the
MINAGRI Institutional Development component would be to reinforce the
ministry's sector management capability, including project preparation,
monitoring and evaluation capacity. The component would be the first phase
of a longer term effort to rationalize the organization of the ministry's
management and technical services at the c'ntral and field levels, to



- 16 -
sharpen technical skills of the ministry staff and to improve the design,
management and cost-effectiveness of agricultural services. Under the
project, financing would also be included for the conduct of a study for
the development of the Nyabarongo Valley, an area of great potential for
intensification of agricultural production in a country where the prospects
of expansion of cultivated area are virtually non-existent.
B. Summary Description of Project
3.02      The main features of the operation involving investment policies
and institutional development are as follows:
Extension and Agriculture Services
(a) Identification and introduction to farmers in Gitarama of
specific agricultural recommendations designed to increase
productivity of land and labor and to increase farm income;
this will involve on-farm adaptive research.
(b) Introduction of a unified extension management system with
adequate support and supervision of field staff, regular
in-service training, monitoring and evaluation, better staff
incentives and increased mobility. It would also establish
functional links between research and extension. Activities
would be based largely in the Gitarama prefecture, with
support from MINAGRI's headquarters.
Cc) Support to improve production and distribution of plant
material in Gitarama.
(d)  Support to comnunal forestry services and anti-ercson
activities in Gitarama.
Ce) Support to veterinary services in Gitarama.
Promotion and Financing of Agriculture, Farm Input Supply,
Agro-processing and Marketing
(a) Support for the Banques Populaires' credit activity in
Gitarama in terms of developing new credit instruments,
lending techniques, staff and infrastructure.
(b) Assistance to cooperatives, informal farmers' groups,
artisans and private enterprises in order to develop
agro-processing, marketing and farm input supply activities.
Nyabarongo Valley Master Plan Study
Technical, economic and financial studies of various alternatives
for the development of part of the Nyabarongo Valley.



- 17 -
MINAGRI Institutional Development
Support to MINAGRI for the purpose of improving sector planning,
project preparation, monitoring and evaluation of agricultural
services and projects, accounting and financial management,
documentation and general administration.
C. Detailed Features, Extension and Agricultural Services
Development and Introduction of Specific Extension Packages
3.03      One of the major constraints for the development of agriculture
in Rwanda is the scarcity of technical messages at the farm level (para.
1.17), in particular for food crops.  The design of the component is based
on strengthening the agricultural services aiming at: (a) greater
efficie icy in the extension of a limited number of proven extension
packages; and (b) on-farm testing of promising new farming practices with a
view to lumediate extension once proven acceptable to farmers.
3.04      Proven Extension Themes.  The most well established existing
extension themes are those for coffee: pruning, insecticide treatments,
mulching and plantation renewal. Until recently, these themes were
extended by a separate corps of extension workers (OCIR-Cafe), but under
the component they would be included in a unified extension system (para.
3.07). For bananas, the most important cash crop for most farmers through
the sale of banana beer, clearing of banana groves has proven highly
successful because of its effect on increased production and the increased
acreage available for intercropping with beans. For soybeans, two improved
varieties are available for distribution (Palmetto and Davis) and
improvements can be made in planting density. Maize, presently grown for
home consumption is mostly intercropped with beans. An improved variety
(katumani) is available for the lover altitudes.  More general themes that
have proven successful and that will continue to be extended concern: (a)
the intensification of livestock production through improved animal health
services (detiquage), stall feeding of cattle and increased usage of goats
and sheep; (b) increased usage and improvement of compost and farm yard
manure; (c) plant protection, in particular for sweet potatoes, soil
conservation and erosion control through gradual on-farm terracing and
contour line planting of fodder crops and trees; and (d) continued
reaforestation of margin lands through communal activities (umuganda).
3.05      Extension Themes to be Tested.  As a result of a survey of a
representative sample of farmers during the preparation phase of the
project in the first sous-prefecture to be reorganized (para. 3.07), the
following packages mak become available for further extension after one to
three years of on-farm testing:
(a) For coffee: fertiliser usage, mulching techniques better
adapted to local circumstances, introduction of cover crops



-,18 -
(tested in the Nyabisindu Project), the improvement of
existing plant protection techniques and the improvement of
hand pulpers manufactured by local artisans.
(b) For bananas: introduction of new cooking banana varieties,
the use of by-products (as mulch or cattle feed), improved
planting and maintenance techniques to improve erosion
control and introduction of plant protection techniques.
(c) For soybeans: introduction of inoculation techniques.
(d) For maize: development of a technical package for "market
gardening' of maize for the smallest farms that would allow
the introduction of fertilizers.
(e) For haricot beans: introduction of new varieties expected
to be released soon as a result of the regional CIAT
bean research program, introduction of staked beans,
intercropped with maize (natural stake), an already wide
spread practice in the north western part of the country.
(f) For tubers: introduction of new disease resistant varieties
of sweet potatoes and cassava expected to be released soon
by ISAR and the development of pest control techniques.
(g) For soil conservation and erosion control: improvement of
the present package 'passe partout- through the introduction
of new species of ground covers, fodder crops and trees to
be used on the edges of the terraces and on narrow slopes
between terraces too steep, to cultivate and adaptation of
technical packages taking into account local circumstances
(soils, morphology, slopes, etc.)
(h) For agro-forestry: introduction of woody species in the
farming system through the field testing of species known to
be beneficial in terms of erosion control, fertilization,
fodder, etc.
(i)  For livestock production:  research on the optimum
integration of livestock on small farms without sufficient
space for fodder production and in the absence of fallow
land.
Available technology, both proven and to be tested, is not expected to
bring about a green revolution simply because the recipes do not exist.
Expected yield increases are modest (Table 3.1) and would be obtained
through a gradual change in the farming system through multiple small
improvements of each of its components. If fertilizer usage becomes
economically feasible, this may become the single most important factor in
increasing crop production. Present usage is minimal.



- 19 -
Table 3.1:  Yields
(ton/ha)
Actual      Improved
Coffee               0.5           0.6
Bananas               7.0          8.0
Cassava              5.0           6.0
Sweet potatoes        4.0          5.0 (6.0 /a)
Haricot beans         0.7          0.8
Soybeans             0.6           0.7 (0.9 Ab)
Maize                0.8           0.9 (2.8 7G)
Sorghum              0.9           1.0 (2.5 7T)
/a With insecticide.
/b With fertilizer.
3.06      The Adaptive Research Approach.  The approach proposed under the
component will primarily consist in the identification of most frequent
farmers' constraints. Certain of these constraints such as varietal
improvement are of the competence of the National Research Institute
(ISAR), being strengthened under the Agricultural Research Project.
Others, such as farming practices, crop husbandry, soil fertility
management and improving crop rotations will need to be resolved through
on-farm testing because of their site specificity (soils, climate and
farming system). Such testing would be carried out by the extension
service. The present extension system would therefore be reinforced with
three university graduates (AO) at each of the four sous-prefectures. They
would have overall responsibility for all on-farm research. For most of
the field work, they would rely on A2 level technical staff (secondary
education plus three years agricultural training) at each of the 17
communes. Both types of staff would be fully integrated in the extension
system and also have an important responsibility for the training of all
levels of extension staff. ISAR scientists would be made available to
assist in on-farm test design, the preparation of research protocoles and
ISAR's facilities would be used for laboratory analysis. If necessary,
separate surveys would be undertaken in collaboration with ISAR to identify
major pests and diseases and their economic threshold values for
treatment. Funds have been included under the Credit to finance ISAR's
participation and to finance short term external consultancies to
investigate specific problems. Two ISAR scientists will have specific
responsibility for carrying out ISAR's program in the Gitarama prefecture.
Presentation of a satisfactory formal contractual arrangement for year 1
would constitute a condition of Credit effectiveness. A contractual
arrangement between ISAR and MINAGRI for adaptive research would be updated
each year in the context of the component's annual work program and
subjected to IDA approval (para 5.05).



-.20 -
The Extension System
3.07      The proposed extension methodology results from the lessons of
experience accumulated over the years in Rwanda in a number of projects
financed by the Government, IDA and other donors (e.g. Belgium,
Switzerland, Federal Republic of Germany and France). A seminar on
extension held in July 1984 was attended by representatives of all
important ongoing agricultural development projects and those of the donor
ccm.inity, and its outcome served as the basis of project design. The
basic principles, objectives and content of the proposed system were
extensively discussed with other donors and NGO's during project
preparation. Their possible participation in the extension of the
organization principles proposed would eventually depend on the results of
the pilot. They would. however, be closely associated in the monitoring of
the system and in the definition of criteria to be used for the project
evaluation. Coordination mechanisms would be developed to this end (para.
5.02). During negotiations, it was agreed that MINAGRI and OCIR-Cafe would
sign an agreement defining precisely the responsibilities of the latter in
support of the extension activities for coffee in the prefecture.
Activities under the component would start in one sous-prEfecture to test
the proposed adaptive research (para. 3.06) and extension systems. After
two years, thA remaining three sous-prefectures would be added to the
system. The organization of the extension system (Chart 1) would parallel
the present administrative organization. MaNAGRI has nominated a
prefecture agricultural coordinator who, assisted by a deputy and a chief
accountant, would report to the Director of Agricultural Promotion in the
Agricultural Production Directorate (Ch8-t 2) who has been nominated
fonctionnaire dirigeant- 1/ for the project. A sous-prefecture
agricultural officer for each of the four sous-prefectures would be
responsible for the supervision of: (a) the adaptive research team (para.
3.06); and (b) the communal extension officers, one A2 level staff at each
of the 17 communes.  The latter, in turn, would directly supervise:   (i)
an estimated 171 field extension agents (down from 300 at present); and
[ii) the communal technical officers who would have two functions: (A)
on-farm adaptive research and training; and (B) delivery of support
services in animal health, agro-forestry and to a limited extent, in
agricultural input supply (para. 3.09).
3.08      Organization of Field Extension.  Under the system, essentially
T&V adapted to local social and institutional structures, extension agents
working within the framework of a rigorous time schedule including farm
visits, training and reporting would cover all crop, livestock and
agro-forestry activities. On average, each administrative sector (171 for
the prefecture) would be assigned one extension agent. There are usually
500 to 1,200 families per sector, divided in five to six -cellules- of 50
to 200 families. The 17 communes included in the Gitarama prefecture
1/ In the Rwandese administration, a 'fonctionnaire dirigeant- is a high
level staff member in the ministry appointed by the Government to be
responsible for proper implementation of a particular project.



- 21 -
comprise some 130,000 farm families. On average, there would therefore be
one extension agent to every 750 farm families. On the basis of an
inventory of all farmers in his sector, the extension agent would select
four to eight farmers from each cellule who would be visited regularly (in
principle every two weeks). Women who are chiefs of households would also
be selected. The inventory would also identify the different existing farm
types whose progress would be monitored by the monitoring and evaluation
system (paras. 5.06 to 5.08). Female extensionists would be part of the
extension structure, although environment is such that there is no need for
an exclusively female corps of extensionists to work with women farmers.
Support Services
3.09      Direct support services to farmers would in general be the
responsibility of the comainal technical officers (para. 3.07). These
services would consist of:
(a) the organization of the production, quality control and
sales of improved plant material Cmultiplication and
distribution of plant material bought from MINAGRI's
Selected Seed Service);
Cb) the support to erosion control activities through the
establishment of erosion sensitivity maps, the definition of
priority erosion control areas and adapted techniques, and
the provision of complementary funds and implements for the
execution of works by umuganda labor;
(c) the organization of the production (communal nurseries),
quality control and sales of forest and fruit tree
seedlings, and the establishment of comminal forestry plans
in a manner consistent with the national forestry policy;
(d) the provision of animal health services through an increased
network of veterinary dispensaries and the sales of drugs
and other veterinary products for which the project would
finance an initial stock; and
(e) the initial (limited to one year only) sales of agricultural
inputs (fertilizers and pesticides) and implements.
Although the objective of the project is to have input procurement and
distribution entirely handled by the private and cooperative sectors, there
would be a need to initiate distribution of new agricultural inputs and
implements until farmer demand is sufficiently developed to interest
private entrepreneurs. In order to insure availability of relevant new
inputs at this early stage of extension, the project would provide for the
construction of small storage facilities in the communes and would finance
initial expenses not higher than RF 500,000 sufficient to initiate the
distribution of inputs. Also, it is expected that additional revenues to
be g'-nerated through better control and management of communal forests



- 22 -
would allow the communes to increase their present budget allocations to
agricultural development. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
MINAGRI would enter into a contractual relation with each coumine before
March 31, 1986, under which will be specified the modalities of the
communes' contribution to agricultural development activities.
3.10      The three main activities of the component:  (a) the development
and introduction of specific extension packages; (b) the introduction of a
reorganized extension system; and (c) the provision of support services;
would be initially introduced in one sous-prefecture only. Two years after
project start-up, each of these sub-components would be reviewed by the
Government and IDA, and if necessary, amended prior to introducing these
systems in the remaining three sous-prefectures. IDA funds for these three
sous-prefectures would be made available upon the conclusion of a formal
agreement between the Government and IDA on the conclusions of the review
and only after all higher level staff (AO and A2) has been appointed.
Under these conditions, coverage of the entire prefecture would be
completed by December 31, 1988. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. The proposed extension and agricultural services structure
represents a substantial departure from existing systems as described in
Chapter I. Government has consistently endorsed the principles and design
of the proposals during project preparation. The formal Government
agreement to the creation of the new structure was confirmed during
negotiations.
Training
3.11      Training supported under the project would aim to:  (a) upgrade
the technical knowledge of extension and services staff at all levels; (b)
improve commanication skills of all staff so they can effectively share
ideas with farmers and with each other; (c) improve teaching capability at
all management and technical levels; and (d) orient local administrative
staff particularly in the commnnes to the new organization of agricultural
extension and services. The project would provide funds for carrying out
training programs including intensive and regular in-service training for
all staff as well as for short formal training sessions, seminars and
visits to other relevant projects for higher level staff. Training
programs would include initial five-day orientation sessions for all
extension staff on extension methods, coamnnication b6!lls and work
scheduling. Visits to extension systems in other countries would be
financed. In-service training would include yearly one week evaluation and
programming sessions for all staff, monthly one-day workshops organized by
technical specialists for training on new technical messages, fornightly
training organized by communal extension officers at the comm-inal level,
communication methodology courses and refresher courses organized by the
prefectoral agricultural coordinator with assistance of the national
specialist or relevant technical staff and regular correspondence courses
given by INADES (a reputed non-governmental agricultural training
institute) or other relevant institution.



- 23 -
3.12      Training Documentation and Publications.  Funds would be provided
under the project for documentation and to regularly increase and update
this stock with relevant publications. The project would provide for the
publication and updating of a comprehensive extension manual for all
staff. The team of sub-prefecture specialized technicians (paras. 3.17 to
3.18 and 3.23) would be expected to produce occasional technical
publications and teaching manuals, posters and pictures. The use of these
manuals or posters would be taught to every user during the monthly
training workshops at sub-prefecture headquarters. A monitoring manual
would also be developed in the first year of project implementation (para.
5.04).
Equipment and Transportation
3.13      All extension agents, communal technicians and sub-prefecture
level technicians would be provided with relevant professional equipment
(tape measures and portable spring balances), veterinary equipment, flip
charts, maps, poster boards and marker pens. Audio-visual equipment would
be provided at the sub-prefecture for training. Office equipment would be
provided at the communal, sub-prefecture, prefecture and MINAGRI levels.
Technical books and other publications would be financed.
3.14      Effective extension requires a high degree of mobility to enable
field staff to meet farmers regularly and to enable technical and
supervisory staff to make frequent visits in ore-r to provide the direct
guidance needed. The entire system depends on frequent contact between all
levels of staff. To facilitate this, funds have been provided for vehicles
for higher level staff at the prefecture and sub-prefecture levels.  The
Deputy Prefecture Agricultural Coordinator, communal extension officers and
communal technicians will purchase mopeds or motorcycles on credit and
receive indemnities corresponding to their official transportation
requirements as experience shows this to be the best way to insure proper
maintenance. Extension workers would purchase bicycles along the same
principle. According to present practice, repayment amounts are calculated
on the basis of replacement value and they would be deducted from monthly
salary checks and deposited into a bank account to be managed by MINAGRI
and used to purchase new vehicles as required. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
3.15      Funds would be provided to cover incremental motorcycle, bicycle
and travel allowances, as well as other incremental allowances such as
subsistence and overnight allowances as provided in Government
_egulations. Provisions would be made for the financing of the operating
costs of vehicles purchased on a decreasing basis. Recurrent costs of
miscellaneous extension materials (diaries, log books, charts, maps,
instructional materials, small implements, seeds, fertilizers and
pesticides) would also be included under the project.
Civil Works
3.16      In most communes there is a shortage of office space for field
staff. With the appointment of additional staff, this problem would become



- 24 -
acute. Offices, storage facilities and houses for higher level staff would
be constructed in each sub-prefecture. One office (24 m2) would be
constructed in each of the comuzines and the network of veterinary posts
would be completed (19 new ones and 10 rehabilitated). Some facilities for
conducting training sessions would be included at the sub-prefecture
level. Where possible, however, existing training facilities belonging to
other ministries or to the commines would be used. Total buildings to be
constructed over the project period would not exceed 4,000 m2. The
building component of the project has been kept modest and would aim to
meet critical constraints only. Housing would be made available to higher
level staff against payment of rental fees sufficient to cover maintenance
costs of the buildings (not less than 2.0% of investment costs). Rental
fees deducted as a fixed percentage of salaries according to present
practice would be collected and managed by the financial manager of the
component and used to maintain buildings. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
D. Detailed Features: Promotion and Financing
of Agricultural Processing, Marketing and Farm Input Supply
The Investment Promotion Office
3.17      Activities under this component would consist of coordinating and
supporting institutions either national or local, public or private, being
qualified to provide services needed to stimulate the increase of
production. Agricultural credit and financial services to rural areas
would be provided by cooperative, private and Government banks.
Agricultural marketing, processing and input supply would be undertaken
entirely by the private and cooperative sectors but promoted by various
institutions under Government supervision.  These various activities and
the strong linkages to be maintained between most of them make it necessary
to: (a) assign MINAGRI staff specifically responsible for tasks within
this component; and (b) provide for a coordination mechanism and forum
between MINAGRI and the different implementation agencies involved. These
two requirements would be met by the Investment Promotion Office which
would be responsible for coordinating and contracting all promotion
activities to various institutions, including IWACU (para. 2.17), the
Belgian NGO -les Compagnona batisseurs', the International Labor
Organization (ILO) and the Banques Populaires (and possibly other NGOs and
banking institutions).
3.18      The Investment Promotion Office would be staffed with three
senior officers from MINAGRI: a promotion coordinator, a deputy
coordinator and a chief accountant, plus a librarian and the necessary
support staff. The project includes 220 sq. meters of office and 200 sq.
meters of housing construction in Gitarama, vehicles and office equipment,
inrcountry training, short term technical assistance, the services of the
various contracted institutions and a small innovation fund, and on a
decreasing basis, operating costs.



- 25 -
Support to the Banques Populaires
3.19      The need for agricultural credit in the project area is likely to
be in the form of very small individual loans. The Banques Populaires
(para. 2.13), because of its cooperative structure involving low cost
volunteer management, is the institution most able to provide this type of
small credit. Its lending operations in agriculture and related activities
is limited in spite of ample lending funds. The project would support the
effort of the Banques Populaires to increase its lending to agriculture and
agro-related activities in the Gitarama prefecture. The project includes
the construction of a new branch of the Banques Populaires in Gitarama and
the operating costs for two years of two branch agents who will be
appointed to explore new credit opportunities and to monitor loans in
communes not currently served by existing Banques Populaires. After the
second year of the project, operating costs would be taken over by the
Banques Populaires. Signature of a contractual agreement to this effect
between MINAGRI and the Banques Populaires would be a prerequisite for
disbursement for this component. A joint evaluation of the support to the
Banques Populaires in Gitarama would be carried out in the course of the
third year of the project (para. 5.08).  Assuran^es to that effect were
obtained at negotiations.
Support to Cooperatives and Farmers' Groups
3.20      The project will provide support to cooperatives and farmers'
groups through the Cooperative Service Center in Gitarama (CSCG) (para.
2.17). This center was created in 1985 by the Belgian NGO 'les Compagnons
batisseurs' or COOPIBO (who have been closely associated with the
development of Abaruta Cooperative, one of the strongest in Gitarama
prrfecture) and the Cooperative Research and Training Center, IWACU (para
2.17). CSCG would carry out in Gatarama similar activities to what IWACU
provides in Kigali: cooperative management and organization consultancies,
investment studies, cooperative seminars and training. In addition, CSOC
will provide financial support for innovative trials and investments. With
funds currently available from EEC (NGO office) and NGOs, CSOG can provide
training to about 20 cooperatives and farmers' groups per year for five
years and monitor and provide consultancy assistance to about 60 (or about
a third of the existing cooperatives and farmers' groups in Gitarama). The
project would provide additional financing to allow CSCG to train about 60
additional cooperatives and groups and to provide consultancy assistance to
40 more. This assistance would be coordinated with the activity of the
newly introduced extension system. Selection of cooperatives and
programming of activities would be done on the basis of: (a) requests from
the cooperatives and farmers' groups; (b) the implementation program of the
extension and services component; and (c) credit activities in the area.
Investments would include additional staffing and operating costs. It is
expected that the recurrent costs of CSCG would be gradually recovered from
service fees, but it is at this stage not possible to predict at what date
CSC would become self-sustaining. The issue would be reviewed every year
in the process of the annual work plan revie,7. A five year contract would
be signed between MINAGRI and IWACU to serve as a framework of CSCG's
intervention. Signature of this agreement would be a prerequisite for
disbursement for this component.



- 26 -
Support to the Artisanal Sector
3.21      Lack of farm implements is a constraint to agricultural
development in the Gitarama prefecture. In addition, there will be an
increased need for agricultural crop storage and processing equipment as
agricultural production increases. Properly supported, the artisanal
sector can address these needs. There are 650 blacksmiths and 1,600 wood
artisans (mainly carpenters) out of a total of about 9,200 artisans in the
Gitarama prefecture. The main constraints to artisanal development as
identified in ILO surveys in Kigali and Butare are: (a) the difficulties
of official registration by local administrative authorities; (b) difficult
access to credit; (c) lack of supplies of good quality raw materials; and
(d) lack of equipment. The project would support the artisanal sector
through similar activities to those undertaken with ILO assistance in
Kigali and Butare and scheduled for Gisenyi and Ruhengeri, i. e.:
(i) Promotion of self-organization and grouping of the artisans
with the aim of obtaining official recognition.
(ii) Training (management training to be carried out by CSOG,
para. 3.20).
(iii/ Procurement of raw materials and equipment.
(iv) Promotion of credit for equipment.
(v) Promotion of research and development, e. g. for adapted
storage and processing technologies.
Priority would be given to blacksmith activity (production, repair and
maintenance of implements), activities relating to storage, conservation
and processing of agricultural produce and activities using forestry
products (carpentry). Investments would include the salary and operating
costs of a Rwandese trainer, consultant support missions, training,
equipment, research necessary for adapted technology and a revolving fund
for financing of artisanal equipment. An agreement would be signed between
MINAGRI and ILO for the provision of support for the implementation of the
proposed activities.
Innovation Fund
3.22      An innovation fund of RF 6.3 million (US $63,000) would be
released in yearly tranches to fund adaptive research in agricultural
processing and marketing techniques. The fund would be managed by the
Investment Promotion Office and made available for investments in
innovative techniques not eligible for commercial credit. The terms and
conditions of the innovation fund would be specified in each year's annual
work plan (para. 5.05), but would remain flexible.



- 27 -
Documentation, Information and Surveys
3.23      The Investment Promotion Office would be equipped with a
documentation center to collect books, articles and technical magazines on
agricultural storage, processing technologies and agricultural equipment of
use to the promotion component of the project. The project includes a fund
for proeurement of books, articles and magazines. It would also be the
responsibility of the Investment Promotion Office to report on: (a)
existing and potential demand for the various agricultural inputs in
Gitarama, particularly from cooperatives; and (b) inputs available
(suppliers, prices and available stocks). No specific investments are
required for this activity. Finally, the Investment Promotion Office would
identify constraints not directly addressed by the project (road
conditions, legal constraints, etc.) and would propose studies to address
them. Provisions have been made to make possible recruitment of
specialized technical assistance as needed. For studies of a more general
nature, the Investment Promotion Office would prepare terms of reference
for their financing by the study fund under the Ministry of Planning.
E. Nyabarongo Valley Master Plan Study
3.24      Background.  The Nyabarongo River is the largest river of Rwanda
and its regularly inundated valley is one of the very last land resources
available. The area to be studied covers approximately 20,000 ha, of which
about 15,000 ha would be suitable for agriculture. This is the part of the
river valley downstream of its confluence with the Cyacika River up to its
inflow into Lake Rweru, and also includes the Akanyuru River valley
downstream from Busuro at the Burundi border up to its confluence with the
Nyabarongo River. The soils consist of typical fertile alluvial deposits
on levees and in basins and are interspersed with marshes (25%) consisting
of peats and clay peat soils. The least frequently inundated parts of both
valleys are irregularly cultivated and the pressure on the land is
increasing. Development of the valley has long been an objective of the
Government's agricultural strategy. There are however important financial
and technical issues to be resolved which the proposed study would address.
3.25      Master Plan Study Contents.  The study to be financed under the
present project would be executed in seven steps:
(a) Base studies to complete existing pedological, hydrological,
climatological and topographical data, including a land
classification map, a mathematical model of the hydrological
characteristics of the two valleys and their catchment
areas, and a topographical map.
(b) Definition of alternative solutions for the agricultural
development of the two valleys which could range from: (i)
doing nothing; (ii) minimum flood protection and gravity
drainage allowing occasional flooding; to (iii) complete



- 28 -
water control with regulation/reservoir dams in tributary
rivers, drainage by pumping and possibly irrigation.
(c) Decision by the Government on alternative solutions to be
retained for further study.
(d) Pre-feasibility studies of each of the alternative solutions
retained, including sketch plans of large structures,
effects on health and environment, proposals for
agricultural development, proposals for sub-division of the
area in homogeneous schemes (polders), and an economic
evaluation for each of the alternative solutions separately.
(e) Decision by the Government on the solution to be retained
for the preparation of a master plan for the development of
the area and selection of approximately 2,000 ha for the
preparation of preliminary engineering designs.
(f) Detailed master plan preparation.
(g) Preparatioa of preliminary engineering designs and
feasibility studies for each scheme separately for a total
of approximately 2,000 ha.
At the end of each step, consultants would prepare a draft report for
comments by the Government and the Bank, followed by a final report. At
negotiations, the Government agreed to the process described above. The
Government has presented at negotiations a short list of six international
consulting firms agreeable to the Bank. Total costs of the study are
estimated at US $1.2 million for approximately 125 man-months. Provided
that funding has been secured for the execution of one or more schemes and
that funds are still available from the global amount allocated for the
study, financing of detailed engineering studies and preparation of tender
documents could be envisaged under the Credit.
3.26      Institutional Arrangements.  The Direction du Genie Rural of the
Ministry of Agriculture would have first responsibility for the supervision
of consultants. To assist them in this task and to use the institutional
framework created for the Study Fund financed under the first Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1217 RW), high level short term international
consultants would be recruited to assist in the review of each phase of the
study. An inter-ministerial committee including representatives of the
ministries concerned will be created to insure monitoring of the studies.
F. MINAGRI Institutional Development Component
Component Objectives
3.27      Reinforcement of the programming, monitoring and evaluation, and
budgeting and financial control functions of MINAGRI is a prerequisite to



- 29 -
improving the effectiveness of Government policies and interventions in the
sector. The general objectives of the proposed institution building
component are to reinforce and/or develop the systems, procedures and
competence necessary to improve agricultural sector planning and
management. The component aims to strengthen the major functional areas of
the Secretariat-General.  In addition, it would provide technical
documentation and selected training for staff of MINAGRI's technical             L
departments.
3.28      The component is conceived as the first phase of a longer term
effort to rationalize the organization of MINAGRI's management and
technical services at the central and field levels, to sharpen the
technical skills of ministry staff and to improve the design, management
and cost-effectiveness of agricultural services. While project assistance
would be directed primarily at the functions of the Secretariat-General
during this phase, a general review of the operations and organization of
MINAGRI's technical departments would be carried out to identify
appropriate ways to strengthen these services. This review would be
planned in conjunction with an evaluation of the new extension and services
organization to be tested in the Gitarama prefecture (paras. 3.10, 5.14 and
6.06).
3.29      The design and content of the proposed component reflect a number
of operating principles articulated during project preparation as critical
to the success of the institution building effort. These include:
(a) the need for rigorous recruitment, selection and training of
staff essential for upgrading of the Secretariat-Gen6ral
functions;
(b) the need to define the role of technical assistance more
clearly as providing initial, specialized expertise for
developing new systems and intensive staff training; to the
extent possible, long term technical assistance would be
progressively phased out and replaced if necessary '-v short
term follow-up consultancies (one to two months per year);
(c) the need to integrate all project management functions
within the structure of the Secretariat-Gneral and, thus
avoid creation of a separate project unit for implerentation
of the institution building program; and
(d) the importance of streamlining functions and introducing
computers to permit efficient information storage, retrieval
and routine analysis.
3.30      The component would be implemented over a five year period
(1986-90) and would support the institution building activities listed
below:
(a) Sector planning and project preparation.



- 30 -
(b) Ministry staff training.
(c) Monitoring and evaluation of projects and agricultural
services.
(d) Accounting, financial management and control of projects and
services.
(e) Documentation and diffusion of technical publications and
other information.
Cf) General administration including personnel management,
budgeting, correspondence and archives.
(g) Assistance for the computerization of a number of operations
in the ministry.
Detailed Features
3.31      Sector Planning and Project Preparation.  The component would
strengthen the capacity of the Department of Studies and Planning (DEP) to
carry out the principal functions assigned to it, which include:
Ca) sector planning and definition of agricultural strategies;
(b) Identification and preparation of projects;
Cc) coordination of Annual Work Plan preparation and review
exercise for the entire ministry;
Cd) coordination of external donors and non-governmiental
organizations active in the agricultural sector; and
Ce) preparation of and participation in negotiations of
externally-financed projects.
3.32      The main areas of activities and support would include:  (a)
strengthening of staffing capacity and skills through recruitment of
additional staff and provision of extensive local and overseas training for
new and existing staff; (b) technical assistance in policy analysis and
planning and in selected technical fields; (c) development and
implementation of a medium-term program of sector studies; (d) project
preparation; and (e) de7elopment and coordination of ministry staff
training programs.
3.33      Monitoring and Evaluation of Projects and Services.  The
component would develop the systems and staffing capacity of the Department
of Control and Evaluation (DCE) to carry out the major functions assigned
to it, including:
Ca) elaboration of methods and techniques for monitoring and
evaluation of projects and services;



- 31 -
(b) organization and execution of regular project supervision;
(c) monitoring and evaluation of national agricultural
strategies and policies;
(d) evaluation of completed projects and study of issues related
to the post-project period; and
(e) coordination of the preparation of the Ministry's Annual
Report.
3.34      The proposed component would provide support in the following
areas: (a) recruitment and training of additional staff; (b) technical
assistance in monitoring and evaluation techniques and agricultural
statistics; (c) the design and implementation of a project monitoring and
evaluation system; and (d) the development of an Agricultural and Project
Data Bank.
3.35      Accounting, Financial Management and Control of Project and
Services. Under the proposed component, the Cellule de Gestion et de
Comptabilitg of MINAGRI, financed since 1982 under UGM II CCredit 1283 RW)>
will be integrated within the Department of Control and Evaluation (DCE)
which will be reinforced to carry out the following functions:
(a) Assistance to projects and services in implementing standard
accounting systems.
(b) Development of standard financial monitoring formats and
procedures for ministry (DCE) supervision and control of
project financial management practices and expenditures.
Cc) Training of accounting staff of the ministry's services,
projects and other public agricultural entities.
(d) Development of standirdized computer software for projects
and services and assistance to projects in the introduction
of micro-computers for accounting.
3.36      The component would provide support in the following major areas:
(a) additional staff and staff training; (b) technical assistance in
accounting And financial management; (c) project management and accountant
training; and (d) development of computerized monitoring and control of
projects and services.
3.37      Documentation and Diffusion of Technical Information.  The
component would assist in the strengthening of the Bureau of Documentation
and Information (BDI). The major activities in this area would include:
(a) establishment of an Agricultural Documentation Center in
MINAGRI and procurement of additional documentation;



- 32 -
(b)  establishment of a system oi secondary documentation centers
in each prefecture; and
(c) acquisition of basic technical manuals, maps and other
standard documentation and distribution to users in the
ministry, projects and agricultural personnel at the
pr6fecture level.
3.38      To implement the proposed program, the component would provide
for: (a) incremental staffing and training for the BDI and the small
prefectoral documentation centers to be established; (b) short term
conrsultancy; (c) funds for the procurement of technical documentation; and
(d) equipment, furniture and sunplies for the documentation centers.
3.39      General Administration.  The administrative functions of the
ministry currently carried out by the Bureau for Budget Management (Gestion
des Credits), Bureau for Personnel Management (Gestion du Personnel), and
the Bureau for Correspondence and Archives (Courrier et Archives) would be
improved. Specifically, the component would aim to:
(a) strengthen the accounting and control systems for central
and field ministry services;
Cb) reinforce the personnel management office for more effective
staff resources management; and
Cc) streamline the flow of information and corespondence within
the ministry and improve systems for classification, storage
and retrieval of administrative archives.
For all of these administrative functions, there is a need to clarify the
management objectives of the operations being performed, introduce systems
and procedures to enhance the quality of management information, and
computerize operations currently entailing voluminous and routine
calculations and manual registration of information. Support provided by
the component would include: (i) development of a computerized general
accounting system for all ministry services; and Ci) establishment of an
accounting system for the component.
3.40      Computerization Assistance.  The component would assist MINAGRI
to introduce computers for the following activities:
(a) Economic, financial and statistical analysis for projct
preparation, policy studies and sector planning.
(b)  Development of the agricultural data bank.
(c) Monitoring and evaluation of projects and services.
(d) Accounting, budgetary and financial management for projects,
services and central ministry operations.



- 33 -
(e) Personnel management.
(f)  Development of the agricultural documentation reference
system.
3.41      The institution building measures proposed for strengthening
selected operating units of the ministry would involve recruitment of
additional staff in most of the units, short and long term training to
reinforce staff capabilities and introduce new skills, technical assistance
and short term consultancies in specialized fields, office equipment and
vehicles. In addition, the project would include the cost of a study for
the construction of adequate physical facilities for the Ministry of
Agriculture in Kigali.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total costs of the project excluding technical assistants
financed by other donors are estimated at RF 2,337.3 million (US $22.69
million) with a foreign exchange component of about 51%. Costs include
direct taxes of about 10% on civil works, all equipment and operating cost
with the exception of salaries, but exclude import duties since the
Government has indicated that these would be waived. Price contingencies
were calculated on the following basis: local costs at 10% per annum for
1986-88 and 7.0Z for 1989/90; foreign exchange costs at the rate of 7% for
1986/87, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989 and 7.6% for 1990. Since PPF
effectiveness was delayed, items financed by the PPF will be purchased
towards the beginning of 1986. Costs are expressed as of end 1985 prices.
Physical contingencies of 15% were included for contracts to be signed
between MINAGRI and Banques Populaires, COOPIBO and ILO, respectively
(paras. 3.19 to 3.21), and 10% for civil works, all equipment and operating
costs. No provision for physical contingencies was included for staff
salaries for which exact numbers are known. Project costs are summarized
in Table 4.1 (detailed cost tables are in Annex 3).
Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
4.02      Total costs of this component are estimated at about RF 1,595.23
million (US $15.48 million), of which about 45% or about US $6.96 million
represent foreign exchange costs.
MINAGRI Institutional Development Component
4.03      Total costs of this component are estimated at about RF 742.0
million (US $7.21 million), of which about 61% or about US $4.4 million
represent foreign exchange costs.



- 34 -
Table 4.1: Tbtal Prodect COsts
I    Zof
Forelgm Bbse
local Forel4  Total local Foreig Total Ebwbe Costs
L GfhRAvA AgridtUral. PrOdUCticxi Cbmpooent
A. ExteD"sIr                               334    193  527 3.24   1.87 5.11   36         42
B. Adaptive researdh                        47     53  100  .46    .51  .97   53          8
C. Other agrial.urwal servic  /a           213     98  311 2.06    .95 3.01   31         25
D. IuwstmDt PromdtAl Of fioes               34     44   78  .33    .43  .76   56          6
E. Sbpport to Bques Pqzlaires                4      1    5  .04    .01  .05   20          1
F. Support to Coooperative asnd fazuBrs'
rpoups                               19       8   2   .18    .08  .26   30         2
G. Support to the artisual sector           12      18   30  .12    .17  .29   60         2
HL Tedhnical asilstance                      1     59   60    -    .58  .58   80          4
I. Nyabarougo VaUley Study                  25    100  125  .24    .97  1.21   8D        10
RPiH   costs                               689    37W 1,2U63 U   -5T5r  .N    V         100
Physical cDotbneencics                      36     48   84  .36    .46  .82   56          7
Yrioe rriEn-                               159     89  248 1.55    .87 2.42   36         20
Sub-total                                  884    711 1 8595 as8    6.90 15.48   47    127
IL   nRI Institut1rra Deveqxomint CamoneMt
A. Studes and plorrm g                      87    175  262  .86   1.69 2.55   65         43
B. YmXIt;XCiDg and eva11FtSOA               23     14   37  .22    .14  .36   38          6
C.           and aCIXICq                    39     68  107  .37    .66 1.03   64         18
D. CkzlCelSYSaCCtim                         29     73  102  .28    .71  .99   72         17
L. Docxntatuon                              28     26   54  .27      .25  .52   48        9
F. Persxml _    g t                          5      2    7  .05    .02  .07   28          1
G. Flnancaal ame"t                         14     U    25  .13    .12  .25   46          4
H. Eiles/arcbives                            6      5   11  .06    .04  .10   40          2
lasele costs                               231    374  605 2.24   3.63 5.87   62    100
Physical cdyw2cles                          10     22   32  .10    .22  .32   69          6
Price cow'                                  48     57  105  .46    .56 1.02   54         17
Sub-total                                  289    453  742 2.80   4.41 7.21   61    123
IUL. Total project co-                         1I173  1,164 2,337 11.38  11.31 22.69   51
Ia veterinary and aniini pro&cudon services, plant interAl PrOdCctlIm, erOsion COntrol and
forestr.
B.  IYnmnin
4.04     FiEanc13 would be as foLlas:



- 35 -
Table 4.2: Financing Plan
RF       US$
million   mi]lion    Z
Government of Rwanda
Gitarama Agricultural Production component        458.30       4.45    21
MINAGRI Institutional Development component       147.17       1.43     6
Sub-total                                         605.47      5.88    27
IDA
Gitarama Agricultural Production component      1,050.60      10.20    47
MINAGRI Institutional Development component       256.50       2.50    12
Sub-total                                       1,307.10      12.70    59
UNDP (co-financing)
Technical assistance and studies                  310.03       3.01    14
Total (without taxes)                              2,222.60      21.59   100
Taxes                                                114.70       1.10     5
Total (with taxes)                                 2,337.30     22.69   105
The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 11.617 million (US $12.70) would be provided
to the Government of Rwanda according to standard terms and conditions.  Of
this amount, SDR 9.33 million (US $10.2 million) would be for the Gitarama
Agricultural Production component and SDR 2.287 million (US $2.50 million)
for NINAGRI Institutional Development component. The Government of Rwanda
would finance RF 605.47 million or 27Z of the funds required for the two
projects (excluding taxes).
Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
4.05      The proposed IDA financing would cover 69% of the costs of this
component (excluding taxes and duties). This would cover 70% of civil
works, 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for
vehicles and equipment, training, studies and for agricultural inputs that
will be sold by the project. All technical assistance costs would be
covered at 1OOZ by the IDA Credit. The Credit would finance operating
costs on a decreasing scale; 40Z of operating costs up to a maximum of
US $365,000 equivalent, then 20% up to a maximum of US $178,500
equivalent. The Government of Rwanda would finance 32% of total costs
excluding taxes.
4.06      Government financing amounts to RF 544.6 million (including taxes
and duties and in current prices). In order to maintain the existing
agricultural services in Gitarama, the Government is currently. spending



- 36 -
RF 102.0 million per year. If this level of expenditures remained
unchanged, the Government would have spent a minimum of RF 444 million in
Gitarama during the period 1986-90 in the without project situation (and in
current prices). Incremental Government funding for the component is
therefore RF 100.6 million, of which RF 35.4 million for incremental
operating costs and RF 65.2 million for investments over the five year
project period. The incremental cost of the component to the Government
would represent 1.5% of the total budget (operating and development) of
MINAGRI during the project period.
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Analysis
4.07      The cost of providing inputs to the extension agents (for
research and demonstration purposes) would not be recovered. The cost of
providing inputs to the farmers would be recovered with a premium of at
least 20% above costs in order to make possible handing over the supply of
these inputs to the private sector. The cost of other project investments
(extension services, promotion and MINAGRI Institutional Development
activities) would not be directly recovered from the beneficiaries since
there are not yet cost recovery mechanisms for these services. The
projected Government cash flow is presented in Annex 5.
4.08      Assuming the same level of incremental Government expenditure per
commune as in Gitarama and adding the debt service charge related to the
component during the 1986-90 period (RF 24.0 million), the incremental cost
to the Government of replicating the project throughout the country's 143
communes would be RF 1,048 million (US $10.17 million) for five years or RF
209.6 million (US $2.03 million) per year in current prices. This
increment of RP 209.6 million represents about 15% of MINAGRI's total 1985
budget. The calculation assumes that donors, including IDA, provide the
same proportion of finance for this replication as IDA would for the
Gitarama pilot, an assumption deemed reasonable in view of the strong past
support of donors to the sector. In deciding whether this increment in
HINAGRI outlays is acceptable, there are several factors to consider.
Firstly, HINAGRI's budget is expected to continue to expand in real terms
about as rapidly as real growth in Rwanda's GDP. This budget expansion
would cover nearly all of the increment proposed. Secondly, the project
concept constitutes a complete revamping of MINAGRI's field services in a
manner which seeks increased efficiency while minimizing costs.
Alternatives considered, such as continuing with the present IRD approach,
are considerably less efficient and more expensive. Previous and ongoing
IRD projects financed by IDA and/or other donors have shown project
expenses per commune which range from twice to ten times the amounts
proposed under the project, often with less services financed (e.g. RF 70
million for the BGM II Project or RF 40 million for the Lake Kivu Coffee
Project, as compared with aboat RF 10 million for the Gitarama component at
full development). Thirdly, Rwanda will continue to be successful in
obtaining donor assistance for good projects. If the present project
operates efficiently, Rwanda is likely to be able to find additional
foreign funds for its replication throughout the country, reducing the
budget impact further. Fourthly, additional cost recovery measures to



- 37 -
those already foreseen in the Gitarama project will have to be designed in
follow-up phases. The net result of all the above is a model which is
likely to be highly replicable throughout Rwanda and financially
sustainable. No model of agricultural services presently practiced in
Rwanda satisfied either criterion.
NINAGRI Institutional Development Component
4.09      IDA financing would cover 36X of the cost of the component
(excluding taxes and duties). UNDP has agreed to provide co-financing
(US $3.01 million) for technical assistance and training and its grant
would also include ths full cost of the study for the construction of a
building for MINAGRI Z/. The Government of Rwanda would finance 20Z of
total costs excluding taxes. The share of Government financing of project
expenditures amounts to RF 175.50 million (including taxes and duties).
Since the Government is already financing expenditures which are included
in the total costs (of an amount equal to RF 68.0 million over the project
period), the incremental cost of this component is RF 107.50 million or
1.6Z of the LEtal budget (operating and development) of MINAGRI during the
project period. This is sustainable at an expected real growth in
MINAGRI's budget equal to the growth of Rwanda's GDP (over 3.5Z per annum).
C. Procurement
4.10      Rwanda's procurement regulations will be shortly reviewed by an
IDA mission. Prior IDA review of project procurement procedures (draft
tender documents, bid evaluation, award and contract signature) would be
required for all civil works contracts estimated to cost over US $100,000
and for all equipment contracts estimated to cover over US $50,000. It is
estimated that about 70Z of the contracts' value would be subject to prior
review. The various civil works contracts will be small since they will be
awarded slowly as the project is implemented. They are unlikely to attract
an international contractor. For this reason, all IDA-financed civil works
(US $2.9 million) would be expected to be locally procured although
international contractors would not be excluded. Contracts for vehicles,
equipment and agricultural inputs (total cost US $3.19) estimated to cost
over US $100,000 would be procured through international competitive
bidding following the Bank's guidelines. All equipment contracts estimated
tc cost over US $50,000, but less than US $100,000, would be procured
through local competitive bidding. All equipment contracts estimated to
cost less than US $50,000 (an aggregate not to exceed US $0.6 million)
would be procured based on price quotations from at least three local
suppliers. All IDA-financed expatriate staff to be recruited would be
internationall, recruited following procedures acceptable to IDA. There is
2/ The assistance provided by UNDP would be covered under a separate
project document (Prodoc). IDA would be the executing agency for UNDP
for the provision of this assistance.



- 38 -
a total of 738 man-months of technical assistance included in the project.
This includes 125 man-months for the Nyabarongo Valley Study (para. 3.25),
293 man-months for the Gitsrama component (of which 178 man-months for the
direct contracts - see below) and 300 man-months for the MINAGRI
component. Auditors (estimated cost US $100,000) acceptable to IDA would
be recruited. Three direct contracts would be required for the Gitarama
Agricultural Production component. One of these contracts would be with
ILO (estimated cost US $400,000) to provide about 68 man-months of local as
well as foreign experts for training of artisans. Another contract would
be with IWACU/COOPIBO (estimated cost US $37n,000) to provide about 110
man-months of mostly local experts for training of the cooperatives. The
third contract would be with the Banques Populaires (estimated cost US
$55,000) on a lump sum basis to assist installation of a new Banques
Populaires branch office in Gitarama and to finance the salaries of two
Banques Populaires' loan officers and their transportation for a period of
two years. Training fellowships (estimated to cost US $1,700 million)
would be financed following procedures acceptable to IDA. Operating cost
(estimated cost US $6.86 million) expenditures other than salaries
exceeding US $1,000 would require price quotations from at least three
suppliers while expenditures costing less than US $1,000 could be made by
direct purchase from one supplier only. The preceeding would also apply to
ISAR's component (total cost estimated at US $360,000), of which IDA would
finance US $220,000. Studies to be financed under the project amount to
US $2.0 million (including US $1.3 million for the Nyabarongo Valley Study
and $.25 million for the office building study). They would be carried out
by firms selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
4.11      MINAGRI would prepare yearly budgets and programs for each
component (Chapter V). Such programs would include detailed procurement
proposals for each year. IDA would review such programs and would ensure
that items be grouped to the extent possible to encourage bulk procurement
in order to promote competitive bidding. Whenever international
competitive bidding procedures are used, domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15% or the
existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the CIF price of
competing foreign suppliers.
4.12      Procurement procedures are summarized in Table 4.3 for the
Gitarama Agricultural Production component and in Table 4.4 for MINAGRI
Institutional Development component:



- 39 -
Table 4.3: Procuremenc Procedures /a
Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
Disbursement                                                     T. A.   Total
Category                          ICB   LCB  Other  N. A. Guidelines  Cost
US S million
I. Civil works                         2.74                             2.74
(1.87)                           (1.87)
II. Vehicles and equipment /b    .79   .90    .59 /c                      2.28.
(.70) (.84)  (.53)T7-                 (2.07)
III. Technical assistance                                 .80 /d 2.13 le  2.93
(.80)  (2.13)   (2.93)
IV. Training and studies                        2.20                      2.20
(2.09)                   (2.09)
V. Agricultural inputs                   .10                              .10
(.09)                            (.09)
VI. Operating costs                             4.71 /f                   4.71
(.63)-                   (.63)
VII. Refunding PPF                                        .52               .52
(.52)             (.52)
Total costs                    .79  3.74   7.50   1.32    2.13    15.48
(Total IDA)                   (.70)(2.80) (3.25) (1.32)  (2.13)  (10.20)
/a  Including physical and price contingencies.
7-b Used by extension services for demonstration purposes.
7i\ Of which US $0.03 million for ISAR.
/d  Conventions - direct contracting.
7e' Of which US $0.16 million for ISAR.
If  Of which US $0.03 million for ISAR.
Table 4.4: Procurement Procedures /a
MINAGRI Institutional Development Component
Disbursement                                                    T. A.   Total
Category                         ICB   LCB  Other  N. A. Guidelines  Cost
-       - US $ million
I. Vehicles and equipment        .45   .27    .14                      0.86
(.44) (.26)  (.13)                    (0.83)
II. Technical assistance                                      2.51 /b   2.51
and studies                                          (2.51)    (2.51)
III. Training                                   1.42                      1.42
(1.39)                   (1.39)
IV. Operating costs                            1.95                      1.95
(.32) /c                 (.32)
V. PPF                                                .46                .46
(.46)             (.46)
Total costs                   .45   .27   3.51    .46   2.51        7.20
(Total IDA & co-financier)  (.44) (.26) (1.78)  (.46) (2.51)    (5.51)
/a  Including physical and price contingencies.
79; Includes US $100,000 for audits of the two components.
/c  Excludes any financing of higher level staff salaries.



- 40 -
D. Disbursements
4.13      All disbursement requests would be fully documented with the
exception of statements of expenditure (SOEs). All project-related
disbursement applicaticas (with the exception after two years of those
relating to ISAR's component) would be signed jointly by MINAGRI's
Secretary General and the person responsible for the financial management
of each component, or in the absence of either one of them, by the other
one and the 'fonctionnaire dirigeant' of the component concerned. All
withdrawal applications related to ISAR's component would be signed by
ISAR's General Manager after an initial period of two years. The typical
disbursement profile for Rwanda is eight years. Given the fact that
procurement and disbursements would be closely followed by a technical
assistant, a six year disbursement profile is considered reasonable for
both projects. The proceeds of the IDA Credit for the Gitarama
Agricultural Production component are in Table 4.7 and for MINAGRI
Institutional Development component in Table 4.8. The disbursement
schedules for the two components are shown in Annex 4.
Statements of Expenditure
4.14      In order to limit the flow of documentation between the Borrower
and IDA and to decrease time spent on the review of documents, certain
disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure. The
supporting documentation for such disbursements would be kept by MINAGRI
and would be reviewed by the auditors (para. 4.20). In addition, this
documentation should be readily available for review by IDA representatives
during the course of project supervision. Assurances on these procedures
were obtained at negotiations.  MINAGRI would be able to claim
reimbursement on the basis of statements of expenditure for:
(a) civil works contracts costing less than US $50,000
equivalent;
(b) vehicles, equipment, goods, training and operating cost for
single items or contracts costing less than US $15,000
equivalent; and
(c) consulting services contracts costing less than US $50,000
equivalent.
Special Account
4.15      In order to ensure that funds for the project would be made
available when needed and to reduce the number of small withdrawal
applications to be processed, a special account would be established in US
dollars at the National Bank of Rwanda or at a commercial bank. Upon
Credit effectiveness, IDA would deposit an amount of US $0.6 million in the
special account for the Gitarama Agricultural Production component and US
$0.4 million for the MINAGRI Institutional Development component. These



- 41 -
amounts correspond to about three months of expenditures for each
component. All checks written on this account should be jointly signed by
MINAGRI's Secretary General and by the technical assistant responsible for
the financial management of the project, or in the absence of either one of
them, by the technical fonctionnaire dirigeant of the component concerned.
MINAGRI will group claims for reimbursement and submit withdrawal
applications of not less than US $20,000. The special account will be used
to pay: (a) foreign currency expenditures including salaries of expatriate
staff; and (b) local expenditures for investment costs or operating costs.
Transactions for all expenditures will be effected using the exchange rate
of the day.
Government Counterpart Funds
4.16      In order to ensure that Government counterpart funds would be
made available when needed, the Government would establish two bank
accounts within the National Bank of Rwanda. The Government would at the
beginning of each quarter deposit in these accounts its share of project
costs. The initial amounts to be deposited by the Government would be
RF 15 million for the Gitarama Agricultural Production component and RF 5
million for MINAGRI Institutional Development component. These amounts
correspond to approximately three months of expenditures for each project.
Establishment of these accounts and depositing the above initial amounts
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. All checks written on these
accounts should be jointly signed by the MINAGRI's Secretary General and by
the technical assistant responsible for the financial management of the
project, or in case of their absence, by the technical fonctionnaire
dirigeant of the component concerned and by the Rwandese counterpart of the
technical assistant, respectively.
Table 4.5: Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Credit Amount  X of Expenditures
Category                            US $        to be Financed
I. Civil works                   1,700,000  70%
II. Vehicles and equipment        1,700,000  100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
III. Technical assistance          2,900,000  100% of all expenditures
IV. Training and studies            580,000  100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
V. Agricultural inputs              88,000  1OO% of foreign expenditures
and 90Z of local expenditures
VI. Operating cost                  543,500  40% of all expenditures up to
a maximum of US $365,000
equivalent, then 20% of all
expenditures up to a maximum
of US $178,500



- 42 -
Credit Amount  Z of Expenditures
Category                            US $        to be Financed
VII. ISAR:
C8)Technical assistance        160,000  100% of all expenditures
(b) Y-uipment                  30,000  100X of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
(c) Operating costs            30,000  40% of all expenditures up
excluding salaries               to a maximum of US $26,000
equivalent, then 20% up to a
maximum of US $4,000 equiv.
VIII. Nyabarongo Valley Study      1,300,000  100% of all expenditures
IX. Refunding of PPF               520,000
X. Unallocated                    648,500
Total                       10,200,000
Table 4.6: MINAGRI Institutional Development Component
Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Credit Amount % of Expenditures
Category                             US $        to be Financed
I. Vehicles and equipment          711,200  100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
II. Technical assistance & audit   308,400  100% of all expenditures
III. Training                        816,100  100% of foreign expenditures
and 90Z of local expenditures
IV. Refunding of PPF                460,000
V. Unallocated                     204,300
Total                              2,500,000
E. Financial Management
4.17      Given the serious shortage of qualified accountants in Rwanda, an
accounting and financial management expert has already been appointed. Two
Rwandese chief accountants (AO) would also be recruited, one in Gitarama to
be responsible for the accounting functions of the Gitarama Agricultural
Production component and one in Kigali to be responsible for the accounting
functions of MINhGRI Institutional Development component. The tasks of the
technical assistant would consist of:
(a) installing the standardized project accounting system and
related internal controls for the two components and
preparing accounting and procedural manuals;
(b) training the two Rwandese chief accountants;



- 43 -
(c) finalizing tender documents, preparing bid evaluation
reports in association with the "fonctionnaire dirigeant" of
the component concerned, preparing disbursement applications
and handling all procurement/disbursement correspondence
with IDA with the exception of ISAR's component;
(d) being jointly responsible with NINAGRI's Secretary General
for signature of the statements of expenditures and of the
checks on the special account for the Gitarama and MINAGRI
components until such time as MINAGRI's chief accountant is
considered able to assume full responsibility; and
(e) preparing a review of the feasibility of installing an
accrual accounting system for all MINAGRI's services.
Recruitment of the two Rwandese accountants would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
Accounting for Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
4.18      Day to day accounting activities of the extension services and of
the Investment Promotion Office would be the responsibility of the Rwandese
chief accountant located in Gitarama.  Two bank accounts would be opened in
Gitarama: one for the extension services and the other for the Investment
Promotion Office. These would receive funds from the Government's
counterpart fund account to guarantee a certain autonomy in the day to day
management of this component. The chief accountant would be assisted by
one accountant located within each sub-prefecture.
Accounting for MINAGRI Institutional Development Component
4.19      The Rwandese chief accountant would be responsible for utilizing
the accounting system to be installed by the accounting and financial
management expert. He would be assisted in his task by a bookkeeper. He
would be trained by the expert whom he should be in a position to replace
as soon as possible.
Auditing
4.20      Project accounts, SOEs and the special account would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Assurances on these conditions were obtained at negotiations. Detailed
terms of reference for the auditors would be submitted for IDA's approval
by March 31, 1987.
F. Environmental Impact
4.21      Investments and activities under the Gitarama Agricultural
Production component would have a positive impact through: (a) extension



- 44 -
activities aiming at improving agricultural techniques; (b) planting of
anti-erosive lines of grass and bushes and development of other
anti-erosion techniques; (c) re-afforestation and agro-forestry and
rationalization of forest managemeuc; and (d) increased and appropriate use
of manure and compost and chemical fertilizers to stop soil fertility
decline and permit agricultural intensification. The use of a limited
quantity of fertilizers and pesticides is not expected to have any adverse
environmental impact.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGWEMENT
A. Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
5.01      Overall responsibility for project implementation would be held
by the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry, and within the
ministry by the Secretary General. The various technical departments of
the ministry would be responsible for supervising the technical aspects of
project agricultural service activities. The appointed 'fonctionnaire
dirigeant for the component would be fully responsible for management of
the Gitarama Agricultural Production component, both technically and
administratively. There would be no separate project implementation unit,
but rather a distribution of responsibilities to persons in charge of each
functional unit according to the proposed MINAGRI's organizational
structure (Charts I and 3). This organizational structure would be used to
manage agricultural services through the country as the project is
replicated. At the prefecture level, the overall manager of the various
MINAGRI servic !s would be the prefectoral agriculture officer.
5.02      Coordination mechanisms would be introduced at all le-Jels of the
proposed organizational structure to insure participation of and support
from local authorities and existing private and public institutions. At
the sector level, the cellule committee chiefs and the couminal advisers
(both elected by the population) would actively participate in the
inventory and in the selection of farmers who would benefit from regular
extension visits (para. 3.07). They would also work closely with the
comminal agricultural technicians in the programming and execution of the
various comiminal agricultural activities (erosion control, national
campaigns, multiplication fields and tree nurseries), and in the
rationalization of labor force utilization in the framework of community
works (umuganda). They would be important sources of information
feedback. At the communal level, local authorities (the bourgmestre and
the members of the technical commission and the Communal Development
Council) would be associated with project implementation through periodic
meetings with all communal agricultural technicians to discuss future work
programs and implementation progress. Allocation of communal resources to
priority agricultural activities in accordance with annual work plans would
also be part of the agenda of these meetings as specified in the agreements
to be signed between MINAGRI and each of the communes. Local authorities



- 45 -
would assist to orient interventions of the Banques Populaires for
agricultural credit and of IWACU for support to cooperatives and farmers'
groups. They would occasionally benefit from specific training courses on
management, organization or accounting. At the sub-prefecture level,
agricultural staff would maintain close links with local authorities, both
informally through occasional visits to the sub-prefecture and the
bourgmestres and formally through monthly meetings to be held at the
sub-prefecture to discuss ongoing progress and issues. The sub-prefecture
agricultural officer (para. 3.07) would be a member of the Project
Management Committee (para. 5.03) and would also participate in monthly
meetings of the Investment Promotion Office (para. 5.04). Agricultural
staff at the sub-prefecture level would have frequent contacts with other
projects in the prefecture of Gitarama and elsewhere in Rwanda.  At the
prefectoral level, the Prefectoral Agricultural Coordinator, also a member
of the Management Committee, would ensure that work programs of the various
units are prepared and coherent. He would assure a regular flow of
information to all units, to MINAGRI's agricultural services and to other
projects. He would ensure that reporting is relevant, regular and on
time. The Prefectoral Coordinator has been recruited and recruitment of
the sub-prefecture agricultural officer would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
5.03      A Management Committee would be established in accordance with
Government laws and regulations. The committee would be an administrative,
inter-ministerial body with effective decision power over project
programming and budgeting activities. It would be headed by the
fonctionnaire dirigeant" of the component and would include
representatives from MINAGRI and the ministries responsible for finance,
economics and planning, and the prefecture and the sub-prefectures. The
committee would meet every three months to review progress and discuss
issues. A meeting of the committee would be held once a year in November
in which unit work plans for the next year would be reviewed and
established. Extraordinary meetings would occasionally be called by the
President of the committee.
5.04      Management of the Promotional Component.  The numerous activities
to be carried out under the promotion component and the strong linkages
between most of these activities make it necessary to provide for a
coordinating mechanism. Quarterly meetings of a Programming and Monitoring
Steering Committee of the Investment Promotion Office (para. 3.18) would be
organized under the chairmanship of the Prefecture Coordinator in which all
implementing institutions would participate as well as the agricultural
officers managing the sub-prefectoral operations. Recruitment of the
Promotion Coordinator would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.05      Annual Work Plan.  Implementation of all activities under this
component would be carried out on the basis of annual plans and budgets
approved by the Secretary General and IDA. These would be prepared by
mid-September of each year under the responsibility of the "fonctionnaire
dirigeant-. Plans and budgets for the project's research activities would
be prepared with ISAR. The annual plan and budget would detail project



- 46 -
objectives and targets for the year in question, specific activities to be
carried out, and the human and financial resources including consultant and
training needs for carrying out the proposed work program. Assurances on
these arrangements, including timing of preparation and approval were
obtained at negotiations.
5.06      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation of
extension and other agricultural services would aim to provide project
management with current information on the effectiveness of the activities
carriee out and the impact on production, farm revenues and public
finani:b. The monitoring and evaluation system would use the reporting and
feedback system that is built into the new extension and agriculture
seLvices structure. As part of this system, a monitoring manual would be
developed during the project's first year. Log books would be maintained
by staff at all levels in which they would record data concerning farmer
constraints, responses to recommendations, availability of technical
services and of inputs. These data would be summarized in progress
reports, discussed during periodic meetings and displayed in graphs and
maps in the managers' offices.
5.07      The evaluation function would distinguish between the medium (the
delivery system), the message (recommendations extended to farmers) and the
results (immediate or long term consequences of the adoption of
recommendations by farmers), which together constitute the overall
program. Immediate consequences would be the level to which message
related services or inputs are used. Medium to long term consequences
would be production increases or changes affecting the farming systems
benefiting from project activities.
5.08      The main source of information on the various kinds of monitoring
activities and on adoption rates would be from progress reports of the
extension and services organization in-line management. Preliminary
surveys would be executed, as was done during project preparation for the
first sub-prefecture, in order to assess the without project situation.
This would serve as the database to which subsequent survey results in the
same area would be compared to evaluate changes affecting farm structure
and production. These surveys would be conducted in each sub-prefecture
once every other year by specially appointed enumerators managed by
consultants in close coordination with MINAGRI's DCE and the service of
agricultural statistics. This MINAGRI department would coordinate and
collate the data generated by these surveys and insure that they are
consistent with data produced by the National Agricultural Survey (SNEA).
This would allow for an eventual comparison to be made at the national
level between production levels for farmers using traditional methods and
for those using improved practices. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that an evaluation and review of project activities would be
carried out in the first sub-prEfecture at the end of the first two years.



- 47 -
B. MINAGRI Institutlonal Development Component
5.09      The proposed institutional development program would be carried
out and managed by persons within the organizational structure of the
Secr'tariat-General (Chart 3). There would be no separate component
implementation unit. The Secretary General of MINAGRI would have overall
responsibility for management of this component. However, the day to day
coordination and administration of component activities would be delegated
to MIMAGRI's Director of DEP as "fonctionnaire dirigeaut of the
component. The Director of DEP would 5ea that component activities are
being efficiently carried out and that all issues are promptly signalled to
the Secretary General for resolution. He would coordinate the preparation
and subsequent monitoring of the Annual Work Plan for component activities
and the preparation of periodic reports on implementation as required by
the ministry. Continuity in management is considered critical to the
success of the ambitious institutional development program proposed.
5.10      Training and Consultation.  Centralization and organization of
training and consultancies would be the responsibility of an agro-economist
to be recruited internationally for DEP. He would remain in post for at
least the first three years of the project and/or until one of the
agricultural economists trained overseas under the project can assume this
function. All proposed uses of the funds for training, short term
consultancies and local seminars would be fully described and submitted to
the coordinator with a detailed budget and terms of reference for all
consultancies. The Minister will approve all uses of the funds.
5.11      Staff Training.  The organization of local staff training
seminars and identification of overseas training courses would be the
responsibility of the technical assistance team (recruited internationally
under the project or financed under parallel bilateral arraingements)
working together with the heads of all units of the Secretariat-General of
MINAGRI. Under the coordination of the DEP Director, a review of ongoing
or completed training and new training proposals would be carried out in
the context of the Annual Work Plan preparation and discussion (para.
5.15).
5.12      Staffing Requirements.  Total higher level staffing requirements
and additional staff to be appointed are given in Annex 2, along with a
schedule of appointment and training of the incremental staff. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that key component staff would have
qualifications sufficient to manage the institution building activities of
their operating units. An economist and an agro-economist have already
been appointed in order to ensure timely project start-up activities in
1986.
5.13      Technical Assistance Requirements.  Total estimated technical
assistance requirements related to project institution building activities
include longer term technical assistance and short term specialists whose
interventions would be scheduled on a periodic basis. Three of the



- 48 -
technical assistance posts (an agriculturalist in DEP, a monitoring and
evaluation specialist in DCE and an accounting expert in the Management and
Accounting Unit in DCE) are currently filled by persons who have been in
position for several years, financed under bilateral aid agreements or
IDA-financed projects. These three positions would continue to be financed
under their existing financing arrangements for a period of one to two
years, depending on the positions. Additional new positions include the
following: (a) for the Department of Studies and Planning, an
agro-economist (60 mm) to be financed under the project, a livestock
specialist (24 mm), and an agro-industry specialist (24 mm) to be financed
under separate bilateral aid agreements; (b) for the Department of Control
and Evaluation, a monitoring and evaluation specialist (60 mm) to be
financed under separate bilateral aid agreements, an accounting expert (60
mm) and a computer analyst/programmer (60 mm) to be financed under the
project; (c) for the Bureau of Documentation and Information, the periodic
assistance (20 mm) of documentary specialists to be financed under the
project; (d) for the Bureau of Correspondence and Archives, the short term
assistance (5 mm) of an archival/administration specialist to be financed
under the project; (e) for the Bureau of Personnel Management, the short
term assistance (3 mm) of a personnel management specialist to be financed
under the project; and (f) a financial management expert (60 mm)
responsible for project accounting for the Gitarama component and for the
establishment of the accounting system for the HINAGRI component, to be
financed under the project. Detailed terms of reference for these
specialists have been prepared. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the technical experts recruited under the project and their terms of
contract would require IDA's approval. Eventual reductions in the
man-month requirements for technical assistance resulting from increased
availability of qualified local staff would be agreed between the
Government and IDA. The financial management specialist has already been
appointed. Regarding the technical assistance to be financed under
separate bilateral aid agreements, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that IDA representatives would be given an opportunity to comment on the
detailed terms of reference for the positions to be filled by those experts
before their recruitment.
5.14      MINAGRI's Organizational Review. At the end of year 2 of the
project, the ministry would carry out a comprehensive review of the
functional and structural organization of the Secretariat-General and the
technical departments. The principal objectives of this review will be to:
(a) examine the opportunity of institutionalizing the results of the new
extension and services organization to be tested in the Gitarama
prefecture; (b) analyse the respective roles of the technical services and
the Secretariat-General; (c) review the organization of financial
management functions of the ministry; and (d) determine future staffing and
training needs of MINAGRI at the central and field level. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that this review would take place and its results
would be discussed with IDA.
5.15      Project Reporting.  For each calendar year, staff of the
Secretariat-General would prepare an Annual Work Plan, describing proposed



- 49 -
activities and providing a detailed budget by departmental and by
operational unit. The Annual Work Plan would be prepared by mid-October of
each year, approved by the Minister, and it would be submitted to IDA for
review and approval. Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations.
Assurances were also obtained that the Secretariat-General would prepare
during each semester of the project's implementation period progress
reports containing the relevant information to be given to IDA.
5.16      Project Completion Report.  Assurances were obtained that MINAGRI
staff will prepare a project completion report for both NINAGRI Support and
Gitarama Production components by June 30, 1991. This would be discussed
by concerned ministries and submitted to IDA no later than six months after
project completion.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Justification and Benefits of the Gitarama Component
6.01      The Gitarama Agricultural Production component and MINAGRI
Institutional Development component would constitute the major instrument
used by the Government in implementing its new agricultural developient
strategy which was summarized in para. 1.09.  The pilot aspect of the
extension, agriculture services and promotion components would eventually
lead to their replication nation-wide. Benefits of the Gitarama
Agricultural Production component would be derived from increased
agricultural production. Some of this increase would be coffee, which is
exported. Increased production would generate additional revenues for the
rural population, mainly suallholder farmers, and improve nutrition in one
of the most populated areas of the country. Substantial quantities of the
incremental production would be marketed locally or inter-regionally. This
would induce development of the agriculture-related private and cooperative
marketing and processing sectors and of the artisanal sector. The project
would contribute significantly to institutional development. The project
would develop models for improved extension research linkage, seed
production, forestry and agro-forestry. One of the basic principles would
be to develop cost recovery mechanisms and encourage private sector and
local community participation. The project would therefore have a positive
impact on the effort to reduce Government intervention in the economy.
6.02      Benefits are quantified for the Gitarama prefecture.  Estimates
are necessarily tentative since the direct purpose of the project is not
solely to extend existing technical recommendations but to experiment and
develop an extension system based on applied research expected to design
and recommend technologies adapted to the various farm situations.
Estimates of production increases (and used in the economic analysis - see
below) are however based on actual research results, experience of other
.agricultural projects in Rwanda's preliminary results of farm surveys and
direct contacts with farmers during project preparation. It should be



- 50 -
emphasized that incremental production is expected to result from the use
of farm inputs only, but more from a progress transformation of the various
farming systems. Technical improvements leading to production increases
include a variety of factors, combined in varying proportions by type of
crops or activities: (a) improved seeds; (b) selectichemical treatment
against pests and diseases; (c) selective application of chemical and/or
natural fertilizer; and (d) modified cultivation practices - intercropping
for some crops (e.g. maize and beans) and single cropping for others (e.g.
sorghum and groundnuts). Incremental production and value for years 5 and
IU of the project in the Gitarama prefecture are presented in
Table 6.1.
Table 6:1: Gitarama Pr6fecture
Incremental Production
in Gitarama          Incremental Value
(tons)               (RF million)
Years 5        Year 10      Year 5    Year 10
Coffee                           65             200        15         47
Sweet potatoes                6,470           16,820       32         84
Bananas                       3,230           10,240       32        102
Cassava                       1,200           3,800        12         38
Beans                         1,490           4,250        37        107
Soybeans                         70             220         3          8
Sorghum                       2,290           7,030        46        141
Maize                           690           2,070         7         21
6.03      Producer Benefits.  It is estimated that about 50,000 farmers, mo
smallholders and virtually all in the poverty target group for Rwanda, woul
benefit from project activities. About 4,100 of these farmers would obtain
considerable direct benefit and support from project staff visiting their f
regularly. Others would benefit indirectly through better availability of
inputs, advice from neighbors, better access to credit and better marketing
opportunities. On the average, it is estimated that the more moderate yiel
increases expected from the project (Table 3.1) would affect by year 10
approximately 36X of the total area under cultivation in the prefecture.  A
that time, fertilizer applications would account for a 25X increase in annu
production.
6.04      Farm budgets have been established on the basis of data from a
survey of 150 farms in five communes. Six types of farms have been identif
according to farm size and presence/absence of livestock and fuelvood produ
on the farm, as summarized in Table 6.2:



- 51 -
Table 6.2: Farm Models
Presence of Percent of Total Number of Farms
Farm                                livestock  -         Project Year 10
type    Model Area                and fuelvood Present   w/o project  w/project
Very       I  Less than .4 ha            No        15           20          12
small  II                           Yes         10           15          23
Small    III  Between .4 and             No        10           15          10
IV     .7 ha                 Yes        20           20           25
Medium     V  Between .7 and 1.0 ha   Yes          15           15           15
Large     VI  More than 1.0 ha         Yes         30           15          15
100         100          100
These models have been analyzed under hypotheses of use or non-use of
fertilizer. Incremental value of production and incremental net cash
income (in constant 1985 prices) at year 10 of the project are presented in
Table 6.3. Results of the model analysis and technical assumptions are
presented in Annex 5. Details of illustrative models III and IV are also
presented in Annex 5.
Table 6.3: Gitarama Prefecture, Project Year 10
Incremental Net Value of
Production (RF)             Incremental Net Cash Income (RF)
Model w/fertilizer   w/o fertilizer   w/fertilizer          w/o fertilizer
I        6,671            5,777            1,403                2,024
II        7,941            7,047            1X220                1,674
III       14,343           11,537            2,232                2,924
IV       16,702           13,918            3,066                3,211
V       19,071           14,616            4,300                5,541
VI       23,270           17,579           10,077                9,994
6.05      The annual increase of the gross value of production is therefore
expected to be in the range of 4.6% to 5.3% for medium and large farms and
3.2% for small farms. These figures are based only on the existing
technical packages. They point to the critical situation of very small
farmers and the potential of mid size farns, and to the uncertain impact of
fertilizer use on cash income for small farmers. This also underlines the
importance of the research and development component of the project which
should address in priority the problems of small and medium farms.
B. MINAGRI Institutional Development Component
6.06      MINAGRI Institutional Development component is a prerequisite to
improving the effectiveness of Government policies and interventions in the
agricultural sector. It would strengthen the Secretary General's office,



- 52 -
provide technical documentation and training. It would develop the systems,
procedures and competence necessary to improve agricultural sector planning and
management. In the medium to long term, the project would rationalize the
organization of MINAGRI's management and technical services at the central and
field levels, sharpen the technical skills of   ministry staff and improve the
design, management and cost-effectiveness of agricultural services.
C. Economic Analysis
6.07      The economic analysis has been done for production-related
activities only, i.e. for part of the Gitarama Agricultural Production
component, as it is difficult to quantify precisely benefits derived from
other project activities. In particular, no economic analysis has been
done for the MINAGRI Institutional Development component. The internal
rate of return measuring the net incremental benefit of the directly
productive incremental costs would be about 272 and net present value at a
10% discount rate would be about US $11 million. The economic rate of
return is not seen as the main justification of the project whose direct
objective is to experiment with a new extension system to be replicated
nation-wide.
5.08      The economic rate of return has been calculated over a 20 year
period. Project benefits are expected mainly from beans, bananas, sweet
potatoes, sorghum, coffee, cassava, maize and soybeans. Incremental
production has been estimated under the assumption of a farm adoption rate
of about 45% equivalent to about 36% of the total area under cultivation.
The economic analysis includes three types of costs: (a) all incremental
investments and operating costs from years I to 5 and recurrent costs for
year 6 to 20 (without taxes, foreign expenses shadow priced by 15%); (b)
costs of inputs (market price net of taxes and subsidy); and (c)
incremental farm labor costs (shadow priced by 50 of market price). All
costs are 1985 and include physical contingencies. The marketed
incremental production of each crop attributable to the project would be a
small percentage of the total annual production of the country and would
therefore not be expected to have a significant impact on price levels.
6.09      A key issue of project viability will be the adoption rate of
existing and future technical recommendations to be developed by the
research and development activities. This adoption rate will depend not
only on the efficiency of the extension system but also on the rate of
development of marketing outlets. To take into account the uncertainty of
market evolution, the switching value of farm adoption rate has been
computed. In order to obtain a 10% rate of return, the farm adoption rate
should be around 201 (equivalent to 16% of the total areas under
cultivation), which is slightly less than half the adoption rate assumed in
the design of the project. The probability of such a low adoption rate
occurring is estimated to be low.



- 53 -
6.10      Further sensitivity analysis was conducted.  For instance, an
increase in costs of 20% combined to a decrease in benefit of 20% would
result in an ERR of 112. The ERR was also tested for its sensitivity to
changes in fertilizer use. Without fertilizer, the ERR would fall to 23Z.
On average, the project should result in a satisfactory rate of return
unless extreme cost increases and low adoption rates are experienced. The
analysis shows however that the rate of return is somewhat more sensitive
to the quantities of inputs used since these constitute one of the major
improvements which would be introduced in the project area.
D. Risks
6.11      The Gitarama Agricultural Production component involves the
restructuring of MINAGRI's field activities. Such changes will take some
time to be fully accepted. While a great deal of commitment has been
generated in MINAGRI among staff who participated in the project
preparation exercise, there is a clear risk that the initial momentum may
diminish and the ptinciples of reorganization may not be fully transmitted
to field level staff and thus not fully adopted. Beca-use this risk was
identified early in the preparation process, measures were taken during
preparation to involve as many Rwandese as possible it preparation. Much
Of the preparation effort was one of convincing people who would be
involved as to the necessity of the organization and management changes
proposed. Such preparatory groundwork must now yield to project action in
order to keep up this momentum.
6.12      A second risk relates to budget allocations both from MINAGRI and
other institutions, in particular from the commanes. It is essential to
maintain adequate staff and to maintain their mobility. This will require
adequate funding. Several measures have been foreseen to assure adequate
funding (advance payments to special account, revolving funds and cost
recovery where presently possible). Project costs have also been minimized
so as to constitute as little a financial burden on Government as
possible. Mobility of staff would be ensured by the establishment of a
revolving fund and a credit system for the renewal of motorcycles and
bicycles. Agreements would be obtained with the comnmnes for their
participating in the cost of some agricultural operations.
6.13      A third risk concerns the generation of adequate research
findings on which to base extension recommendation. Initially,
availability of suitable technology for different crop and livestock
systems would not be a constraint. There are at present a large number of
themes responding to farmer constraints and a clear potential for improving
local agricultural activities. These would serve the extension effort
during the first phase of the project. Significant yield increases can be
achieved even without the introduction of new technology by providing basic
inputs to most farmers and by having the poorer farmers use some of the
techniques practiced by the better off farmers. To reduce the risk of
running out of improved technical recommendations, the project would



- 54 -
support programs of field testing of research results and increased
coordination between extension and research to ensure a continuous flow of
recomuendations adapted to specific regional farmer problems.  In the
medium to long term, this risk will be less acute as the Agricultural
Research Project begins to produce results.
6.14      A fourth risk will be the development of the demand for food
crops. Rwanda farmers tend to adapt their level of production to meet
consumption needs and expected marketing prospects. As in the case of
other ongoing agricultural projects in Rwanda, the growth of demand for
food crops will depend on the development of the small urban centers. The
macro-economic environment of the project will be determiniant to project
success and replicability.
6.15      MINAGRI Institutional Development component would reinforce the
systems, procedures and staffing capabilities in five key sector management
areas of MINAGRI. Due to the scarcity of skilled Rwandese staff in these
fields, the long term success of the organization proposed would depend on
the number of technical assistance specialists which would be provided
partly under the project and partly by bilateral assistance. Project
success would then depend to a significant degree on the willingness of
other aid agencies to support these efforts during the initial project
years. Secondly, the project would require an ambitious staffing,
selection and training program to staff MINAGRI with qualified personnel.
Timely identification, appointment and training of staff would be
critical. The first risk has been minimized by frequent consultation with
other donors. These other donors have committed themselves already to
providing the required technical assistance. Thirdly, by requesting IDA to
finance this component, the Government has committed itself to adequately
staffing MINAGRI.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      The following agreements have been reached during negotiations:
(a) MINAGRI would enter into a contract with each commine by
March 31, 1986, which will define the terms and conditions
of the contribution of the communes to the agricultural
sector (para. 3.09).
(b) Credit provided to extension staff for the purchase of
mopeds, motorcycles and bicyles would be deducted from
monthly salary checks and deposited into a revolving fund to
be managed by the MINAGRI financial departments and used to
purchase new vehicles as required (para. 3.14).
(c) Housing would be made available to higher level staff
against payment of rental fees sufficient to cover
maintenance costs of the buildings (not less than 2% of



- 55 -
investment costs). Rental fees would be collected and
managed by the Prefecture Coordinator and used to maintain
buildings (para. 3.16).
(d) MINAGRI would enter Into arrangements with OCIR-Cafe, the
Banques Populaires, IWACU and ILO, defining the respect 've
roles of these institutions in carrying out their
responsibilities in the project (paras. 3.07 and 3.19 to
3.21).
(e) Annual work programs and budgets for the Gitarana
Agricultural Production component and MINAGRI Institutional
Development component would require approval by IDA (paras.
5.05 and 5.15).
(f) Project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. Accounts would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Detailed terms of reference for the auditors would be
submitted for IDA's approval by March 31, 1987 (pars. 4.20).
(g) An evaluation and review of the Gitarams Agricultural
Production component activities would be undertaken in the
first sub-prefecture at the end of the first two years of
implementation (paras. 3.10 and 5.08); upon formal agreement
between IDA and the Government on the outcome of this
review, coverage of the entire prefecture would be completed
by December 31, 1988.
(h) Key staff for MINAGRI Support component, Including heads of
departments and staff working directly for the Secretary
General would have qualifications sufficient to manage the
institution building activities of their operating units and
would have to be acceptable to IDA (pars. 5.12).
Xi) The technical experts recruited and financed under MINAGRI
component and their contracts would have to be acceptable to
IDA. Reductions in man-month requirements for technical
assistance would require IDA's approval. IDA
representatives would be given an opportunity to comment on
the terms of reference, qualifications and experience of
proposed candidates before their recruitment and on the
terms of reference of technical assistants provided by other
donors (para. 5.13).
(j)  MINAGRI organizational review would take place before the
end of 1987 and the results discussed with IDA (para. 5.14).
(k) The Secretary General's Office would prepare during each
semester of the project inplementation period progress
reports with copies to be sent to IDA and other external aid



- 56 -
agencies involved in NINAGRI institutional building
activities (para. 5.15).
(1) MINAGRI staff would prepare a project completion report by
June 30, 1991 (pars. 5.16).
7.02      The following would be conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a) Establishment of two accounts in the National Bank of Rwanda
into which Government would deposit RF 15 million for the
Gitarama component and RF 5 million for MINAGRI Support
component (para. 4.16).
(b) Recruitment of qualified Rwandese accounting staff
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.17); and recruitment of the
sub-prefecture agricultural officer (para. 5.02) and
Promotion Coordinator (para. 5.04).
(c) Presentation to IDA of a satisfactory formal contractual
arrangement between ISAR and MINAGRI defining the role of
each in adaptive research during year 1 of the project
(para. 3.06).
7.03      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Credit on standard terms of SDR 11.617
million equivalent to the Government of Rwanda.



-  57  -
Annex I
RVAM
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PROD'UCTION COMONENT
Implementatlon Schbled
Before
Activitles:                                 project    1986     1987     1988     1989      1990
1. Key Dates                               - TT          I     Tr 1T   -TF   1r -   T       F
Negotiations                                  X
If fectivenesm                                      I
Subnidsion annual work                           X                       X        X
Structural plan  revlew                                       X
Completion                                                                                  X
Cloning 
2. Project Staffing
Management (fonctionnalre                   ____
dirigeant and Prefecture
Ag4icalturel Coordinator)
lot Operational Unit                                -
2nd. 3rd *nd 4th Operational Units                            ---
Promotion Office management
Expatriate consultents
3. Civil Works
lst Operational Unlt
2nd, 3rd and 4th Operatlonal Unlts
lavestment Promotion Office
Banques Poplulaires Branch
Seed Multipllcatlon Center
4. Operatlons lot Operational Unit
Preparstlon of extension menages      I__
Research activities                                          -
Extension activities
Agricultural services
Comnmnal forestry planes                                      -  --
Anlmal health services
Seed mltiplietlon-
Training                                      _ _ _  _
Monitorlg and evaluation
Preparation Work Plane                       _         _         _
5. Operation -Other Operationa Units                           __-
6. Operations - Investment Promotion
Office
Agricultural credit                               _          -
Support to cooperatives and               _       __
farmrs' groups
Support to artisans 
Documentation and survey 
Preparation work plane s _
Preparation contracts                         _  _
7. Preparation Extension to
Other Regions



- 58 -
Annex 2
Table 1
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PhLODUCTION
AND MINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Recruitment of MINAGRI Institutional Development Project Staff
Local Staff
Cadres Rwsndals Addltionnels
L985      1986       1987       1988       1989      1990
1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4
Direction Etudes et Planificatlon
1 A( V4tlrinaire/zootechnicion 
1 AO Economiste (planificateur)              .
1 Ao Agronore (agro-6conoiste)              *       __ __                __
I AO Agronone (agro-econoniste)                      *   _ _ _ _       _
Direccion:  Contrale at
Evaluation
Suivi. eat valuation:
1 AO Agronome (gestion des
projets                             *
1 AZ Statidticien (staticien-
lnfors tique)                       *_    
I Ao Econouist- (agro-
1    ooslate  et sttist.*___
Gestion at comptabilit6:
1 *A  Comptable                          *            __ _
I A2 Cooptable                                    *
1 A2 Coaptable                                                        _ _ -
Assistance en Informatique:
1 A2 Statisticlen                        *  - - - - - -
1 A2 Statiuticien                        *
Bureau: Documentation ec
Information
1 A2 Alde-docwuentaliste
(docmentaliste)                        *         _ _
5 A3 Aide-docmentalistes                                     *
5 A3 Aide-docum.ncali.tes                                               *
3.resu: Gestion des Credits
1 Ao Chef couptable                         *
*    Date do recrucement
- Piriode de formation A 1' tranger
TravaiL au MINAGRI



- 59  -                ~~~Anuex, 2
Table 2
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
AND MINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Recruitment of MINAGRI Institutional Development Project Staff
Expatriate Staff
Aaalutant Tec!Eiqw
1985
1FF    1966    197      198      1989    1990  Tbtal WH   Sth e de
1234   1234   1234   1234   1234   1234  (16-1990)fEinuaixmi
Dhzat!a: ED et
PJmlf lcatikn
I 1kgnew qgm   (edAnt)                        -.-       _       _       _       _         Kai aid
I 1  *   0 
I sowUtI  &ueme                                         - - - - - - - -     _      24.    kWLa aid
I so           - .1                *q fg4i 2ralat - -          --l - -              6              aid
D1zectlnn:  tmmrBe et  dt
SdviL at BvuImztlon:
1  kiclSA1    en advi et
'.is1wim  (.d.ucsnt)                   _-- _ _ _                              2      EAC - uM ii
I sod-", te ea mdvi et
balzmtioo                                                                     G 60-   FAC
amlnM amtemU:
I  qas en at aimptabiLitS                  - -----                               MI   MP- Qm 1I
1fcrt an az.talt                _                                                60     UNDP
Am1astazm em lnfomt1lq:
I aDptt ent lnfoaalq
asum ln       tin et
A4p pxnal d'exerts
mcp  Domumtalsteu                        4       4        4      4       4        2D     Ptoett
Dhwa      G azdr  et Artbv
mrt ke Addv.svIa/An1srtct1S              2       2        1                       5      FmJmct
hm: Gmscmz dLi Pftwul
pd  -
bat en Gestlon du Femmuoial             1        1        1                       3      Pzojet
*       Date de recrutement
Possibilite d'extension
Duree de contrat



Annex 2
- 60 -                   Table  3
Page   1
RWANDA
GITARAM4A AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
AND MINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINAGRI Secr6tariat-G6nfral
Project Staffing Requirements
Full
Existing Incremental Staff Recruitment staffing
in 1985     1986     1987     1988    capacity
Secrftariat-Gen&ral Units:
Department of Studies
and Planning (DEP)
AO Director DEP (Agriculturalist)      1                                       1
AO Agriculturalist                     1                                       1
AO Veterinary/Zootechnician            0          1                            1
AO Agro-economist                      0                    1                  1
AD Economist                           0          1                            1
Sub-total DEP                          2          2        1                   5
Department of Control and
Evaluation (DCE)
AO Director DCE                        I                                       I
For Project/Service Monitoring
and Control:
AD Agriculturalist                     1                             1         1
AO Agro-economist                      0          1                            1
AD Economist-statistician              0                                       1
A2 Statistician-computer
specialist                          1                                       1
For Project Accounting and
Financial Management:
AO Accountant                          0          1                            1
AO Chief Accountant                    1                                       1
A2 Assistant Accountants               2          2                            4
For Computerization Assistance:
A1/A2 Computer Specialist              0          1        1         0         2
Sub-total DCE                          6          5        1        1         13



- 61 -                           Annex  2
TAble  3
Page   2
Full
Existlng Incremental Staff Recruitment staffing
in 1985     1986     1987      1988    capacity
Bureau for Documentation and
Information (BDI)
AO Bureau Chief                        1                                       1
A2 Head Documentation Center           1                                       1
A2 Documentalist                       1          1                            2
A3 Assistant Documentalist             0          1                            1
A2 Information Officers                1                                       1
A3 Assistant Information Officers      0          1                            1
A3 Assistant Documentalist
for Prefectures                     0                            10        10
Sub-total BDI                          4          3        0        10        17
Bureau for Correspondence and
Archives (BCA)
Al Bureau Chief                        1                                       1
A2 Archivist                           1                                       1
A3 Assistant Archivist                 0          1                            1
Sub-total BCA                          2          1        0         0         3
Bureau for Budget Management (BGC)
AO Chief Accountant                    0          1                            1
Al Budget Manager                      1                                       1
A2 Assistant Accountants               1          1                            2
Sub-total BGC                          2          2        0        0          4
Bureau for Personnel Management (BGP)
Al Bureau Chief                        1                                       1
A2 Archivist                           0          1                            1
Sub-total BGP                          1          1        0         0         2
Total                                    17         14         2       11        44
This table details the minimum permanent higher level (AO to A3) staffing capacity
required to carry out the proposed institution building program and to sustain the
priority work of the Secrtariat-Giniral. Not all staff existing in 1985
possessneeded qualifications, and therefore this table only reflects existing staff
expected to remain in the structure.



- 62 -
Annex 3
Table 1
PE?T lICILE K *ITAU
SUNPAY IClUITS CIST S01
IFH 'M 1                     IUSS 'mn0001               z Tot
-1---      -----------------------                        Fo----ei------U---- -------  r hre1   n
Local   Foreign   Total       Local Foreign Total   EuchqB    Cota
1. INlTvuEItu   COSTS
________________
* ASSIST1CE TECNIIOJE          121.IU.I 12t1u. U   251.864L   1.1U4.* 1.260.8  2.445.1       52       30
IL EIIOHETES K USE             37. 00.0 MO5,400.0  143.000.0   3lO.0 1.023.3  1.31L.3        74       11
C. FOfTIU                       1.240.0  1t. 160.0   12,400.0    12.0  1l03    120.4         o        I
*  MENIE CIVIL                142, 0. N3   ,  III.1  23, O4. 0  1. J.8  3a. 7 Z32, 3         40       a3
* FORNATION VULGEISATION        1.221.5    213U5    tI13LO    1.?7   2.1    20.7             10       0
F. RECHERCIE/F101TINII         23.14L 5  1, 476. 5   42, 62.0   224.7  183 1   413.8         46       3
_ EOOIPElflTS                  5.34L..  IL o01 sa   Ist o  00   327.3 033  1. 054.2          aI        I
L. VENIWLES                    14.070.4  35*,ML 6   @8.930.0   13L61  34L 2   48. 3          72       4
1.  UILESIE                    IL 4,26. 1   3.91L4    10. 412 0  S3.1   3Q 0    lot. 1       38        1
J. EEIPENENTSAWEIJIAX           3.532.5   L242.5   11.775.0    34.3   60.0   114.3           70        1
L NILIEPS/UOCNTATION            t 1. 485. 0    43.L0    4.S50.0    14.4  31.5    4  I        To       0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS           314p041.3 *IIL1111.1  37t,151.4 3,82A6 4.W0.5 LSILl            5#      U
Pyical Continncies             30n..5  Iace.4   MLa83L         233.6  33.8   15.3            55       s
Priceo r -!i1ng.1eg            79,473.7 141212   149.t39L Iu    ntu 6  6aS  1450.S           47       12
Total INCltUOIN  CONTINGENCIES   504. 216 4 591. 126. 7 1.015.333.2 4.8 .  S. 73. I 10. 634.9   54       M
3-B------ -----BX-- samssustaS  mammuzz 1001rus gmsg=f JW--s---u -------
:. EKERRENT CUSTS
A  FRAIS EIISSION              4,9.0   4,141.0   11.35.0    953    i s6   156.              40        1
*  PERSONNEL   I * MI.LOKO                 200.0  114,264.0  t12L8      1.9  1.12L8          0       3
C  FORNATION/LCCL              4.258.4    317.6 5         U1 L0    30.2   3     8 N. 1      10        I
* VEICUILB                    30.074.4  70.173.6  100. 2460   22.0   M1.3   372.2          70       8
E. FONCTIOENENT GENERUL       14492.5  9,332.6   22,475.0   15Q1    511    218.2            27       2
F. PERSONEL CIURE            111,201.5    300.0  112,001.1  l,0796      7.  1.087.4          1       U
G. FOUIINITURES UEUX           3. 10. 0  7,245.0   10.350.0    30.1   70.3   100.5          70        1
Total RECURENT COSTS             295.014.9 11.864.7  3U1.M7t  2,5K2   E1.I  3.73.1              24      31
Psial Continpies                5.LM.O  8431.3    14.224.3    15.2   81.0   1311             53        1
PrIce Contingenciee            78.732-8  19.440.5   14,732.4   75L0   1l3.3   351.6          20       a
Total INCLUDIM COTINMCIE         379. 6ON.8 120. 237.2  49 U837.5 3.3 5.4 1, n..4 4.852.-       24      40
Total SSEtLINE COSTS              NIL ,06 2 574.082.8 51254.R030  4 UD. 9 5.SQ24 12. 272. 2      45      100
Physical Contingancles          34,544.5  44,517.2   83.051.3   354.8  451.1   80L4          53       1
Price Contingecies             154,26.5 83.3&A  248 130.3  1,5LL    872.5 2.409.0            35      20
Total PIID,IECT CUSTS             10.12 7t11.38L  l.N2J.L 231I  Lu    4,306 15.487.7             45      125
hbxw    IL IM    1L51



- 63 -
Annex 3
Table 2
INAUt I
POET AUICOLE K *ITAI
S.wArv Accotomt by Tar
Totati  Includien  Contir4euia    1.1.1 IncludIng Ccntlnumuslo
(FRE  Nil 0onI                  QISS NtIlIl nl)
loSe  1387  188  lIo   IIIS  Total   1EN 13S7 lo9S 138  19E  Total
1. IIWESTINST COSTS
_______________
& ASSISTMUCE TECIUIOUE         I5  59.E  54.8  U.0  71.0  322.2  0.6 0.6  0.5  0.6  0.8  2l1
i E1NW3TESDE BASE               10.2 134.7    -    -  13.?  15  s  0.1  1.3    -   - 0.1  L.S
C. FOINTIE                      L 2   tI   4.1  4.1  4.7   L54   0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0  0.2
L. UIEe CTVIL                  33.8  .U 121.1 34.7  27.2  303.1  t.O  0.1  1.2 0.3 0.4  tI
E  FOSATION VOLGARISATIU        0.*5  0.2  1.4  0.2  0.2    2.8  0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0  a0.
F. KCEICHE/FOWATIO              4.2  4.2  15.0  15.3  17.0   564  0.0 O.0 0.I 0.2  0.2  0.1
IL EQIUPEIIEIITS               26 1        I 48L0  21.6  2. 3   140.2  0.2  0.1 0.5 0. 2  0.3  1.4
M. VEHICULES                    15.   0.9 3S.5  4.5  1.1   62.0  0.2  0.0 0.4 0.0  to.   e.
1.  EILIEMS                     S.3  0.1  T.3  0.1  0.1    It?7  0.1 00  0.1 0.0  0.0  0.1
d. EQUIPENIEIITSAIUREAUX        2.3  0.1   El  3I   0.1   14.8  0.0 0.0  0.   0.0  0.0  0.1
L 1ILh1.lERS1VOCCUENTATION       1. 1  0.3  2.8  1.0 t  .I    6.4  0.0 0.0  0 0 t o    0.0  0.1
-- - ----    ------ -   -   -- - -----  - -  - -- - -  - -- - -  - - --- - -- - - ---- -- - _
Total INVESTNEET COSTS           222.3 218 3 301.4 1S.7 152.8 1J015.4  2.3 2. 1 2.9  1.B  1. I  10l. 
*-- . g 2 ......~.. ..SR.0.8.80oe......... Mass B...  .................. ara
"1. tECURREIIT COSTS
A. FRiS 8ISS101L 2.1  L3  4.8  L.2  5.6   20.0  0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1  0.2
P PERSNEI. U APPI!             11.2  12.1 3L21 41.3 44.2  147.0  0.1 0.1 0.4  0.4  0.4  1.4
C. FOMATION/LOCAL               1.0  1.O   .3  3I   .8   12t?   0.0  L.o 0.0  0.0  0.9  0 .1
0. EHICULES                    11.0  I11  34.4 37.1 32.3  132.1  0.1 0.1 0.2  0.4  0.4  1.3
E  FOINCTIOWNENEiIT GENERAL    2.5  2.4   LO  87   B.2   30.8  0.0 0 o O. I C.  I 0.1  0.3
F. PERSOIEL CASR              11.0  ILl 325.5  3.7  42.5  141.5  0.1 0.1 0.4  0.4  0.4  1.4
C  FOUURTIIUES WREaUX           1.0  1.1  3.3  3.9  4.2   13.9  0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6  0.1
Total RECURIEIIl COSTS            31.3  43.3 12T.7 132.5 140.5  43L58  0.4  0.4  1.2  1.4  1.5  4.i
Total PROUECT COSTS               272.8 262.1 21. 1 211.2 332.1  , DL5.2  2.31  2.5  4.2 tOB 2  15.5
.rSeag a... W. Itaes        . 5s1  sas   Ww. e  as -w-     mss   &=saw
Febrmy S  1SU  IaS: 1



POTl  eIIICOLE K  SIT*UA
MUlEml  aE SWAN  AICVTS
IFt 1 N1llioe
* s Costs                 Physical Contigm   Itss           Prle Contigantls                  Total Inel. Cent.           Phyeseal
Cmtt. Plug   ha. Costa
Local                             Loeal                          Local                           Local                      Prfle Cant.   * Prles
For.  (Exhl. Dutles A             For.  (Exol. Duties I          for.  (Eao . Outle  a          For.  IExel. Duties A            on Phyefeal   Cent. on
Each. Taxes)  Taxes   Total    Exsh. Taxesl   Taxes   Total  Each. Taxes)  Taxes   Total  Each. TaxisD  Taxes   Total                 Cant.      use Cost$
1. INVESTIENT COSTS
A. ASSIStANCE TECHNIQUE         129.9  115.9        6.1   251.U   13.5    6.5        0.9  20.9   22.6   25.6         1.2  49.9  156.0  141.9         8.3   322.2           24.4        297.3
6. EIIUETES OE USE              105.4   35.3        1.U   142.0    0.5    1.1        0.2   1.8    7.9    5.4         0.5  13.8  112.8   42.2         2.4   IS6.6            2.2       1I1.4
C  FORMATION 11.2    0.9                           0.9    12.4    1.1    0.1         0.1   1.2    2.4    0.2        0.1   2.7   14.7    0.9         0.6     1.4            1.          14.3
0. GENIE CIVIL                   96.9  122.2      20.4   239.5    9.7   12.2         2.0  24.0   13.5   23.0         3.0  39.8  120.1  151.5        25.4   303. I         21.6        275.5
1. fOMATION WULIRISATION          0.2    1.7       0.2      2. 1    0.0    0.2       0.0   0.2    0.0    0.4         0.0   0.4    0.3    2.2         0.3     2.6            0.3          2.5
F. KECHEROlE/MORlhTIOm           19. 5   19.9      3.2    42. 6    1. 6    1.0       0.3   2. 1    4.4    S.5        0.8  10.7   25.1   2.L4         4.     96.4           J.8         S2. 6
IL EQUIPENENTS                   6.6   29.1        10.9   106.6    S.3    2.7         1.0  10.0   12.2    7.2        2.2  21.6   67.1   39.1        14.0   140.2           11.6        12L3
N. VENICULES                     35.9    9.1        5.0    49.3    2.6    0.9        0.5   S.0    4.7    1.1         0.7   7.1   44.1   11.7         6.2    62.0            5.6         55.4
1.    IIIIERS                     2.9    S.9        1.0    10.4    0.4    0.9        0.1   1.0    0.4    0.8         0.1   1.3    4.7    6.9         1.1    12.7            1.2         11.6
J. EOUIPENENTS/AUREAUX            8.2    2.4        1.2    11.6    0.6    0.2        0.1   1.2    1.2    0.9         0.2   1.9   10.3    3.1         1.9    14.3            1.2         13.S
L  NILIERS/Uc0CUENTATION          2.9    1.0        0.5     9.0    0.3    0.1        0.0   0.5    0.6    0.2         0.1   0.3    4.4    1.2         0.5     6.4            0.s6         9.3
...  ....  .....  .......------      ------       -----*"-----      ..... .....  ........ .....  .....----    ...... .....  ...   ...  ....  .....  ....   -- -- -- -- ---  - -- -- ----
Total INVESTRENT COSTS             483.1  243.2       50.9   671.2   38.1   25.5         5.3  58.6   69.9   70.5        9.0 149.4  531.1  439.2        65. 1 1,095.4          60.2      1.015.2
II. UECUIENT COSTS
L  FRAIS HISSION                 6.5    6.2        1. 6    16.4      -            -          -    1.2    2.0        0.4   3.     7.6   10.2        2.0    20.0               -        20.6
L  PERSONNEL 0 APPUI             0.2  116.0       0.1   1118.                                     0.0   30.7        0.0  30.6    0.2  145.7         0.1   147.0              -        147.0
C. FOMATIONAOCAL                 0.9    7. 3      0.9      9.2    0.1    0.1        0.1   0.3    0.2    2.1         0.3   2.3    1.2   10.2         1.3    12.1            1.2         11.5
0. VtHIWIJES                    70.2   20.0       10.0   100.2    7.0    2.0         1.0  tO.0   19.5    S.6        2.4  22.7   32.7   27.9        12.4   133.9           12.2       121.6
E. FONCTIOIINERENT GENERAL       6.0   14.4       2.1    22.5    0.5    1.4         0.2   2.2    1.2    4.2         0.6 5.0    7.3   20.1          2.9    30.3            2.6         230
F. PERSOKNEL CAORE               0.6  111.0       0.2   112.0        -       -        -      -    0.1   29.4        0.0  22.5    0.9  140.4        0.2   141.5               -       141.5
L FOURNITURES BUREAUX            7.2    2.1        1.0    10.4    0.7    0.2        0.1   1.0    1.5    0.1         0.2   2.5    3.6    2.S         1.4    12.9            1.3         12.6
Totel RECU NT COSIS                 31.3  279.1       I.0   J6.3    8.4    4.4           t.4  14.1   16.6   71.0        I.C 3. 1.   122  261.4         11.2   4U.I            17.4       4*.S
Total                               175.0  622.2       683 1,264.0   41.9   29.3          1.7   3.1   U.S  14.4          12.6 248.1  711.4  1`71.6       5 . lIn.U            91.6      1.41.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .......................................................................... ...........................................................................................................................
fawubry IL   111 IL, 51
I-i,
wwX



- 65 -
Annex 3
Table 4
PODE?T LICOLE KE  i7fITS
Project Conents by Tar
IFIN '0001
Bse. Coots                            Total
* -..-.- -s-----.--.----------..- -------- --- - ----------...:   - ---------
:35 is"       13o"     Iii       tino        FEN    Piss 0001
L UULfRISLTICI
_____________
*ITE CEfTR4tE               17. 027.0 30.501.0  14. 81. 0  10.584.0 34. 501.0   11.2 24.0   1. 12L I
COODINlTION PREFECTURE     20,254.0  15.218. 0  13L L 0  15. 301.0 15, 218 0   2,3 3. 0    ?33. 3
UNITE  PERATIONNELLE        34.014.4   6545.4 10U.9UtU.  38.3S4.5  35,593.8   223.U12ft  2. it.0
C lUIES                    55,1 5L0 33.ft3.0 ItIl, Il.0 106.,455.0 104.53L 0   45L1. mo0   4.4L3.
AUTNES ICTIVITES            L 125. 0 121,92 30   18305. 0  17. m. o0  1125t.0   241.315.0   2.34L 7
Sub-Total  ULGffIShThfN      1t5,135.4 210,131.4 315.02f6t f5. 1140.8 201.20f5.8  1.123.Mt5  10.12.S
5 PROPITIO
PUIOTN                     51.,034.1 2233BL5  22.,8f.4 22.112s.  20.508.4   140. 04. 4    1. 35L I
Sib-Total PianONs             51.024.1 2333L5.  22.06f.4  223721S 2L.589.4   140. 04L.4   1. 35L.7
Total BASELINE COSTS           24fL71S.5 233.51.0 337.11L 021,13.5 225,775.0  1.2f4.f3OX0   12.272.2
Physical ContIngucla         20.441.3  8,442.3  25.754.6  13821.fl 14.IN. 2    83.011.6      SO34
Price Contingmicles           5,543.0 20,111.2 U1.15.5  3,5.6ff  30.534.O   248L.130.3   2.403.O
Total PRDJECT COST             272,804.4 262 072 1 429. 03. 4 m. 182.0 332. 109. 1 1.5S5,O21.   15.4tB7.
=-u-- .-.- ......... -l .p  f"uu.3 -m*.s ...r  -.-sm- .ans.uuu-- su-muu-m"-
Taze                          18S83.3  L433.8  29.057.8  14.3954.4  11310.5    IC,31t?       0330
Foregi Eachang               130.345.2 157.135.5 181.331.5 115,442.4 127.051.3   111.353.3     5   L,354
Feb-r IL imt t :51



- 66 -
Annex 3
Table 5
RIt * A11 9 A
IWET ItICOLE 2 GITA1MII
Project C__maeto by Tsar
Totals Including Contingoncl,                         Totals Including Contig ncl"
IFM1I 0001                                            9   l00
1388    t137       fNe     18g       1390     Total       l13E    1967   1911B   1989   1m      Totsl
..swUuS fl...um 3u.mfsu swu.luu  u.u .sn.s.........au.  nem   Ra. sa..**fa.amg
~~~----- .. ----- ---- --.---
MITE CENTR4LE               19,050.5 3C,2S4.3  lt,737.5 218.50.1  51,411.5  152.414.0   1l5.0  352.1  131.3  2S1.7  499.1  t,T4737
COOMINATIU   PREFECTURE    21.411. I 1O.t1 1.S  20,06.O0  20,221.3  21t52L.9  100.137.2   207.9  164.2  131.8  19J.3  203.0   3.2
WNITE OPERUTIONELLE        37.183.0  I, 78. 4 1315,34.5 51. 905. 3 51.554.0  283 10 1   357.6   95.0 1.330.0  503.9  50Q 5 2. M. I
CeItES                     61.671.2  33,011.5 201.463.3 144.523.0 152,745.6  5u1,44117    51.L8  378. 8 l.5IL1 1.403.1 1,4U. 0 58.3I
MTITES  C IOIITES          75,070.3 131,775.9  22,828.6  23,154.5  23,5119.5  276 426. 7    72L 8 1, 279.4  221.5  224.8  22L 1 283.5,
Sub-Total WtLG*RISITIIM      215,074.1 233,118.7 400, IO0  2B3,754.4 300J,37.3 1.41t532.5  2,03 OL1 2.283.5 3.8U.5 2,589.8 2.t20.8  13.372
L PRCOTIIN
PRWhhfN                    57,730.3  284312.4  28,355.5 32,427.7 31,271.5  17L698. 3    530.5  274.3  281.1  314.8  303.8  6,7S4.3
Sub-Total _M ItT              57,730.3 23,213.4 28 t55.5  32,427.7 32.271.5   t7L,L3   5S0.5  274.9  231.1  314.1  303.B  1 ,784.
Total PROECT COSTS             272, 4. 4 262, 072.1 429,013.4 294,182.0 332, 109.  1.595.231. 1 2, 64 . 2, 544. 4 4.165.7 2.304.7 3.224.4 15.4JT.t
eUt SflUU  eeenasss-s- CUR SRUUUSam   -R-   ..Uea-ss- e,e.. eetee.. eU s e,a assesSna..3a..   as ssu3   R33s32-:--
F asy_ L. IM It 51



- 67 -
Annex 3
Table 6
RWANDA
PNIET DE REINFORCEMENT INSTITUIIONNEL O  NINAUNI
SuAr ACCOUNITS COST SMNRT
IFRI '0001                  (USS I 000                     I Total
-----------------------------  ----------------------- S Foreign   la"
Local    foreign   Total       Local  Foreign Total    Exchange    Casts
flu...... .s.....n *us-.-sa     *-sa-ss   us..... us-e.....  .ss......  .u.a.
1. INVESTEKNT COSTS
A  VENICULES                       4.522.0  1.c 2ff80  IS. 150.0    43.3   112.3   156.8          72        3
SL ICUEIITS TECHINIIUE               377.0   3. 3 o0  3.770.0        3.7    32.9    36.6          so 0
C. APPUI TECHNIQUE                49,376.4 197.505.6 245, 2. 0    479.4 1.017.5 2.396.9           80       41
*. FORIATION LtOCALE              26,215.0   4.565.0  30.850.0    255.0    44.5   29L.5           15        5
E. FORITION A   EXTERIEURE          .900.0  30. 100.0  8,o000.0     SL84   777.7  864.1           9o       15
F. IOBILIER                        4.536. 1  2.437.9   7,034.0      44.0    24.3    6a.3          36        1
G. EQUIPEIIENT IUFORWITIOUE       12.900.0  30. 100.0  43,000.0    125.2   292.2   417.5          70        7
IL ECUIPENENT UREAU                1,83. 6   4.335,2   6.278.8      1&.3   42.7   61.0            70 
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              108, 760. 1 334. 204. 7 442. 64.68  I 055.9 3.244.7 4,300.6      75       73
Phaical Contingencis              7,219.4  18.7313  26,013.3       70.1   182.5  252.6           72        4
Price Contingencies               21.058.0  50.349.9  71.406.0    204.4   488.8  6S3.3            71       12
- --   - -   - - ---  - --- ---   ------  --  ------  --  ------  --   - --- - - -  --  -----  --   -- -
Total INCLUDING CONrINGENCIES       137.037.5 403.345. 5 540.386.1  1,330.5 3,316.0 5.246.5          75       as
11. RECURREIT COSTS
_______________
A. PERSONNEL CADRES              60. 144.0         -  60. 144.0    583.9      -  583.9            -       10
6. PERSONNEL D APPUI             23,284.0          -  28,284.0    274.6       -  274.6            -        5
C. FONCT;OINENENT VEHICUILES     13,050.0  30.450.0  431500.0    126.7   1s.6   422.3            l0        7
-. FOUIJAITURES                     870.0  2t030.0   2,900.0        6.4    I9.7    26.2          70        0
ll IEINIIITES DE VOYASE           7,259.0   4.756.0  12.015.0      70.5   46.2   1t6.7           40        2
F. FONCTIONNENENT GENERAL        12, 0oo.    3 3,000.0  15,000.0    116.s   29. 1   145.0        20        2
.- - - - -- -- -- ---- -- -- -----  -- ----- -- -- --- -- -----  -- -- ----   -- ----
Total RECRRET  COSTS                121,907.0  40.236.0 161,843.0  1,180.7   390.6 1,571.3           25       27
Physical Contingeci.s              2,592.0   3,548.0   9,1 40. 0    25.2    34.4    59.6          5s        I
Pries Contingencies               26.68. 7   6,716.8  33.165.      260.9    68.0   326.9          20        6
. -----  ---- ----- -- -------  ------- ------ ------  ----- ---  -------
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES       1510.07.7  50.580. 8 701, 6  a6  1, 46. 7   49t. I 1,157.8       25       33
Total BASELINE COSTS                 230 367. 1 374.4U0.?7 604,807.8  2,22366 E3s.35-, 5-,671.9       62      100
Physical Contingencies              9,611.4  22.341.3  32 153.3      95.3   216.3   312.2          69        5
Price ContIngecie                  47,926.8  57.146.8 105,073.5    485.3   554.8 1,020.1           54       l7
-- - - - -- - -- ----  -- -- -----  -- ----  -- ----- -- -- ---  -- -- ----   -- -- --
Total PROJECT COSTS                  268. 105.3 453.929.3 742. 034. 6 2. 797.1 4.407. 1 7,2W. 2       61      123
.....         .      ......  ....... .......  .........  .......
Fewu      , IL  1388  1:53



- 68 -
Annex 3
Table 7
PIET DE I   FIERIEIM TtTSTIThTlIEL U 11NItUl
Sumry Aooumt, by Year
Tetl. Incld1in  Cmttaumwi.                          Totals Including Cmntimpu1es
(FMI I'OMWM 115  000)
I        t3F       1Ul      16       1o3o    Total      1333  1t       13Ul    1on   t13   Total
.Uu.3s -.ns    s.ufu  -fl...- ....nu  *.3f.  E*3.3  ....   R... -u--*-s*  sss  *.
1. IUMSTNENT COSTS
* WEIICULES                      4311.4  2.014.1  2.172.4  4,134.3  1. 233   20,310.1    64.    1L.6   21.1   72.J   11.2 1W. 2
*   UICTS TEWINQUE                   34    1 733      33 8     . N030. 2   1. 106   4.J&3. L *    8       3 . 1    10.0  1to0.5   4J.
C. -J   TECRIQKS                73S9.3  S0, 713L   54432  52601.3  55.553.7230830.1M   7J2.2  43.4  5101.2  510.1  543. I2L23
1  FOhATIOh LOCALE              411130   L511.5  S.123.5  L4T3 t2  T.27L 5 40* 073         79.3   82.5   80.5    30    70.7 I     LI
L  FOMTION A L EXTERIERE        14011.5  27. 15.L  30,801.2 20,417.2  17,820.8 12L517.6    1SL.5  2LI  233.0  1O.   17t.1 13.334
F. NIRLZERt                     4.52t.6  1. 5  1  1 ,1112      7Sf.t    406. 8  L423.8    4.    M5.0   11.     t.4    4.0   81O
L EWIPENENT INFOlTIUQE          11.210.8  4.744.0  5.117.3  24.473.3        - S.552.6    103 a   4L1  41.7  334.5           -  1333
L  EQUIPEET WREAU                2. 37L A    731.3  1.,74.6  2, 55. 8    20L 0  7. 33.8    24.0    7. I   13.2   24.3    2.0   1L 1
- --- - - - - --- - - -- - -- - -- - - - - -- - - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- - - ---- - - -- - - - -- - - - -  -        .  .  
Teotl INVESTUET COSTS             125 437.2 3, 754.3 10J l 7l  0 12L8*4 34*433I1  40. 383 1  1. 24 0  333 4 1 0o0 3  1.231.3   3138JL343.3
..---....---.. --s-se    ..MM..  m--ag.MM  an-... -mm  .o.fl..Ms ..Mufl. -sM . w-m -m--mU  ---M*M  esummon *mMR-"
II  KECHRRENT COSTS
A. PESuNM  CURES               10,244.3  11.307.0  I5 207. 9  17.234.5  19, 7. 1  73.32 8   100.4  115.6  141.5  1S7.3 9 33.2   1L 38
*  PERSONNEL I APOUI           S. 4 *7  L,237.5 S L,331    7.413. 5   l e031 24,322.3    54.8    1.1 17. 0   716    77.7  333.2
C. FOCtTlIIlUE_N  VEIUILES     10.257.   1 tO31.5l  10J747.5  115385.3  12.45L S  55  L33 IL 93.   105.4  104.3 IJ LS   120.3  343 .
IL FWUITURES                     33.       313.5    575.      820 5     67. 2  3,J43.3 Llt 11             S.      3 L 0    L.5   3L.4
L ItlWtITES OE WOYAE           2323.2  3,021.2  2, 52 1   2X 153.  23,60.1  142121 2      27.5   2 .3   24.8   23.    23.7  131.2
F.  UIINNENERT GENERAL         3,377.0  3,1 13.3  3,95.3  4,251.7  4,557.3  13,3137    32.8   331   334    41.6   44.5  SOL.4
Total PROECT COSTS                 101. M&42 123233. 7 1       17Q20304 133,132I    742,0345 1,570.3e 172U 45 1.331,2 1 "L3. 12J1.4 7,264.3
*- 6. 1--6 1--53 --   --------- - ---
F_rmw  %  IM It 1S3



rn aoi
........  ...........b C...!!-.. .. ..t.s...........
helEl,kl.                               Mee.  Ie                            Itli Keel, kiln$ A                         tnsi ta. kiln  A                 -   yta    ba    m
. ....I.. .......... ......... ......... .........             ....... .. ....   ..........  - .-. . ......... ........ ........a .......... ........I... -..-.. .........  ...........-...... -  --   .|; l4. | 
Ia. t_        fans)      fats,  fetal       Fm. tn  ?znl   tas    Fattal   le. Uk              fta        fain      etaztl  ser. t_k      Tasel      Fue      ftabll    Ct.          - te   Ct
I. imslum iss
t  N      S  i    esi            mueL             as.   1,11La     IIute        ue1.:    to 11    ts    Ute         sets          As I     IR       sts       ta.,         LIMt    Ht  KOsM                1.e444        t4L
I aun          tlt               nts    mat                   *eem.    s  luLt.= Lut en                         timt            .tnnts  -, sison   main,                                ttus  - n sat   lte    ses
L         ls                     amitt e   unite    t   &Ite                   ens sIt  toLt  sac                   54&itt    4iu   site  tine   tin1                      mat tai1 nose    mute                         menu
msmat            t             n     e           t     ten.   awe..         see   eme             e                ssoeenc                ue.   ta e          ies uote   te                 ti1iLt       i1t11,       testate
TiLSAtI 10llSL ,                                416SIL:  S.|4 1284111:n A.^XL oat^ Iz1SLl.                                                              L      ^ 11                   1X        ^ 0,31.                  Sl"t sa,A      0@4.
IL tottm gW t                     UL        is,4 K          I       * of        % I 14LA*                           144       lX 4.6-1fiU         t               1X    34 ML 1 4. -    06fL             XG31          IL 4L 
t   wsiP ssaInitg               m             as11ete  1,s      ILttte 4J.n.  -ate    as        ate     I.tt. t.3lt.               t ai   t NLI  tt4s 1          s 4itt11    titul     1m1ass               tl          ttMO11
L  LI _M tt                      0 1          LuLl    Ut.S   tits              (t  15.6    ItS@  Uti                 NIt         151       U.i      1t       ttC           Lilt. ti ilt   til1tS            ilLS. IlnS
..........    ............    ........    .........    ..........    .......    ........    ........  ..........    ............. ........   . . ......    .............. ....................................................................................... ..... ......
fetal sr_    t Ms   I mS          mte.i10.      aSe  Itiaies. .s Oo.I i1tti                         1 t    lte itlti     1te.e    se41It   eL            te   as 11         tileti Ltes .L 1St,              sac..        SWIt S .                             1%
S.e tol  suns                                 mu"llse"        * utl.. io.^e         *       *        .1 ^ *              *t       eas              ta*                     tunue           *Z u"tu.s           teuts4 ............."1 ".
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1uitetesu                                                                                mete.s1.
L  i     Iisms K nuts           elite6       tilts.1  ttott  IeLtaL                       *                 *      15t51       111. lH.ILt'        III        46 tilts, tans1Ltu14 LOt ILte                  te         t 4,ins
i. "m l sI    aKm               uont         muteL    n.14      tt"5          met  Lut           Ate  .ine         UL         L Imt     ULt   tmstLI    tate11:         1.O stt    tty.   mist,9         tate          masts
Fetal            MIAteott2    sass10. ilulLi sauteM                             u.mote 1,11te  tast   mIs            miei          uit         l      o e        a e          a    s6ut   oo.                 .ias         iee.
lSimn t  me  test~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14416SL
fai I    110, L    IL31 .3 K lt. 11.41.P."  IT IIL 111     , 4LS      410114  4 046 4"I 40 6     9% SNL    1111,on.It               4LOK     "J&IS                 N 
...............................................................................................   .. .........................................
IL  ~~~~~~~~~~ la w~~~~~~~~~~I



- 70 -
Annex 3
Table 9
R_
PROBET M RENF0CENET INSTITUTIONEL rI  uIrMcI
Project Cqipnuto by Toea
(FRO I0001
Bess Costs                            Total
l9se      1967      198       IU       limo        rR0  M  on5 leo
B.*U..2;;CmSC flttUW...tt*g........Ui          ...3*g    SU.....g .fl3SmnUU
A. ETUDES ET PLANIFICATION (COUTS D INVETISSENENTS)          59,633.0  41.82.0  454t2.0  31,115.0  31,412.0  214,434.0    2.091.3
3R ETUDES ET PLANIFIC*TION (CUTS DE FONCTIONNENENTI           9 406.0   9 SS6.0  9,431.0   9.491.0   I491.0   47,465.0        4eas
. CONTROLE ET EVALUATION ICIUIS D INVESTISSEHENT)             2 88.0    324.0    864.0  1.930.0          14.0   5, 35.0        54.3
B. CONTROLE ET EVALUATION (COuTS DE FONCTIONEiENETI          6i 127.0  64295.0  S. 220.0  64230.0   1,230.0  32. 112.0       202 I
E. GESTIDt IE CONPTABILITE (COUTS C INVESTISSENENI)          I9,937.0  14,412.0  17,352.0  15,06.0 L    13,312.0   79,03. 0   767.1
F. GESTION ET COMPTABILITE (CDUTS CE FONCTIUNERENTI           6,192.0   6,192.0  5.342.0  5.342.0  5.342.0   29,410.0         27L 3
G. ASSISTANCE EN INFONIATIQUE ICOUTS B INESTISSEHENTI        I. 769.0  15.860.0  10,748.0  3asea. 0  10. 5480   92,32230      ML39
!1. ASSISTANCE Et INFORNTIOUE (COUTS BE FOPICTIONNEPIENTI     1 ,3280   1t,892. 0   2.072.0   2072. 0   2.072.0    S. 43L0     itS
1. DOCUHENTATIoN ET INFORNiATION (COUTS D INVESTISSEE, ISt.16.5   7,066.3  1,197.5   3,765.0   3.032. 5   33.247.8           322.8
i. WCUMENTATION ET INFORNATION (COUTS DE FONCTIONEIENTI       3, 124.0  3.074.0  4,224.0  4.3L 0   5.244.0  20.50s2.0        DLt
K. CDURUIER ET ARCHIVES                                       3,440.9  3.799.4  2,048L3   1,047.5   1.047.5   11,234.1         1t0QS
L GESTION  DU PERSONNEL                                       2,093.0   1,337.0  1.733.0    733.0       733.0    T. 229. 0    7. 2
IL GESTION DES CREDITS                                        5,:97.0   4,692.0  4.6080   4.741.0   4.606 0   24.548.0        23L3
----_--- ---- ---- --------- --------- ---------  ---------  ----- --
Total BASELINE COSTS                                          150,991.4 16L 651.? 116 322.3 127,718.5  93.0s6.0  604.807.8   5.i7l.9
Physical Contingacins                                        7, 6360    6,572.1   6,429.5   7,511.7   4 003.9   32.153.3     3112
Price Cont1ngecies                                           3,166.3  10,113.0  21.061.8  35, 31.2  35. OS S  1050.73.5    !,02.. 
-----     - ---- -  ------- ---------   - -   - - --- - - ------  - --- -   -- -- - - - - -- -- -- -
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           161,794.2 133.336.7 143,813.7 170.903.4 132, ISL7  742.034.6    7,204.2
aeetu    r..i.g=z   . .....su a:..... . ..u...KSa.. ......... ....3zu3
Taxes                                                        55.2   5,01C. 9   5, 338.   3 ,277.9   3. 1ta 7  25,427.7       278 1
Foreign ExchOnge                                           104,618.9  82.98L2 73 ,7.9 50 ,810.!   74,318.  452,922.3   4.07.1
Fderuy 6. 1986 It 53



DAN
PROET DE REIJOICENINT INSIITUTIONNEL DU NINAIhI
Project Canertnts by Voer
Totals Including Continrncis                                 lotals Including Contingncies
IFRH '@00)                                                   (USS '000)
1965       1987       l9o6       19E9       1990      Total       1965    167    1986    1959    1990   Total
33333333333333333  *33mn*3323332333   "u133    233238232  213332 23333  633233*; 83 :323 ;*33;
A. ETUDES ET PIANIFICATION  ICOUITS 0 INVETISSEIIENTSI              63.339.5  45,455.0  55,646.1  45,451.0  45,172.4 252,290.0    514.9   470.5   551.9   470.6   435.6 2,54.1
B. EIUDES ET PLANIFICATION  ICOUTS DE FONCTIONNENENT)                I0, 187.5  11, 070.7  11 962. 1  12, 935.    3, 8170.7  E0 021.6      96.9   107.5   11. I   125.6   134. 7   92.8
C. CONTROLE El EVALUATION  ICOUIS 0 INVESTISSENENTI                  3. 150.3       40.6  1 104. 1   2,656.6        20.6   1 974.4        30.5      0.4    10.     25.6      0.2    61.1
0. CONTROLE ET EVALUATION  (COUTS DE rONCTIONNENENTI                  6,532.0   7,150.0   7,705.5   8,333.5   8,936.1  36,658.4           63.4    69.4    74.8    80.9    85.1   375.3
E. GESTION ET CONPTAUILITE  ICOUTS D INVESTISSENENTI                20. 156.5  15, 955. 4  20, 971. 7  19. 434.9  18,310.3  94, 629. 7    195. 7   154.9   203.5   168.7   177. 8   320. 7              I
F. GESTION El COMPTABILITE lCOUTS CE FONCTIONNENENTI                 6, 60.4   7,023.5    5 569.7   7, 108. I   7, 618.6  34,900.3         63.9    66.2    63.5    69.0    74.0   33L.9
0. ASSISTANCE EN INIFORPATIWE  (COUTS 0 INVESTISSEIIENTI             19 9.4.2  17, 662. 1  12 512.2  46,857.4  14. 195.9 113, 194.6    193.8   171.5   121.5   474.3   137.9 1, M.0
H. ASSISTANCE EN INFORNATIQUE  ICOUTS DE FONCTIONNENENT               1,438. 1   2. 152. 7   2. 566. 2   2, 776.0   2, 975.8  11 908.8    14.0    20.9    24.9    27.0    28.9   115.6
1. DOCUMENTATION ET INtFORATIToN  Cours o INVESTISSEENtI            14,7St.S    6,35J9.3   7 949.0   5 192.5   4, 41.1  40,763.5    143.5    81.3    77.2    50.4    43.5   316.0 
J. DOCUMENTATION El INFORMATION  ICOUTS OE FONCTIONNENENT)           3,256.7   3,445.0   5, 177.4   6,415.8   7,441.5  25, 750.4           31.7    33.5    50.3    62.3    72.2   210.0
K. COURRIER El ARCHIVES                                               3,761.5   4,422.3   2,552.6   1,379.9    1,476.8  13, 593. 1        36.5    42.9    24.8    13.4    14.3   132.0
L. GESTIol OU PERSONNEL                                              2,256.9   2,220.4   2, 168.5        965.5   1, 033.2  86645.5        21.9    21.6    21.1        9.4    10.Q    53.9
M. GESTION DES CREDITS                                                6 377.0   5, 355.5   5, 727.5   6,378.5    6540.5  30,477.0         51.9    52.0    55.6    61.9    64.5   295.9
-----  -----  --------- -- ---  -----_----   ......... . .. .. ... .. . .... ... .... ... ..... ....... 
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                   161, 794. 2 I3, 336. 7 143, 613. 7 10, 903. 4 132, 16. 7 742, 034.6  1,1 570. 6  1, 294. 5 1, 396. 2 1,6 59. 1  1, 28. 4 7, 204. 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*............................................................................................ .. ...... .......   . E................................
February 5. 1965  18:53
12  
IONM
M -



- 72 -
Annex 4
Ta ble 'T
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
AND MINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements - GITARAMA
(US $ 'UDO)
Cumulative
disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                               Quarterly          at end of
and Quarter                               Disbursements        quarter
1986  December 31, 1985 /a                        100                100
March 31                                    110                210
June 30                                     110                320
1987  September 30                                200               520
December 31                                 250                770
March 31                                    250              1,020
June 30                                     300              1,320
1988  September 30                                350              1,670
December 31                                 400              2,070
March 31                                    500              2,570
June 30                                     550              3,120
1989  September 30                                600             3,720
December 31                                 600              4,320
March 31                                    650              4,970
June 30                                     700              5,670
1990  September 30                                700             6,370
December 31                                 700              7,070
March 31                                    700              7,770
June 30                                     650              8,420
1991  September 30                                600             9,020
December 31                                 450              9,470
March 31                                    350              9,820
June 30                                     200              1,020
1992  September 30                                180             10,200
/a Disbursements under PPF.



Annex 4
- 73 -               Tabl-e 2
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
AND MINAGRI INSTITTrIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements - MINAGRI - IDA
(US $ 'UQO)
Cumulative
disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                Quarterly          at end of
and Quarter                                Disbursements         quarter
1986  December 31, 1985 /a                          50                50
March 31                                      50               100
June 30                                       50               150
1987  September 30 /b                               75               225
December 31                                   75               300
March 31                                      75               375
June 30                                      100               475
1988  September 30                                 100               575
December 31                                  150               725
March 31                                     150               875
June 30                                      150             1,025
1989  September 30                                 200             1,225
December 31                                  200             1,425
March 31                                     150             1,575
June 30                                      150             1,725
1990  September 30                                 150             1,875
December 31                                  100             1,975
March 31                                     100             2,075
June 30                                      100             2,175
1991  September 30                                  75             ..,250
December 31                                   75             2,325
March 31                                      75             2,400
June 30                                       50             2,450
1992  September 30                                  50             2,500
/a Disbursements under PPF.
/b Expected date of effectiveness.



AlflUNA  CA3OTlAL p80
no0 9184081 in9171136W  D 1,T1WfIhuTICUJIC?
PrjcoN oaroo   at Flow
ClIt"L rcttx0
13. 87 etltloo
3986    1991    3968    3989    1-20   1l91    3992    1993    1994    3991   1316    I?    1998    199    2000    20                   2W02    2002    2004    2001
A. talltov
ID  Credit  - tteroe                IS4.93  199.19  241.34  383.88  252.64          -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -                 -
-   I0AG11               30.90   43.77   72.30   34.61   14.0O          -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -    _            -       -        -       -
total IDA                            31s.8]  241.34  331.64  218.13   06.72          -                    -       -            -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        - 
aNDp - IIhtIAflh               S1350   92.10   12.10   613.0   32.S4          -        -    _           -       *        -       -        -    I           -    _           -        -       -    I
total taflow                         237.33  334.0l   403.76  300.31  339.26         -       -        -       -            -        -       -        -       -            -        -       -        -       -
. Outllows
roJact teple_wntetloa
-  Cltara                        272.80  262.00  429.04  299.18  332.12                   -                -       -
-   1,NA3CII                      363.79  133.33  343.83   170.90  132.20                 -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -    I            -       -
Sb-total                            434.59  395.40  172.87  410.08  464.32          -                -       -                                    _                      -                                                            -J
ecurrent coats  -  Gitit                  -       -        -                -  245.78  25.317  269.13  279.90  293.61  305.756  319.7  133.98  349.10  344.18  183.02  397.50  436.3   433.03  434.90
-  93310I9        _    -        -       -        -            5114   60.70   63.24   66.30   69.34 72.42   7S.                             719.01   823.2   8.30   90.27   94.33   98.17
b-tolsl                                                                                 -  -  299.0   3.9  6.27  340.40  114.89  373.06  189.23  406.40  423.18  441.63  463.44  43.69  506.37  129.34  133.37
Debt asrvice crlttsot fe*e
seac.te chatle                      3.29    6.88    71.35     .10    8.91    9.52    9.72    9.71    9.71    9.71    9.66    9.47    9.27    9.07    8.88    8.49    8.49    8.29    8.10    7.90
rtIeclpal                                 -                   _ _                                             -        -   13.08   33.08   33.08   33.08  123.0    13.08   11.04   33.08   33.081  13.O
Sub-total                              3.9    4.86    7.31    8.10    8.91    9.52    9.72    9.71    9.71    9.71   22.74   22.31   22.33   22.15   23.94   23.77   23.1    23.3    23.38  23.98
Total outflow                        4371.8  402.28  So0.22  478.13   873.3  306.60  323.69  333.98  130.33  364.60  394.80  411.78   428.71   4S4.73  441.47  481.43  31.24  3I1794  110.14  374.1S
Not elob low                        (200.1  166.22)(1 74.44)(177.8315
CuTest Ooverrmnot apeptnddters
leuletad tI  project CUte
-  Oscars                      32.10   34.34  336.80  321.79  I33.33  143.44  147.80  114.46  363.43  368.67  376.26  384.20  392.48  203.34  230.20  213.4  229.54  239.87  230.8   213.94                   I
-  3RIlACRt                    14.1   1S.I17   34.14  1.03   39.39   20.27   23.38   224   21.24  24.29   25.38   26.32   27                  28.9    30.2    331.3   33.05   34.54   31.09   31.72
Total outflow                         46.41   49.91  133.34  143.62  154.14  131.71  I3.98  378.70  34.61  12.94  201.44  230.72  220.19  130.10  240.44  233.29  22.539  374.43  34.75  29."4
tagermtal tub flow                      (313.90) (16.31) (40.92) (34.03) (20.77)144.89)133.73(319.2821 34.6131.64)193.34)1203.04)1208.34)1831.43)1225.23)(21.12)(242.87)(113.13)(33.79)(27449)



- 75 -
Annex 6
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION COMPONENT
Expected Adoption Rates/Taux d'Adaption
--- Project Year ----
1      5     10      15
Number of contact farmers/Paysans de contact    1,370  4,100  4,100  4,100
Number of farmers in groups/Paysans de groupes  6,840 41,000 49,300 49,300
Number of farms under intensification/
Exploitations intensifiees:                    13,700 33,000 69,000 73,000
Percent of total farms/Pourcentage total
des exploitations                                1      23     45      42
Area adoption rate on intensified farms/Taux
d'adoption (en surface) sur les
exploitations intensifiees:
Percent of farm area/Pourcentage de la
superficie de l'exploitation:
Thiodan                                            40      60     80      80
Actellie                                           10      40     80      80
Fertilizer/Engrais                                 10      30     50      50
Seeds/Semences                                      -      40     70      70
Farming practices/Fagons cultivables               40      60     80      80
Percentage of total area under intensification/
Pourcentage superficie totale des
exploitations intensifiees:
Thiodan                                               .4   14     36      34
Actellie                                            4       9     36      34
Fertilizer/Engrais                                  4       7     22      22
Seeds/Semences                                      -       9     32      30
Farming practices/Fagons culturales                   .4   14     36      34



-76 -                        Annex 7
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION COMPONENT
Yields of Selected Commodities/Rendement des cultures
(in kg/ha pure crop equivalent/en kg/ha equivalent culture pure)
-  Project Year 10/AnnSe 10 de Projet -
Present Level Without Project
/Actuel      /Sans Projet  With Project/Avec Projet
Without     With
Fertilizer Fertilizer
/Sans      /Avec
Engrais    Engrais
Coffee/Cafe                          500             500            600         n.a.
Bananas/Bananes
Without livestock and
fuelwood/Sans elevage
et bois                      6,400          6,400           7,400        n.a.
With livestock and
fuelwood/Sans Elevage
et bois                      7,320          7,320           8,320        n.a.
Cassava/Manioc                     5,000           4,000          5,000         n.a.
Beans/Haricots
Without livestock and
fuelwood/Sans 6levage
et bois                        640            540             890        n.a.
With livestock and
fuelwood/Sans elevage
et bois                        735            635             985        n.a.
Soybeans/Soja                        600             600            700        1,000
Sorghum/Sorgho                       900             800          1,000        2,600
Maize/Mals
Without livestock and
fuelwood/Sans 6levage
et bois                        745            645             995       2,995
With livestock and
fuelvood/Sans elevage
et bois                        830            730           1,080       3,080
Sweet potatoes/Patates douces
Without livestock and
fuelwood/Sans 6levage
et bois                      4,320          3,320           6,320        n.a.
With livestock and
fuelvood/Sans 6levage
et bois                      5,400          4,400           7,400        n.a.



O1TWIA MCLTWXu  MIII CWII 
Cl 211 USaLI Z UWU U
uuu.n mmIN urnmz MONA
tOMIiC lL"IV    f ICUIN
With fertilizer/Avec engrais
owl/ TE
e         2        2         3         4         5        i         I         a         I        to       It        12        23        II        Is       lb        II        i         It      2a
tEMI  s TOITI I            0    e          239       0"9      Sll2   117114   2205     N        4   4469    53037  SI        3   475144   41U02   37331   47111   6 71ls   d51    64595   433    MM                      1933      16169
l USIMS                                 1014         1t   2410M    121444   124363 109314.5  91144.5  940.5 1oIS1LS  9224.5  l1U22.5 107122.5 113477.5   6410.5  60.5  91610.5  923.5 111959.5  91491.5  9103.5
I iuv$                                     0.44      0.u4      0.44      0.44      0.44      e.44     0.44      0.44      0.44      0.44      0.44     0.44      0.44      e.44      e.44     6.44      0.44      6.44      6.44     0.44
Cut   0n2. "llv       iat2.               61105    24104    0u439    5S34    54720    uen            444       41731    4736    4054        4339      47136    49930    39752    47611    4425    302            4922    40250    406
a     prise                                 1.15      3.25     1.        1.25      2.25      1.15      2.25     1.15      3.25      1.15      2.25      1.15     1.15      1.15      1.15      1.15     1.15      1.15      1.15     1.15
Cut   sti                                  76271    3425   122229       I34I    42925    55313    4499    4174           54402    44645    49903    54204    5720    45176    54753    474    45352    5U51    46294    469
MeS BEA                                   71771    34115   13341    01020    4943  41210.5  51611.5  53311.5  04207.5  5123.5  55226.5  59990.5  03547.5  569.5   09.5  52015.5  56413.5  U097.5  51235.5  52627.5
1Tl E1U. AJIATES YIJHl51A1II            341042      4946   257432   122942   2325711       29.5  9117.5 101117.5 1146O9.5  te2u1.5 1S131.5  1419.5 320907.5  9t377.5 3s340.5  99249.5  95941.5 319346.5  97521.5  911.5
cm?U inI1152  46                     0      Io        3069    2044      41327     7101      115992   1229963   142 M41I   19722   203406   20642   11450   194532   191450    6662   I632   263211   3079   In79S5
T$ ECu1i s5                              141441    002t   211079   1010"    20356  20521.5 22700.5 24309.5 2 1425.5 209969.5 3003.5 3140  5311427.5 290909.5, 3 9.5 21790.5 21399.5 3S025.5 273211.5 275631.5
IL E147243    41121  -22104                                             534    1459   99024.5 214135.5   351.  30337.5  U1554.5 3194.5 312726.5 356103.5 370275.5 356319.5 3021.5 3506.5 32s .5 342227.5 335137.5
I1n                        I                 13        lb        17        3         19        20       23        22        23        24        25       24        27        2        29        so        31        32       33        34
ET M      T  Y.K                       500369.1 421303.2 302179.0 305742.3 255221.9 234443.0 17017.0 13537 15092.75 15950.74 51017.54 21784.49  94.409 n156.92 -24570.5 -36492.3 -51307.4 -6574.& -72U36.3 n                       16111.
1IM5E 0E 5SiSLIIE
I mgmtati. dng cuts                 20   179329    3I3S   3334         204970   244307   24420   212497   294095   337722   3477   310245   371530   342101   349                  3413     345503   33697        3151    333730   X36l
I ruwtlim ikaui i                  -20      2756     5524    40020    94271   2104   244217   35117   422910   471W               520035   55S10    54970   541745   53746   525654   53107   53427   502SU    4              9   41135
ILK                                     -17571   -1010   -292165  -11079     -01612    -2349         620    120652   134147   17043   21157I  172340   Is2944   354657   15145    172515   112030   239737  121139   356I7
TU                         1                   1        2         3         4         5                   7                  9        16 3t              22        33        34        Is       20        27        Is        39       2       p-
UT NowI  3AI                           212029. 9154.0  446n .0 03529. s4411.1 137.1 u214 .7 I2324.9 22U64.40420.5e 1614.74 -34957.3 -74247.5 -207919. -2367. -20423. -252444. -203". -225027. -2209.



611A ARICUILUR PMtiN C CE
CIVOIMIE PIICIIN AIULE SIJWS
ECUINIC   S 1A II/ MtTS        I EUAIPJE
Without fertilizer/Sans engrains
mEiam urn
0        1         2        3         4         5        4         7        3         9        I0      12         12       13        14       I1       13         17       le        19       N
ENEFICES IOOTAU           0         0      1513     54494    3827     65935   171n03   243712   353819   431051   464942   117610   549172   5410#2   53504    525204   517442   50912   502256   49461    47536   480311
TLLISATI36N
CUMS ECUIOUEI                            13874    40929   241480   12144   124343 109314.5  91104.5  94156.1 207593.5  92334.5  96422.5 101121.5 1134177.5  90410. 108204.5  93010.5   0023.5 22219.5  91249.5  92203.1
I Ewlius                                   0.44 01 44         0.44     0.44      0.44      0. 44    0.44      0.44     0.44      0.4       0.44     0.44      0.44     0.44      0.44     0.44      0.44     0.44      0.44      0.44
Cut  eviuis wu3arllaiatuon                41105    24804   104339    53440    14720    48093    40064    41737    47304    4014    43394    47236    49930    3973                  3    40925    3940    49242    4025          M11
bad.. price                               1215      3.2       115 .1    1.2      1.15      2.25      2.55     1.15      1.15     2.25      1        115  .15  2.25    1315       2.15      3.15     1.15 ..L5          2.25      3.31
Calt  iuste                               70272    30325   122290       142l    42923    55313    44099    47993    14402   4u445    49903    14206    57420    45143    54753    47044    45552    5452    4.294    44099
COWlS LOCAUI                              77771    34115   31341    48020    4943  421212.5  51012.5  53219.5  40207.5  51223.5  55223.5  19990.1  43547.5  5429.5  0595.5  520e5.5  50413.5  42691.5  51235.5  51017.5
CUTI ECO. AJUSIES YULWAISATION           14042    44940   251431   122941   132571 112529.5  97117.5 10111735 112409.1  932483.  105131.5 114196.5 120947.5  96377.5 115343.5  9249.5  95961.5 11934.5  971529.5  97116.5
OUT [CO I26TR7 IS #1 8              0      1024     233    12422      2506    46367    41372    31599    94303   115594   123379   130902   I2397    123014   122529   123337   121513   119720   117947               4209   11334492
CNISI EC0WiOI8S                          149104    47338   271157   155281   230938 177903.5  133104.5 297420.5 230203.5 221347.5 234033.5 243137.5 240031.5 221566.5 2345.1 22U02. 5 22563.5 231295.S  221738.1  211301.5
LKM                                     21471593   -1444  -233534   -49352    -7135  10690.5 170752.5 233630.5 21738.5 29142.15 3131238.5 297194.  215032.5 30337.5 273715.5 289119.5 21a572.5 257523. 1273791.5 25702.5
TNI                        I                 125     12         37        33        9        20       23        22       23        24        25       26        27       23        29       30        31        32       33        34
NET PRESET VALUE                      305133.6 24399. 1999404.5 155722.5 117204,5  3213.115 53133.97 2SO 5 .31380.355 -17584.2 -35940.0 -12223.3 -6615.. -79348.9 -906 .7 -200553. -120342. -12701. -12S3S. -1229.
AULISE K S116512LITE
I *gmtatian des couts              20  121927    3030    324228   334344   217126   213432   219728   234905   274244   245977   233240   291261   297651   230    2163   244719    251623   234755   25446    253930
I raKtim  trAslfcam               -20      1210     439      30413    U1748   139042   199034   213017   344131    387954   4140113   43338   432310   426451   420343   413954   407326   401304   39s6s   390029   3U424t
aUm                                     -177717   -76411  -292   -2117596   -73064   -94443    43359   107934   111710   2432   356093   141049   123133   154233   1275131   130321  34293   23100   133543   130319
TEI                        2I2                         2         3         4        5         4        7                           ts 176                                                              1        IS      129       N              | x-
Lr Em     I VALUE                    133510.3 655 .19 50199.6 379355.3 271114.  10410.1 10246.5 3513.24 -39716.2 -47491.7 -101433. -143049. -172419. -19729. -211293. -235971. -250735. -23129. -213340. -232720.                             1 -   CD



RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION COMPONENT
COMPOSANTE PRODUCTION AGRICOLE GITARAMA
Economic Analysis - Sensitivity at Expected Adoption Rate
Analyse Economigue - Sensibilit6 au Taux d'Adaption
Years/Annees
0         1        2         3         4         5                                      I 1  3  9  it      It       12        13        14        15       15        17        so        19        20
IIMFICEt lOltUI            0         0      21"       90      51013   117114   Ik5124   203sl   21UI3  2t331   29490t   303449   290910   294573   290205   2919   2il690   271711   21344    249414   265410   211471
IILIMSSAIIOI
111  ICWISiES                             536814    40959   241610   12144   12433 109314.5  91104.5  95655 101513.5  9211t.5    622.55 10712.5 5113477.5  90410.5 101204.5  93010.5  9002J.5 511959.5  91491.5  11103.5
a 4vius                                    0.44      0.44      0.44      0.44      0.44      0.44     0.44      0.44      0.44      0.44      0.44     0.44      0.44      0.44      0.44      0.44     0 44      0.44      0.44      0.44
cut deises vulliuatioa                    6105    26304   104339    53444    54120    4309            4008      41137    41o       4U54      433U 4    4153     49930    39781    47411    40925    39450    49242    40254    406
$WCo*price                                 1515    1515         1.15     5.55    1515        1.55      l.5S  .15           5.55     1.55      1.15      5.55 l..5          5.55      5.S5      1.15      1.15      5.I5     1.15      5.I5
Celt  jusute                               70271    30825   12290    41441    42920    55313   4u0             4799      54402    4445    4903    54206    51420    45741    54753    41044    45552    5455    4294                 4099
COIS LOCAUi                              77717     34115   135341    48020    69643  41214.5  51015.5  53119.5  40207.5  51523.5  55228.5  51990.5  4557.5  50279.5  40595.5  5205.5  50413.5  424Y7.5  51235.5  51017.5
Cillt ECO. AJUSTEI  MWRISAION            143042       9U40   257351   12941   132571 II429.5  97111.5 101117.5 5I409.5  9248.5 105131.5  14194.5 120`11.5  94377.5 115346.5  9549.5  95945.5 119341.5  97529.5  91115.5
CU! L[   IKTRCO  S loW               0      13JS      39    20448    41327    53245    59321    71973    71523    5340             88430      1174    35383    84414   U31          321S3    U0911    79721      7554    7737    7242                     1
MUIl ECOIIOIII                           149441    4021   213019   11060U   156532 115857. 5175095.55 119405191013.5 15674135 192305.5 200071.5 2055115.  179744.5  97419.5 l05.5 17593.5 51902.5 51749i.5 173353.
IER                                     -141243   -45521  -2270U    -5S3094   -20704  21712.5  91237. 5 10696.5  94892.5 115720.5 51044.5  9493.5  14423.5 104171.5  84210.5  91452.5  97152.5  71511.5  90493.5  6119.5
rimU                       I                  10       11        12        IS        14        15        It        17       I3        19        20        21       22        23        24        25        24       21        29        29
MOI  ESEr VALLIE                      15405.54 -16512.8 -45074.3 -49715.9 -9045.3 -509231. -125054. -136417. -150259. -150224. -543733. -175945. -132061. -157220. -191504. -19503. -197911. -2020. -20                        . -20S5.
I d euplaakitalra  imteialifi.               1.0      2.1       9.5      55.3      17.3      11.6      20.2      19.9      9.9      59.3      59.0      11.7      13.4     53.2      17.9      I1.4      17.4      17.1    15.9    15.
MYtE X SNSIIIILITE
I AU16tatirm de$ couts              20   179329    35435   333495   204970   222993   211029   210115   215554    231422   224096   230717   240095   24449              21553   236915   214079   210632   237433   NMt0    208(03
I reductiae hiefucal               -20      1758     5524    4U05       94151  532101   542354   211044   230470   235921   242715   239534   235              232154   226133   225352   222014   215757   215531   212326   20912
MUK                                     -111571   -71109  -29265  -110199   -90 791   -4173            25       5505    -1701    1671          4147    -4431   -14534    13040   -I523         5935      1925   -21ff2      2421      1152
1T11                       1                   1         2         3        4         J         4         I         3         9        10       51        la        13        14        5        15       151         3        19       20
Ol 9       T YMM                       -152445. -73507. -11059. -495553. -41 2599. -45 4872. -43791. -.42150. -06115. -5955. -765. -54069. -54950. -531114. -524854.   504A. -5054                          . -4909". -430112. -4u9n9.               .  co



-80-                                   Annex9
Table i
RWANDA                                 Page  I
FARM BUDSETSI BUDGETS D'EXPLOITATIDN
MODEL Nil NODELE Ni ( AREA LESS THAN 0.4 HA WITHOUT LIVESTOCK AND WOOD)
MODELE Nl (SUPERFICIE INFERIEURE A 0.4 HA, SANS ELEVAGE NI BOIS)
With fertilizer/Avec engrais
Without project/            With project (YIOi/
Sans Projet                 Avec Projet (AIOJ
Production/         kg/farm  value               kg/fare   value
Production                    IRF)                          (RF)
Coffee                    17      1900                   20     2376
Bananas                 1400    14080                  1620    16280
Cassava                  240      2400                  300     3000
Beans                     81      2025                  134     3330
Soya                      27       945                   45     1575
Sorghum                   32       640                  104     2080
Maize                      a        84                   39      389
Suet potatoes            183       913                  348     1738
Others                            13000                         2200
Livestock
Trees                                                           1600
Total value of production/
Valeur totale de la
production                      24867                          34576
1 increase       39
Total cost/
Cout total                         910                          3956
Net value of production/
valeur nette de la
production                      23949                          30620
Cash income/
Revene eonetaire                 10799                         15282
Z of value of production            43 1                          44 1
Cash cost/
Cout monetaire                     600                          3679
Net cash incoue/
Revenu  onetaire net             10199                         11603
Incremental net value of production/
Valeur supplementaire nette
de la production                                                6671
I without project/sans projet                                     28 1
Incremental c4h inconet
Revenu mo'tzaire suppleuentaire                                 1404
2  ntihout project/sans projet                                     14 Z



-81-                                  Annex 9
Table 1
RWANDA                                  Page  2
FARM BUDGETS/ BUDGETS D'EXPLOITATION
NODEL Nl/ NODELE NI I AREA LESS THAN 0.4 HA WITHOUT LIVESTOCK NOR WOODI
NODELE Ni CSUPERFIEIE INFERIEURE A 0.4 HA, SAKS ELEVAGE NI DaIS)
Without fertilizer/ Sans engrais
Without project/            With project CYIO)/
Sans Projet                 Avec Projet (AIO)
Production/        kg/farm  Value               kg/fare   Value
Production                   CRFI                          IRFI
Coffee                   17      lq90                   20     2376
Bananas                1408    14080                  1628    162B0
Cassava                 240      2400                  300     3000
Deans                    81      2025                  134     3338
Soya                     27       945                   32     1103
Sorghum                  32       640                   40      800
maize                     8        84                   13      129
Suet potatoes           183       913                  348     1739
Others                           1800                          2200
Livestock
Trees                                                          1600
Total value of production/
Yaleur totale de la
production                      24867                         32564
1 increase       31
Total cost)
Cout total                        918                          2937
Net value of production!
Valeur nette de la
production                      23949                         29727
Cash income/
Revenu monetaire                10799                         14783
1 of value of production           43 1                          45 1
Cash cost/
Cout monetaire                    600                          2560
Net cash income)
Revenu uonetaire net            10199                         12223
Incremental net value of production/
Valeur supplementaire nette
de la production                                               5778
2 without project/sans projet                                    24 1
Incremental cash income)
Reven. monetaire supplemmntaire                                2024
2 without project/sans projet                                    20 Z



-82 -
-  --                          ~~~~Annex 9
Table 2
RWANDA                                     Page  I
FARM BUD0ETSi BUDGETS D1EZPLOITATIOI
MODEL N2V tODELE H2 ( AREA LESS THAN 0.4 HA WITH LIVESTOCK AND 1OM)9
MODELE N2 tSUPERFICIE INFERIEURE A 0.4 H, AYE ELEVAGE ET 30IS)
With fertilizer/ AvKc mgrais
Without project/           With project IGlOI/
Sans Projet                Avec Projet (AIO)
Production/        kg/fare  Value                kg/farm   Value
Production                   IRFI                           (RF)
Coffee                    17     1980                   20      2376
Bananas                 1610    16104                 1030    18304
Cassava                  240     2400                  300      3000
Beans                     95     2381                  149     3694
Soya                      27      945                   45      1575
Sorghum                   32      640                  104     2080
Maize                      9       95                   40      400
Suet potatoes           242      1210                  407     2035
Others                           2000                          2400
Livestock                        1800                           2700
Trees                                                          2000
Total value of production/
Valeur totale de la
production                      29555                         40564
2 increase       37
Total cost/
Cout total                       1OB                          4096
Net value of production/
Valeur nette de la
production                      28537                         36478
Cash income/
Revenu monetaire                146b8                         1919
Z of value of production           50 X                          47 2
Cash cost/
Cout sonetaire                    700                          3909
Net cash income!
Revenu monetaire net            14168                         1539
Incremental net value of production!
Valeur suppleoentaire nette
de la production                                               7941
I without project/sans projet                                    29 2
Incremental cash income/
Raven. mnetaire suppleentaire                                  1221
2 without project/sans projet                                     9 2



- 83 -
Annex 9
Table 2
RWANIDA                                    Page  2
FARM BUDGETS! BUD6ETS D'EXPLOITATION
MODEL N21 MODELE N2 ( AREA LESS THAN 0.4 HA WITH LUVESTOCK AND MOOD)
MODELE N2 (SUPERFICIE INFERIEURE A 0.4 HA, AVEC ELEVAGE ET 30IS3
Without fertilizer/ Sans engrais
Without project/            Mith project (Y10/
Sans Projet                 Avec Projet (AlOI
Production!        kg/farm  Value               kq/far.   Value
Production                   (RFI                           (RF)
Coffee                    17     1980                   20     2376
Bananas                 1610    16104                 1830    18304
Cassava                 240      2400                  300     3000
Deans                     95     2391                  148      3694
Soya                      27      945                   32      1103
Sorghum                   32      640                   40      900
Maize                      9       95                   14       140
SUet potataes           242      1210                  407     2035
Others                           2000                          2400
Livestock                        1800                           2700
Trees                                                          2000
Total value of production!
Valeur totale de la
production                      29555                         38552
Z increase       30
Total cost/
tout total                       1018                          2967
Net value of production/
Valeur nette de la
production                      29537                         35595
Cash income/
Revenu monetaire                14908                         18532
Z of value of production           50 2                          48 2
Cash cost/
Cout nonetaire                    700                          2650
Net cash income/
Revenu eonetaire net            14208                         15892
Incremental net value of production!
Valeur supplementaire nette
de Ia production                                               7049
2 without project/sans projet                                    25 2
Incremental cash income/
Reveni monetaire suppl emntaire                                1674
I without project/sans projet                                    12 1



- 84 -
Annex 9
Table  3
R WANMDA                                    Page  1
FARM BUDGETSJ BUDGETS D'EXPLOITATION
MODEL N3/ MODELE N3 C AREA BETWEEN  0.4 HA  AND 0.7 HA )  ITHOUT LIVESTOCK AND MOOD)
MODELE N3 (SUPERFICIE ENTRE 0.4 HA ET 0.7HA , SANS ELEVAGE Nl BOIS)
With fertilizer/ avec engrais
Without project/            With project (Y10)1
Sans Projet                 Avec Projet (410D
Production/        kg/fare  " lue                kgJfara   Value
Production                    CRF)                          CRF)
Coffee                    34      4020                   40     4824
Bananas                 1664    16640                 1924    19240
Cassava                  320      3200                 400      4000
Beans                    162     4050                  383      9568
Soya                      38      1344                  64      2240
Sorghum                  104      2080                 338      6760
Maize                     20       200                   93      928
Smet potatoes            365      1826                 695      3476
Others                            2800                          3400
Livestock                                                          0
Trees                                                           2800
Total value of production/
Yaleur totale de la
production                      36160                          57236
Z increase       59
Total cost/
Cout total                        1554                          0287
Net value of productionl
Valeur nette de la
production                      34606                          40949
Cash incomel
Revenu monetaire                 17479                         26345
Z of value of production            48 1                          46 7
Cash cost/
Cout monetaire                     950                          75B5
Net cash incoue/
Revene monetaire net            16529                          18760
Incresental net value of production/
valeur supplementaire nette
de la production                                               14343
I without project/sans projet                                     41 1
Incremental cash income/
Revenu monotaire suppleumntaire                                 2231
1 mithout project/sans projet                                     13 2



- 85 -                                   Annex 9
RWANXDA -                                 Table  3
R ---DA                              Page   2
FARM BUDGETSl BUDGETS D'EXPLOITATION
MODEL N3/ NODELE N3 ( AREA BETWEEN 0.4 HA AND 0.7 HA ) WITHOUT LIvESTOCK AND WOODI
NODELE N3 (SUPERFICIE ENTRE 0.4 HA ET 0.7HA , SANS ELEVAGE NI 101S)
Withaut fertilizer/ Sans engrais
Without project/            With project (Y10I
Sans Projet                 Avec Projet IAIO)
Production/        kg/farm  Value                kg/farm   Value
Production                    (RF)                          (RF)
Coffee                    34      4020                   40     4824
Bananas                 ;L64    16640                  1924    19240
Cassava                  320      3200                  400     4000
Beans                    162      4050                  383     9568
Soya                      38      1344                   45     1568
Sorghum                  104     2080                   130     2600
Maize                     20       200                   31      308
Suet potatoes             82      1826                  695     3476
Others                           2800                           3400
Livestock                                                          0
Trees                                                           2800
Total value of production/
Yaleur totale de la
production                      36160                          51784
1 increase       43
Total cost/
Cout total                        1554                          5641
Net value of production/
Valeur nette de la
production                       34606                         46143
Cash income/
Revenu monetaire                 17535                         24447
1 of value of production            48 1                          47 1
Cash cost/
Coot *onetaire                    950                           4939
Net cash income/
Revenu monetaire net            16585                          19508
Incremental net valu. of production/
Yaleur supplementaire nette
de la production                                               11537
1 without project/sans projet                                     33 1
Incremental cash income/
Revenu monetaire suppl}nentaire                                 2923
Z without project/sans projet                                     lB 1



- 86 -
Annex 9
Table 4
Page  1
RWANDA
FAR BUDGETS/ BUDGETS D EXPLOITATION
FAIN NODEL N4 ( AREA DETNEEN  0.4 PA  AN  0.7 HA I NITH LIvESTOCK AND IPlD)
NODELE D'EXPLOITAT[ON 114 lSUPERFICIE ENTRE 0.4 HAa Et 0.7NA , AVEC ELEVA6E ET BOIS)
With fertilizer) avc ulgrais
Without project/          With proijct (YI0)
Sans Projet               Av c Projet IAIO)
Production/       kg/fare  Value              kg/farm   Value
Production                 IRF)                         (RF)
Coffee                  34     4020                  40     4824
Bananas               1903    1932                 2163    21632
Cassava                320     3200                 400     4000
Beans                  191     4763                 424    10589
Soya                    38     1344                  64    2240
Sorghum                104     2080                 338     6760
Haize                   23      226                  95      955
S-et potatoes          484     2420                 814     4070
Others                         3000                         4200
Livestock                      3600                        17i v
Trees                          2000                         4800
lotal value of production/
valeur totale de la
production                    45685                        76670
2 increase      69
Total cost/
Coot total                     2104                        16387
Net value of production/
Valeur nette de la
production                    43581                        60293
Cash incomel
Revenu metaire                23321                        40571
2 of value of production         511                          53 I
Cash cost/
Coot moetaire                  1500                        15s5
Net cash income
Revenu monetaire net          21821                        24986
Incremental nit value of production/
Valeur suppleentaire nette
de la production                                           16702
2 without project/-ans projet                                 38 2
Incremental cash income/
Rive    ouetaire supplmstaire                               30
I without projectlsaus projet                                 14 2



-87                                       Annex 9
Table 4
RW{ANDDA                                  Page   2
FARE BUDETS/ WUOTS D1EKPLOITATIOK
FARE MODEL N4 ( AREA ETIEEN  0.4 HA  PAD 0.7 N) I dlTH LIVESTOCK AND WOOD)
NODELE D'EXPLOITATION 4 (SUPERFICIE ENTRE 0.4 HA ET O.7H , AVEC ELEVAGE ET E015)
& Without fertilizer/ sans engrais
Nithowt project/          With project (Y1OJ/
Sans Projet               Avc Projet (A10)
Production/       kg/fari  Value              kg/far.   Value
Production                  (RF)                         (RFI
Coffee                  34      4020                  40     4824
Bananas               1903    19032                 2163    21632
Cassava                320      3200                 400     4000
Beans                  191      4763                 424    10589
Soya                    39      1344                  45     1569
Sorghum                104      2080                 130     2600
Maize                   23       226                  33      m
Suet potatoes          484      2420                 814     4070
Others                          3000                         4200
Livestock                       3600                        12600
Trees                           2000                         4800
Total value of production/
Valiur totale de Ia
production                     45605                        71218
Z increase      56
Total cost/
Lout total                      2104                        13719
Net value of production/
Valeur nette de la
production                     43581                        57499
Cash incoue/
Revenu monetaire               23321                        3B049
I of value of production          51 Z                         53 1
Cash cost/
Cout naetaire                   1500                        13017
Net cash income/
Revenu bonetaire net           21821                        25032
Incrmental not value of production/
Vale,r supplueuntaire nette
de la production                                            13918
Z without project/sans projet                                  32 Z
Incremental cash incame/
Reven manetaire suppleuntaire                                3211
1 uithout project/sans projet                                  15 Z



88                                    nnezx 9
Table 5
RWANDA                                  Page  I
FARR MIDGETS) BUDUETS D'EXPLOITATIOI
FAN  NDM  N5 ( AEI  ETU11N  0.7 H   AND 1.0 I  A) WITH LIVESTOC   AND MOOD)
NODELE O'EIPLOITATION N5 (SUPERFICIE ENTRE 0.7 Ma ET 1.0 HA , AVEC ELEVAGE Et BOIS)
lith fertilizer/ avec engrais
Mithout projectl          lith projct (YlO)I
Sans Projet                Avec Projut 0A10)
Production)       kg/farm  Value              kglf are   Value
Production                 (RFD                         (RF)
Coffee                  55     6600                  66     7920
Bananas               1976    19764                2246    22464
Cassava                440     4400                 550     5500
Beans                  279     6995                 566    14159
Soya                    54      1990                 90     3150
Sorqhum                169     3360                 54     10920
Naize                   33      329                 139     1386
Suet potatoes          616     3090                1036     5180
Others                         4000                         460
Livestock                      9000                        19000
Tres                           3200                         5600
Total vanlo of production/
Valeur totale de la
proJuction                    62608                        98879
' increase      59
Total cost/
Cout total                     2982                        20083
Net value of productionl
Valeur nette de la
production                    59726                        78796
Cash incoue/
Revenu  onetaire              33513                        54951
l of value of production         54 2                         56 Z
Cash cost/
Cout nonetaire                 2000                        19137
Net cash incouel
Revenu bonetaire net          31513                        35814
Incremntal net value of production/
Yalaur suppleuentaire nette
de la production                                           19070
2 without project/sans projet                                 32 l
Increentai cash incoml
Reum  m taire supp]_mtairr                                  4301
2 without project/sans projut                                 14 I



- 89 -
Annex 9
Table 5
Page 2
RWANDA
FARM IUDIETS/ BUD6ETS DIEXILOITATIE
FN INODL I5S I AREA  IIEEN  0.7 NA  ID 1.0 N  ) UITH LIVESTOCKU ID UOD)
MODELE D'EXPLOITATII IIS  (SiRFICIE EIIWRE 0.7 HA ET 1.0 HA , AVEC ELEVAE ET 3019S
Mithout fertilizer/ sans ugrais
lithout project/          lith project (110)/
Suns Projet              Abc Projet (*1O)
Production/      kg/fari Value              kgfar.  Valu
Production                 lRF)                       (RFI
Coffee                 55    6600                  66    7920
Bananas               1976    19764              2246    22464
Cassava               440     4400                550    5500
Beans                 279    6985                 566    14159
Soya                   54     1990                 63    2205
Sorghum               169    3360                 210    4200
Maize                  33      329                 49      496
SUet potatoes         616    3080                1036    5180
Others                        4000                        4600
Livestock                      000                       19000
Trees                         3200                        5600
Total value of production/
Valeur totale de la
production                   62609                       90314
Z increase     44
Total cost/
Cout total                    2982                       15973
Net value of productionl
Yaleur nette de la
production                   59726                       74341
Cash incoue/
Revenl anetaire              33513                       520
I of value of production        54 2                        59 Z
Cash cost/
Cout monetaire                2000                       15027
Net cash income/
Remn  mooetaire net          31513                       37054
Increwntal net value of production/
Yaleur supplementaire nette
de la production                                         '4615
Z without project/sans projet                               24 Z
Incremental cash incom/
Revm  mnetaire sappleuentaire                             5541
2 without prfjKct/sans projet                               II 2



90 -                                   Annex 9
Table 6
Page 1
RWANDA
FARM D11DGETS/ BUDGES D'EXPLUITATION
FARN NMODE N6 ( AREA NM   THAN I NA I WITH LIVESTOCK AID HD)
NODELE YEXPLOITATION Nb (SUPERFICIE SUPERIEURE A I NA , AEC ELEVAGE ET DaIs)
With fertilizerl avnc engrais
hithout projeKt/          With project (YVo0/
Sans Projet               Avec Proiet CAlO)
Production)       kg/fare  Ylel                kg/farm   Yalue
Production                  (RF)                          IRF)
Coffee                   65     7800                  78      9360
Dananas                2269    22692                2579    25792
Cassava                 520     5200                 650      6500
Beans                   356     8890                 704    17607
Soya                     66     2310                 110     3850
Sorghum                 216     4320                 702    14040
Maize                    39      387                 163      1632
Suet potatoes           836     4180                1406     7030
Others                          4500                          50
Livestock                       9000                         IB000
Trees                           6000                         *800
Total value of productionl
Valeur totale de la
production                     75279                       119111
I increase      57
Total cost/
Lout total                      3313                        22875
Net value of production/
Valeur nette de la
production                     71966                        95236
Cash incomel
Revenu bonetaire               41271                        70851
1 of value of production          55 1                         60 I
Cash cost/
Lout monetaire                  2200                        21703
Net cash income/
Revenu monetaire net           39071                        49148
Incremental net value of production/
Valeur suppleseotaire nette
de la production                                            23270
2 without project/sans projet                                  32 2
Incremental cash income)
Rmne montaire supplementaire                                 10077
I without project/sans projet                                  26 I



-  91  -                                 liex-
91                         ~~~~~Annex  9
Table  6
Page 2
RWANDA
FARE BUDGETS) BUDGETS D'EIPLDITATION
FARM NODEL Nb I AREA MORE THAM 1 HA 1 VITH LIVESTOCK AND OOD)
NODELE D'EXPLOITATION N6 (SUPERFICIE SUPERIEURE A I HA , VEC ELEYAGE ET BOIS)
Without fertilizer/ sans engrais
hithout project/           With project (MiOl)
Sans Projet                Avec Projet (110)
Production/        kg/far.  Yalue               kg/farm   Yalue
Production                   (RF                          (IRFJ
Coffee                   65      7900                  79     q360
Bananas                2269    22692                 2579    25792
Cassava                 520      5200                 650     6500
leans                   356      8090                 704    17607
Soya                     66      2310                  77     2695
Sorghmu                 216      4320                 270     5400
maize                    39       387                  57      572
Suet potatoes           836      4190                1406     7030
Others                           4500                         5500
Livestock                        9000                        18000
Trees                            6000                         80OO
Total value of production/
Valeur totale de la
production                     75279                        107256
; increase      42
Total cost/
Lout total                       3313                        17711
Net value of production!
Valeur nette de la
production                     71966                         89S45
Cash income/
Revenu uonetaire               41271                         65604
1 of value of production           55 1                         61 Z
Cash cost)
Cout monetaire                  2200                         21703
Net cash incomel
Revenu monetaire net           39071                         43901
Incremental net value of production/
valeur supplementaire nette
de la production                                             17579
1 without project/sans projet                                   24 Z
Incremental cash incroe/
Remnu  onetaire supplementaire                                48M0
1 without projectisans projet                                    .2 1



utn       im.          49411        0tIl         w1                               a   lsoW                  *   e      mg       I     , "t       '        i                 'tl u                                              ti l                                ru
o~~~U-e0~~                0                        0                                                   0                 0                                                 0                    0                         000                                           ni   I
miS                  p             f           of                       "                                                   911 (Atl                               ml       0          0                    0                             0001 eIO O1a m
HP,gg F19                         01 Ut-                    001          fit                  9t 91  919                                                                               til009               0          or/ W                 ro                             ,A9U
P1t91I                        901 t1                   II          Ail 511                             t99Ilt                         II54/                            a1         9f        of         Is        I1  GM 0I  @/                                 b4tl94  
111       lilt        fill          Sil          9141         914       t41         *I Illicit   1                 /91         913 491                  491      @1        "i        et9 0                III1O9           to atil                             UIefo
@41  4           1911          III,         lot         III                  19         Ill 099l  911i fi                                         tilt       ml        @111       9         IV        [Illo            of0  I  1909@                          *hq
9   nz1                          ilIl        "4I  UU                           got                            Ott U1         tit 91o                1  *u1 *9            0U9   9a    9t                 111 OU          1i etuo                                Opp"
ff91      99"          Om            Mg1          "1         "I                   oil                                                                  o wl       e1        001       el         00         0ll Om             O1o0                             15900
m                      "St           ml    1 91              tit                      11             lUl ecs9                            11   I             qjII I 0    s         @4  01              II   0110/                       1
..   ... ............. ........... . ............................................... ......................... ................................... )1....... .......... . .. .. ._........ ... .......... ............. . .
_311 993          MI1N     tollI'AIA         mill  lIm   @11          91e1               *3,          flUfiJl             lnl ill       68)050J1l9t9           MA"03l^ng IY      "'IWA          t4utllOWJ4         tn1"          at*i,491
I1_l2'tI0l''J3'I                  *0   9113 100         1,t11     19101                04* ttti ll 011  fiM Ih   101 1                   istp     1  "0W1  9113            t   1fl1A    1IJ4',9PJJd                 JI1"lA          1914
001115 ltl        1k lJImpitr                           IN"InAI                                                         I
*n   i4" A  II el 1*10I       Al i4 051)11          100)                 11AN"U,P girl                                                                                                                   loreA  3sa',1req  9110
195l       0 i       11          WP hO4        11101
9 S11 3  S tU"W  J'19A                                                                                                                I
'   em o                     *                                                                                   I     o                    e                    e                                                                000
0'41I                                                 0            0                                                                                               1 0             0                    0                                                                             6
0%                                     0;01          5            9           e                                                                                  '      0                    0 0  0*t'O"
0191         t                                                                                                                 t91.  VA  0V4  91 OPA  Wu4  99  00       0
Vill         oil                0     0l ' *1                                                                                              II e1 oQ             1         I'             01             0111                    1      0      1"
VolI    0                             It                                                                  i 1            1                                     o 0  0f01   0c 1          ee         1    tlo                            1111,1111
9901        31           *           111                                                                 9  191          I     30M        el         Mt0      0          "I tS  tIt Ot                       0t lo
eds  tAt  O   esg                                                         tl esx         I      sex       el         eceG      u          zn             efie       z/                                     oorl  014  ti  u    V    MD  tA
eo1l         51           o           o il                                                                 eII 9ig                         o0 91                11        01             009           A9                                     l
0(91         109          9           e19                                                                 1099           I     109       el         0109       l         191            09 Zvi      it M
uo  aeb    e  o                                                                          I   eze~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ot   01    uo    of    WC        eee".dw e                                          ys
09199        9144         8           0                                                                                   I      lo o344    9        09910                999            0099        019110                             01090
_. ...................  . ...................... ............................ ....................................... ...................................... ........ ... ........... ........................ ..... ............................................ .     . _..
0101      9109        0      MJ  0                                                                                            10 1               @101       0111      99J            005 I_t         IWO                              005513 {AtlX
All        loll "                  11111 JJI                         full1I)             15i1         ISil                 03P1  *fI             Hi   9I393J         fall       iJlllll         lol
U8112wpoi        00)11  IN)   912         in)                 aPI         oiihj               OlOiw lI       $in09859t919           94A9/PhIIfSN     D(14          supipsiNP           90P3           pIimm
it   @99 )i 100       110       19)01               PlAIN  'MingiIIJO                 ,0)0411         511091          m "    tI 13      I   10911A   leIMA01Iml2V0d              /PIIIA 911      39059
,1 II      BS'A          19103
@Xa@f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1* R59A rN0   * Iit01ii. S                                                               mq
I*  "to ovivle@10s@P lion
0-4 si  jt"t lipAofxt            Itilf Ito"  XXJ
Ii(0IPJI 9 OIN 0183)        119309  13 II    05/l
A913 *2Iep id p *I1113 N    JIIS4
I1l)M9 U(IU195d I98lI111l0 M.AtJIl



- 93 -                                    Annex 10
Table  1
Page   2
11      66 Cu.ldatatiau  an  cats
Y   wis baricot  .mm mwai.
16   tha I*  flag
45 UZ dum uplmitatmns; avm NJ&s
n mit gl ha afi**k
1n  m  i  uplnitaltimm  ctvmnt d u-pa
Jo 75 do upltati cultint in mus
fl5gJh* 10 0kg
n 3U%.the 1 t flig
/16 6466kg/la 4I6t/lsEttuchigum3
III IU    ,tgIb6 lNOJhs CtucMiqal
JR 540 ks   M         ACttulic) *S JlhihdallOta(mus,tckiqf
IU R646kg/la *NtgIlba(uraiui 100kqg/h Ismunces.tchnigus)
/1 $4    0 25f /4"kg    WOE/kg
'a5 44k 1  /kg *1C4 I 133kg
IU 110k/1 61ff/k
/117 I1gh   UlhOOg/atWmrasl * 300kg/al1ACtalicI  1004g/ha Euu      ,tKlsquaul
/N  MUg/la' Sg/lhaTbiSdaSlOOgllaUKtSlicd+2001kg/maiaoiqllOO klha (sumcus,tachaiguul
in *flga    1f/kg 417 kg/la I 130*/kg
21 1.5 1/k o 130*fl de thide  .1 kgih/ O 211k d aullic
121 20kg1tha 1 S01k
J2 2qnA  I s*kg
'a uoan. I Sulkg
r3 WIkg/la #2000kg/1hsolzui)* 1066kg/hal tkaclazgs.
125 ISorhaus .p"ivautn cultura pw-
r0 petit stfillap IsmdinI de l'unplaitatiml
M2 travail mpptuh.utair. valor.o a 100* Ij
cafm g40 aikas
lla*M 20 ju/aft
mii  cicr 20 jorsha
haim tr    I _t ir ncn/haelf
kw-o   211 jmw
*'i 10  ni/la
isi  25Miralas
patatau Ilianslla
peUt ut 1lag   flh. ie  I ampLe itinl
ID3 1kb dkctllic I 0W/kg
n  1a11is d Ts.o I usn



liat       0t11Ult ul fradatim   rIJOCt
Prajit Prudctl. 6gm.!. OiaNm
Far  "oI 1   33/    hwl(gc( Itre 0.4 et 0. I h
ibtalc duoplnitatim 10 gm rusi
164s b,Wall , tel,fi
'latet Kitts
Fetal       brne         de la
Ittedt projectillSm  *rojat                                                                                                                    Lois tauwrs                    cet al tA are   *rodactual
oIalru l                         eatalro/ meal          1.t Vito
kral    125  iul/i            PrWodectierice/   Value/   I              Ctad iS. kadlD                     laut,/               Fortiliair/  Kird                   Total    Total         Not cras    as
Sqp0icis hc         uo t      PrrodtisPri          b5enr    sv4seted/atrns  uGatr.iiici                    I itrAts             (sEaut         IeAo                 cast      cas  caut  i       .      frodesctim
(hal           (kg/hal        al         frU/It   FP          coaernfil.                   (PFI)           (FPWI                IFPl           PIFNI                (fill     IFNI         (Fil         (FA)
.... .................... ............... .*.. .. .. ....... ..... . ... .. @.. ... .......... ............. .. ........................................... ................... ....... ........ b....................................... -6-@-@w@w@@w@e
iffeK                              0.041 /1          500             14        120      4020        I0       4020       a0                                                                                              0         4020         402h
immis "                            0.240           111             (44          1 0    (1140         iV      964       a                                                                                    0           0         99m4        16440
Catuse                             0.0o0            4040            3to 0       1       3200         10       320                                                                                          a0            e         30          s320
bag                                0.30 /2           540           1I2          25      400          10       405                450 13                                                                   450            0         405         3600
hya                                0,044/5 I          00             30         35      144         100       1344I 112/4                                                                                112            0        1344         1232
SW Om                              0.130 /7          No             104         20      2000         10       200                 I t /I                                                                   2t            0         240         2054
PiAIR                              0,031 /I          145             20         10       200          0          0                 It t/                                                                   II            0            0         134
hmat 00tsteus                      0.110            3320           3u5           5      1024i        Is       f4        .                                                                                   e                      214          Ilsb
Obru s                                                                0                 2000         31       no        .                        St /21                                                   950         950            30        ISSO
Livtotl 131                                                           0                     0                    0      a0                                                                                               0            0            0
Items                                         ~          ~         ~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0                      0    a                                                     0 0          0           0                                   .
0O0                                       0 0                                                                                                    0            0            0
Istet                              1.0421                                              311iO                11531       v        4      0      ffe          0          *              o                 1554         95r        l1           34404
I                                                                                                               Valwr uttI
I                                                                                     lotal        Revwa        di (
lath PrjeKtlev    proilst                                                                                             I                                ekal e ieeri cost                   setaare  Irodectualecrmstel
tolaraes/                        otItaire/ Nell          Net value   lit vt41a      Iscrauatal
kial           tbe(dl         P,rductaopriac/   valui    I               Cash maiem           dil          lepa1sl              fmrtiliairl  Hair                   ratal      fatal       4t cas    of              of            cash
SWierfiace    Rentdeat        Prosctteaulrtu        4lur       irkatdRie oveaa iestsrelsivces              Istriate             tIal           laher                eet Aw  colt  cati cat  Ilo         Productalon *rodectia is com
(ha)           Ikelha)        (ig      fP3/ikg    Ph          coeetcalil                a  (FillN         iFNI                  (FIl           (Fll                 (P1)      (Fill        PIFNl         PIOll       IF1(1        IFlN
........................................................................................ .............. ............................................................... ..........................................................  .... ......S_.....................
callb                              0,01711           100             40        120      4324        100      432  24                                                                                       US 24,                 t5M          155                  S     u
asamia                             0.210            7400 /(0       1924         l0     19240         6       1452*0                                                                                       520         5210       41504        144             534       lo
b"e   o.uo  rzoo /lO    In         Io  InTo             *0  1lS    a                                                                  ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~520  520          520    II02             11720          2080   (04
Camue                              o."O            5040 /lI         40          10      4000         45      1000       a                                                            140                  10           li         1140 mo0                    440      (1
e.ae                               0.40/32           t9O 112        303         25      95S1         20     1(14        a        02  /14        920/20                               145                 is"         (794           117         1149         354        -2U 
hy,                                0.014 /5          100 /13         45         35      151         100      15         I        113 /15                                0 /21         14                  231          147        1421         1331            n          7          g
lwo"                               0.10 17           001w  17        130        20      2400         25        4O       I         lit   2it3l 103 /22                                (04                  299          29           351        2301           241        1U '1 o        m
als                                0.031O  I U951 /Il                31         (0       300         30         93      a          1it   4n 1120                        0 /23         is                  223         213         -120           15           -91       *120        *    3
heat   lalm                        0.110           UeO0 /24         491          5      1474         20       495       v                        231  34                             1945 4S5                                      240         341           0215        *14
fliNr                              0.00                               0                 3400        4U       (30        I                      11/24 a                                                   1100        (the 240                  2300           450        U3              i'd
Livestock                          0.0110                             0                     0         0          0      a0                                                                                               0            0           V              I         I
r.                                 0.000                              0                2100                     0      a                                                                                   0            0            0        2000          210           0
Iran                               11.4410  /Z5                                       st7z                  2^"w        ,       1l*    *       au            *         X           2"t                  s*0 20  0  I  0               00
toail                              1.11  / 25                                          53764                24441       a       1344   0       231           0                      Ml93                 442         493         (50          4A143         11531      292



-95-                                           Annex 10
Table  1
Page   4
11      6I  dhaLutatimu am caf
ni.2  cipria huicat aim hinwaiu
13 ngha I 2Sf q
14 SD t       * 35 f4/
i n    dm   mplhutai    c  masa
Hl 10  "    1 20 211 k
n  11 da  aqplitatiaa  cativat do swgo
A1 7M  di   piitatias caltivhat do ias
19 3g4b1 I 10 4tok
III  U0k/  *10m1g/ataciqama)
Ill 46/ha*IU  1a. [tadibiqml
112 540 g/ba  11k114g/ki .ellicd #15bo a a(mMIod       ga l.u_mm ,teclbaWas
113 lU4g    +101kgf!  "aaucaa,tach mia
11 56kg* 25fI .40 121M04
115 46k I MkIkg *k I 320Wk/g
/U 1m 4ba I 1304kg
Il7 101kgb. lookghAclltalcla) I00kIba(aMacR%,tacbiaM)
III 6434/W   150kg/balTao.l+aoIkg/k(actellic)l/IkWba  1amha, tahuiqu
J1i 33gha 1Iffkg .17 kM  I 13I/kg
/2  1.5 Ilka I 130J5   de t1i0Mi   &I kgM I 200f1kg dac tlic
2 smas ugrais
124 3320kgo/b  *2qkgalbiodam)* 1i0g/u  tocknigaaa)
rm5 Brficin aqilatn  cmltwa  wp
/2i petit uwtillap  loossel. de I 'alitatim
/M  traval mI_amtaira valoris  a 100 fli
afe 40 ijws/b
bammas 21 iws/ba
auiKs 20 jav/l
Iwictb 15 Jiwaa
aUa  10 iowsa/
auba  *hs/ba
mau  2ljoaWb
patata  Ujsa/ba
In amum  dae * Iplamtah  lpetit mtillag)
/33 1k d'ktellc I 201f4/kg
/14 33       I dm   I2131 f /I



laiuwn   qIcltvul Presltim  reosil
Prgjet Preitiee t L yw cele litue
Fure sa      Mb l      ufi cts mire 0.4 it 0.7 is
tle dlp4UIC{tis5 M   At awta
(betc Stail it loseS
9*5ev  aells
latal       ki lte        do     tte
Withal pri Jucilea;, projel                                                                                                                       Rena Cesvrs                     tel NCelane   predet la
calviesl "ueearel/  sell                                  ht value
rea/      125  ielI/           Fredlctiearice/   Valve/   I               (usA  asceas       ieeic           Iqell                Ferttiieli  lirW                     Total      Total        Ael tcal    of
bqerficie    leetn       i     FPredutislrue         Veltur uw srheie vlRsimv   isoeirelatencsn              Isireols             (cqrans         Ie"r                 cstl       cash cntt  Icm            pruductio
hut            kItlksIl        (ji       1I1r1      FiN        caurnofils                    (IFRI           IFNI                 51f00           5it") 115                       IFIII)        l iFI) lIIII
.................................................................................... .................. ......................................................................................... ........................  _  . ....*.........  .*
twin                                0.007  II         500              34        120      4020        5e0       4020                                                                                             0            0        4020           4020
lass                                0.240            7320            1903         10     19032         iO      11419       I                                                                                     0            0       1141i        15032
Cassava                             0.0o 0           400              320         10      3200         25        *00       i                                                                                     0            0         600           3200
hess                                0.30   11         13S             III         25      4103         IS        117                ISO aI                               450                                    0                       714           4313
lya                                 0.004 Is          400              38         35      1344        100       1344                112 /4                                                                     112            0         1344          1232
l     A                             J0.130  7         s00             104         20      2060         30        024       a         2lb                                                                        24            0          124          2054
bias                                0.0311            710              23         30        226        20         45       m          1 II                                                                      1S            0           45           255
et mI atuierss                      v.10             4400             414          5      2420         20        464                                                                                             0            0          404          2420
oilers                                                                  0                 3000          33       990       a1300 120                                                                          I300        5300          -310          5700
LatetKdi  35I                                                           0                 300          il       2U0        a                        200 /27                                                   200          200         200            3400
tres                                                                    0                 2000          0          0      a                                                                                     0             0            I         2000
v                    0                     0      a0                                                                                                 0            0              0                                     '0
setal                               5.042 125                                            ISMS                 23321                 I0     0       1550          0         0               0                 2144         55401       21521         41410 1s
td erbttt
lTotal                                                                                              lense        h  Ib
kath Project/cK  pro et                                                                   I                                                       htem dOeNtr                    cset          ineteire  productcal/ tocreoust4
I                                                       salauacol                       tc lairvl  cel/    M      Not valoe   hit  value   ltrsttl
rue/           valid/          Productalvicel   Veoel/   I                Clus   asre     a ISudfi           Ipetsl                Fertilicnl    ared                   total      Tetal          t cgun    of             of           ch
psuliet   IOsasnst    Prsectinoria                  *al5uv    uroetv ilellvatta  metairebeaieaes             lirats                aebruas        S ler                cost      taci cost  aecee           proacctioa  prodctiom  suc_
1thu           1k/c^al         till      FE/kgI   IR              ercl  ite             I sliM;            Iflt                  laE)           11611                (Fill      IF"l         IfniS         iii.          iFEI)        (ifil)
........................................... ......................................... ................. .......... ...... ..... .......................... . ........................................ _......... ... .. I............. .... ........ ....... _....................
aoffee                              0.047 rl          000              40        120      4024        100       4621                                                                     2Ul                  26U          268         4154           4SS           5343 Su
Susasa                              0.200            6320 I10        2103         50     21632         00      12179 9                                                                   520                  520          520        53459         25112          2080      540
tavseva                             0.080            5000 oil         400         to      4000         415       600                                                                      00                   300     O                5 I  1640     3640          440         40
bas                                 0.410 /2            s  112        424         25     10589         30       3111                 262  /114      92  /20                              45                 2191         5190         5I30           1I59         N1i1        U6
Ilya                                0.0.4 /5         100 113           At4        31      2240        l00       2240       a         7 IIS                                00W /25         44                  I71           117        5453           1343          131       15
blagst                              v.130 /7         2000 ISI         3S          20      01U0         t0       2704       a        50  /15          20 /33             5025 /22         104                 1924         1124          i'O           4634         2112        156  IV   I-
hile                                0.0315/6         30    III         95         50       955         30        284       a         7/59            0  120              403 /23         7i                   420          45          *329            329          III 556               g
sIt  itcst                          0.6110           1400 /24         614          5      4070         30        22    1                            215 /34                              I"                   453          413                        357          1237        324   ma H
fIO er                                                                  0                 4200         45       Ilo        a                        1300 /24                                                 5300         5300          SO           2900         1200        96         Bp
LiMtKk /32                                                              0                12o0          75       9450                                90o /20                             1000 /30            1700           1900         5150          4700         1300      51153
Irm                                                                     0                 4*            0          0      a0                                                                                                  0            o          4000                       e 30
0                    0                     0                                                 I a                                                                                 0 O                     0
fetel                               1.112  /25                                            747                 40511       1        124    0       343            0      2068           9I7                  54387        1556         247             026        150702       m6



-97-                                             Annex 10
~--                                        Table  2
Page   2
/1       601 dmplmitatims avac cafe
n2 p c.pis he.ast am  hmaraie
/3 0kbg/a 0 25f4/k
/4 50 kllla 0 35 f/kg
3  22mZ dam aploztatimms avc saw
/4 10 i,4a k     20  f/ig
17 751 dam plpitatis cmltiwiat dua mug?.
78   ida mplaitatim    caltivat doa on
/9 3kg/ha I 10 f/kg
110 7124g/a tJOg/lailtKczqaan)
111 400kg/a4btlOW1g/ha (tfiacha4 )
/U U5 kg/ha' 100tgfmalctellicl +lSkg/lhba(hiadalflukflN ha lsusuces,talchzg.sl
/13 5kg/lha  *1O1O1/a lssuces,thiquaml .300kglha lgrial)
/14 56kg 0 25f1&/k4kg 013f/ktg
115 40kg 0 3t/kg *10kg I 134k/kg
/lU  2Kg/ha 0 130h/k
117 NfOllkh  ItghalActlIcl. l       kg/hafteseances,taclhqueusl 1AOOkg/hualsogramls
Il 730kg/ha. 15tg/halThiodaol.10kg/haiactIlicl.Z20   g/hlalmgraasl100 kg/ha Is1e s, tachniqael
1  33ikg/ha 0 2/kg *17 kg/ha I 130f/kg
i2  1.5 I/ha l 13014/1 de thaMs .1 kg/ha 4 200f/kt dactsllac
/21 200 kg/a I SWf/kg
m 2otkn. I 50f4kg
i2  20kg/ha I 50wk
/24 4400k/hla *R2Okg/hallhuioal  10004k/lal tachaical
/23 swf iden equmvalmtes caltures pwam
2  putit outillage Iseeble de I'splaitatam)
12   isifmgatmm et sums paw dews cres 2515050SM2004fr
/ stiNas    , warm ifuattie  soins pear I vace (5001OlWO700) *4vraifagatiuo  ot seiss pow 2 chewam  (50t512.200
/29 travail wupplaesrs wvalrasa *00/j
cabs 40 jarsa
bame: 20 jawreha
sains 20 jars/ha
haricot: 15 sirs/h
saois 1 jars/a
"rn eli a
aus: 25jarsha
ptats  lljumrm/ha
/3I  sin dooms's per sa  vacs cspplaautazre: 70jouars/a  I IOflIj
11 vte de 2 cherowm    I0     46004frm
/   ints de 2 csrsam  0)100 .3 jaua howir taus In 3 am 9000/3-30. 5n0 ltram is luIlt ls  6124/14                 totul-1200f
133 1kg/ha dIctaljic 0 200k/ik
In4   /ha is Thiadm I 1314fl/g



latnaa AVicvltivl Pr,             ut gl KiI
Projalet Pridoctla  Wyale  JUira
FPu   .1  Ml    sfteValcle litre 0.4 et 0.1 hi
Imel dneIalalazl 14  gas .ws
14M letall at miel~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ilifcel
(c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vlt (alto "|f
11141       bye.          e la
lithot Project/Sias proJlt                                                                                                                     1lii imewl                     coat         rntezre  pridstllu   licriN til
IaIu    I                       nstaliarl  moil         hbi talu    hit oil"   Il         tid
Are?      IN5 figld?          Pee  ctieoric.?       Ol..io               LoC4.h macomin    kudsl           180*ut               FmftilisMl     Hire                 fatal    TaIl          hbt csk   of               if           cad
Shprflcis   bedaet    Productief'is                 Wmlu      euteie      vww  inti reheuai                IRtratm       r     .   tii         labor                Cutell    cas  coI  icSC            FSiitlIU   *t0ulit   iKM
1i,            Ik4Ikal        1(kg      FlU/kg    FE          cau&iinS                     (FAIl           (If")                IFNI4          (1311                (1I1I    1F3           IFNI         IFI          IFEI         timI
_ _ ...........................................  - ----------------------------------------------------------..... .....................................  .............. .  .. .  .. . .......... , .  .  .  . . ........... .._  .. . .s* - X -  - _- -- -- *  -  * -- @e^@  ov- w
la                  e.20                     e      1320           ITOs    1e          11112    e 1         11411       1                                          e                                                    a        11419      l 1612
CAtGuA                             0.00             440             320         10      3200         25       Noo       I                                                                                   I            I         No           1200
hbs                                0.o so0    2      433            191         25      4763         II       114       a        450 iS                                                                   450           0          714 453
Sy                                 0.01415          *oo              a          55      1544        100      1344       a        112 If                                                                   I2             0        1344          1232
k r0A                              0.li  I/7         seo            104         20      2010         54        U24                246 I2                                                                                 0          124         2054
PIlU                               0.031e I          150             23         10       224         20         45                  49 J                                                                                 0           V5          233
Sou Ipuloee                        0.110            4400            44           5      2420         20       414                                                                                           00                      414.        2420                                  1
Ulium                                                                 0                 3000         35       99                               I s"026                      1300                         uoo0                     -320          170.0 
Laetowuc   131                                                        0                 300          so      210        a                       200 121                                                   200         200         2uo            4v0                                 ao
Tern                                            0                 2~~~         ~         ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~000  0   a                                                                              0            0          20
0O0                                       0 e                                                                                        0            0            0             0
total                              1.042 125                                           450*                 25321       a        04   0 e       54O          0         0                                2104         I500        21121         owl
I                                                                                                               Plnr Btte
a                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~letAl      im    s odela
litl  PCOlKIt/4WK pcglet                                                                                                                                                      c ha   iuut  tcare   predectlea
I                                                     Ieriiuael                       ineiotel/ Alt/            at  vaIw
AIreas         Wield          ProhdcloPr,csl   Viluel   I               Cali msmci   I  kudml              Inputs#              ff tillafl  Ktied                   16111      tIotl       at cias    of              IsctNeueallecrte pi
peitile*   RIKdneat    PrveulaiPrlm                 Valiur     dtreitediiuii    gieirSeSn          s       Ibtruts              E arais         11or                clt       cash  beI  lacrn          praddtlei    Ianit         Usk  mimei
iii            li             997) it)  f     g    lb        c.uevcioFE,               a  (Yr  I   IFIFN f?  F?                                Ifn1i                (ffl?     (If")        (fEE         (
............................................................................................................ .-..-...---                                                       --        .--   ..-  .     .-.-.- ..-                    .....  .. .
tul                                0.1Ot  /I         UO0             40        120      4024        200      4124       1                                                            2U                   2U          2U          455           4%5            53.      53
Wm&$                               0. 20           U320 110        214          10    21032           e     12919       1                                                            520                  520         520        12459         2111.         20u        1t
Cassava                            0. 00           5000111          400         10      4000         45      [in0                                     IUI0                                                10           IU0         140          3140           40        US
kwi                                0.430 12          9  11?         424         25     10569         30      3171       I        324 114        923 120                              s45                 23"          1191         31"0           ItO        3178        I"
giuy                               0.04  5           l00 u13         45         35      15U3        lOo      IU         I a      115 Ill                                0 121         U4                  237          141         1421           ll                      I 77
habe                               0.130 I7I        1000W 27          0         20      2400         40      1040       I        149/14           24155                 0121         204                  29          299           741         23W2          247        11l  ,d 
lass                               0.051 I a         00  Its         33         10       3535        50        I00      1         79 119         47 120                 0 121         11                  223         213           112           II,         -9         I    pl   0   p 
heet  tto4u,                       0.1O 0           1400 124        Ili          5      4010        S3       1221       a                       215 *14                              I"                   413         413          n            3457         223         334a    ,
Wtav.                                                                 0                 4200         45      11190      a                      1;2*                                                      2300         100          590          2no          1200        "         
L:ilvtUk 132                                                          0                124O          75      9450       I                       90 12                               1000 /30              9o          1900        is"           47u0          1500     -113
Tre                                                                   0                 400           0         0      i                                                                                    0           0            0          4            23 0" O
O                    0                    0      I                                                                                                                                                      L 0  0 
Ie1,l                              2.212 125                                           12211                 M049       I       124    0       5436          0          0          "i3                 2329         1517         a255          57499        1911        321



- 99                                         Annex 10
Table 2
Page   4
It      40 ddpLUtaLAus aVc call
12 p c1nm  brickt  s  hamefim
/3 agUIea 25f/kg
4 50 kgha  35 fikg
/5  =  dan uPIlmtataa.s ant an
1 It kg/ha 6 20 f/lk
fl 751 dm mpleitataons cultia.t du SWrg
/ 75 din uplautatim cultist do as
19 Sq/l a 10 fl4g
110 4r4Ok/h  3l0klihalteacaquis
111 4Utg/ha#lOOtg/bha (tibquaqul
112 St kg/w  lk/hlattcltlicd *154kIhaliblSoIoOOkiha E              ,tica       l
11S 000k/la  9100kg/ha Csmumcms,tachiqumsi
/14 51 4 254ikgf4kg 0134/kg
/15 40kg I 351k4 .1.g4 I 1301lkg
/lk 10g/ha I 13ff/kg
/t1 6454kg/at lSkg/haIThaSdmHlOftg/halactull:cl.l8Okg/ks
/11V 33kg/t I 10ff kg .17 kg/ha 11t30/kg
/23 1.5 I/hal 135*11 de tEnisd .-1 kg/hka I2004/kg dCactullic
/2 3320kg/ha +2000kg/ha lTbndmH l0oOkg/lhal tecla.quis)
125 aeuElcin igmvalestis - catutrs. porn
r20 p.1t citullap InusSlm de I'bploitatims
127 vwuifmgatium it aims poor dem c*mrim-2 s(05l200I- fr
IN3 ditiqoap, iesumlagataoa., swms poor I cacti 1500.100I10047001 *wrsafngatiau at sans pou dim cheats 320043
/In  trawail .pluntaar valarise a 1004/i
calm  40 jars/ha
humano 20 juw/l.a
mulct: 20 jars/ha
IU    tge. 1! jars/ha
.'lthz  lef/  *17qnu* L"
aja 1.5      jew's/ha X Ust   th    D f4 Ictli
eist 25jrisha
palates. IlEiafeh
/31   ta do 2 cksema SINOm 3640  br
/32 vate de dim chwarme 6 lOOSr  1 jama boei tams Jos 3 msl90OO/3-30004r 34 51Olatrni de lait/am I 12fr/l16100 total i2hOSr
/32 wteb d2 Pun  keins I 9O00  thm  lie 3 an * 00 litrs de leit I             /I  III
/3I kg dktallac I 20W/Ik
34 InI d  Thie  6335 frI



- 100 -
A-nex 11
Page   1
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
AND HINAGRI INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
(Document #112.820)
A. Sector or sub-sector reports and studies:
Al   Resultats provisoires de l'Enquete Nationale Agricole de I'annfe
1984, MINAGRI, Services des Enquetes Agricoles, 1985.
A2   Arrete presidentiel portant organisation et attributions des
services de l'Administration Centrale, No 173/06 du 23 fevrier
1984 (Journal Officiel de la Republique Rwandaise, 15 mars 1984).
A3  Arrete ministeriel No 006/FIN 10.07 du 22 juin 1983 portant
mesures d'execution du Decret-loi No 19/78 du 14 aodt 1978 port.at
creation du plan comptable national (Journal Officiel de la
R-publique Rwandaise, 1 aout 1983).
hA   Renforcement du Service de Protection des Vegetaux au Rwanda,
TCP/RWA/2308(T) deux documents:
- Rapport de la premiAre consultation du 29/2 au 10/4/84, Samd
Vodjani, Consultant, FAO.
- Rapport de la deuxieme consultation du 7/8 au 13/12/84, Samad
Vodjani, Consultant, FAO.
A5   Proposition de loi relative au regime forestier, Republique
Rwandaise, Ministere de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des ForEts,
mars 1985.
A6   Les besoins en superficie pour les cultures au Rwanda,
G. Delepierre, 1984.
A7   Instruction ministerielle No 05/05 du 14 janvier 1982 portant mise
en place du systeme national de vwlgarisation agricole.
A8   Le plan national semencier du Rwanda, FAO, Projet TCP/RWA/2307,
A. Shilo, janvier 1985.



- 101 -
Annex 11
Page   2
A9   Accroissement de la production vivriare par l'emploi des engrais,
Conclusions et Recommndations du Projet, Rwanda, AG:IFS/RWA/004,
FAO, 1984.
A10 Accroissement de la production vivriere par l'emploi des engrais,
E-.onomie de l'emploi des engrais, Rwanda, AG:GCPF/RWA/006/DEN,
FAO, 1984.
All  Prefecture de Gitarana, presentation des strategies regionales,
1985.
A12 Rwanda Private Enterprise Development Project, USAID Project No.
696-0121, July 1984.
B. Project related reports and studies:
BI  Programme national de vulgarisation, Rwanda, Ministere de
l Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Forets, Document preparatoire,
C. Bazihizina, J. Baguiramenshi et M. Barnaud, Septembre 1984.
B2   Programme de vulgarisation, Rwanda, Documents preliminaires Nos 1,
2, 3, 4, 5 et 6, MINAGRI/IRAM, octobre 1984.
B3   Compte rendu des travaux preparatoires en vue de l'elaboration
d'un programme National de Vulgarisation, Application Gitarama,
deux volumes:
- lare partie, Application Gitarama
- 2ame partie, Application Gitarama, octobre 1984
B4   Projet de Production Agricole de Gitarama, Rapport de preparation,
MINAGRI, C. Bazihizina et J. Baguiramenshi, avril 1985.
B5   Projet Agricole de Gitarama, Composante vulgarisation et services,
Mission d'evaluation, Banque Mondiale, 8 juillet 1985.
B6   Consulting assistance in preparation of project for marketing and
processing of food crops in Rwanda, Windsor, juillet 1984.
B7   Etude sur la commercialisation dans la prefecture de Gitarama,
Musema, Sabasaja et Mue Salat-Desgranges, novembre 1984, deux
volumes:
- Tome 1: Dossier Statistique et Inventaire des
Communes
-  Tome 2:  Resultats de l'Enquete



- 102 -
Annex 11
Page   3
B8   Projet Agricole de Gitarama, Programme pilote de
promotion agricole, Etude de factibilite, Nkurunziza,
Sabasajya et Salat-Desgranges, mars 1985.
B9   Projet Agricole de Gitarama, Proposition pour la
gestion et l'organization du Bureau de Promotion,
Salat-Desgranges et Nkurunziza, juin 1985.
B10  Projet Agricole de Gitarama, Composante promotion,
Mission d'6valuation, Banque Mondiale, 1 juillet
1985.
Bl  Elements d'analyse et investigations dans le milieu
rural de Gitarama, MINAGRI, mars 1985.
B12 to B18 Projet d'Appui Institutionnel au Minist4re de
l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Forets (MINAGRI),
Rapport de preparation du projet, avril 1985:
B12  -  Composante etudes et planification
B13  -  Composante direction controle et evaluation
B14 - Gestion financiere et administration
B15  - Gestion du personnel au MINAGRI, H. Caporal,
avril 1985
B16  -  Projet d'organisation du systeme d'information
et de documentation agricole au Rwanda, Etude
d'identification et de mise en place de la
documentation, de 1'information et des archives
du Ninistere de l'Agriculture, de l'iSlevage et
des Forgts, G. Le Prince, janvier-svril 1985
B17 -  IRMOS Review of MINAGRI computerization
requirements, Pre-appraisal Mission and
Back-to-Office Report, A. Moussa to K. Marshall,
May 23, 1985
B18  - Projet d'Appui Institutionnel du Ministere de
l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Forets,
Rapport de synthese, avril 1985



- 103 -
Annex 11
Page   4
B19  Projet de Renforcement Institutionnel du Minist&re de
l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Forets, Mission
d'evaluation, Banque Mondiale, 12 juillet 1985
C. Implementation:
Cl   Implementation Volume (Table of Contents):
Annex I - Agricultural, Economic and Social
Characteristics of the Gitarama
Prefecture and Project Implementation
Scheme
Annex 2 - The Proposed Agricultural Extension and
Services System Organization
Annex 3 - Technical Features of Extension in the
Gitarama Prefecture and Methodology for
New Technology Generation
Annex 4 - Promotion and Financing of Agriculture,
Farm Input Supply, Agro-processing and
Marketing, Detailed Arrangements for
Organization and Management of the
Component
Annex 5 - Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural
Extension and Services
Annex  6  -  Contractual Agreements Between MINAGRI and
the Agricultural Services Implementing
Institutions
Annex  7  -  Farm Budgets in Gitarama
Annex  8  -  Summary of Agricultural Staff and Equipment
Annex  9  -  Detailed Features of MINAGRI Support Project
Annex 10  -  Terms of Reference for MINAGRI Institutional
Support Technical Assistance
Annex 11  -  Detailed Cost Tables, GITARAMA
Annex 12  -  Detailed Cost Tables, MINAGRI
Annex 13  -  Economic Analysis
Annex 14  -  List of Ongoing Agricultural Development
Projects



RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL  PRODUCTION  PROJECT
Organization Chart
Management'
'LCo~mmee------------------- Secretary-General                                                     R
Central Structure              Selected                                                             nistrative
(HINAGRI)                                        Ponctionnaire dirtgeant                  and Finnneal
Dviso                (Director for Agricultural XManagement
Promotion)l
Seed product ion                     I               , 
Prefucture CITARAMA           Conditioning             Prefectoral Coordinator                  Promotion Office
CertLfication         1                                                   (RPP) 
Sub-Prifectures             Operational Unit           P.  nt        O                                                  e3eir
T.U.O.e
Communes                                              R,A,C.+ ICs
Sectors                                          EXTENSION  AGENTS
'-I



RWANDA
PROJET DE DEMLOPPEMENT INSTITUTIONNEL DU MINAGRI
MINISTER DE LAGRICULTURE, DE LELEVAGE ET DES FORETS
MINAGRI
lm Du 
II1.I  I                                                                                               , 11111  ai 111
EtLW.                        AAl "Im                                                    m
eV
OVAr g  S   SSh  |m
Ln



RWANDA
PROJETS AGRICOLE DE GITARAMA ET RENFORCEMENT INSTITUTIONNEL DU MINAGRI
MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE, DE L'ELEVAGE ET DES FORETS
|CSECREIRM |
1:      ~~~~I nursn   I                   CONIREE1 
AQIAfC                         EVALLLAflION
UM H |t  GE5i fl  I INCE EN |-
EVALIUAtION  ||COIAMflE  | |   NflQE  0f 
RELAI1ONS     GESII N CXS    GWTDN CU       C4Rmua nt    rOI~MfO
I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~.mugA~~~~~~~~~~RIWS    CREDItS   PERXeE   NIX>NES  En ?E0RtWW
KICE lI P  N   SERICE DES$
1NWSIES        SEMEtECIS  |'d Dmt-27619
AGRICOUIS    UfL[CT1tK*I
II
I-A



- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~
2V
RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
PROJET DE PRODUCTION AGRICOLE DE GITARAMA
RAINFALL AND AGRICULTURAL PATTERN
AND LOCATION OF BANK-FINANCED PROJECTS
project Area
Zone du Pmjet
ISAR Research Stations (10)                                                                                                        
S      CentredeRechercheISAR  (10)
Bugesera Gmsaks Migongo Rural Services Project - Phase 11
Bugesefs Gisaka Migongo. Projet de Services de Developpement Rural-Phase i1
Lake Kivu Coffee and Food Crop Improvement Project
Projet d'Anmliorntion de Ia Calecuture et des CutCures Vivrieres dans ta Regon du Lec 1Gvu                                ZAIRE
_rs       Chmnchon; Project
Propet de Ouinquina
__,____   Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project-Phase 11
Proaet de Dsvelppemenr Agro-pasral dv MuAtr r-Phase I/
E;Z]  Gishwatm Forest Reserve
Rellserve Foresttre de Gishwart
Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project (Geshwati Sub-Protecti        bo   -
771   Projet de D&vebppement SytopBstoran (SousProjet de Gishwati)
Birunga Maize PrDqect                                                                                                             ra
Projet Birunga Mass
Agnrcultural Region Boundanes                                                         I'
Limtes des Regions Agrncoles                                                                I                     J-    :          dA
Roads                                                                                                                                  -
Routes                                                                                                    Gs                     -    -.
-    Riviltres                                                                            1*                                 i, 
Towns                                                                                                        /.
0  ViNes/
National Capita;
W  Capital Aittotnal.                                                                                1:       .v         ./X          , 
-__   Intemabonal Boundanes                                                                     I                            " |
Fronuteres Internatronales                                                                  V
1 soehyftsin mm                                                                               I
1200-  bliohyetes en mm
Agricultural Regions                                                                          ,/
R6gions Agricoles                                                                           /
t Irnbo      
Imbo                                                                                 /         / 
2   Impra/
Lake Kivu Region                                                               /             /
3   Bordures Lac Kivu                                                             /
Lava Soil                                                                  ,/
4    rerres de lave                                                                               (
Zaire-Nile Divide Highlands                                            /  /         /        |   -j9  
5    Zone d'Haute Alttude dv Crete Zaire-Nik .-                                         / Z   D     H l   V  Lr-
Buberuka Highlands                                                              /           l    / -                 -
6    ZoBne dSHauIe AZ iude de Buberuka                                                                   - e
Cenrl Platau                                                                        -       _       }        /M
7    Plateau Cenvt.ar                                                                     --       :           _
8 Graniti Dorsa                                                                       -   :           t    
DorsalGranitque                                                                    e_         
g    Mayaga                                                             Kaban Cpg               u  
10Bugesera,z/  
East Platealu  
Phteau de rEst
12East Savannahs -)   
S..ase d rs                                          ZAIRE                       /.   
0       10       20       30      4o       so-                                             Sy        
laLOUETERS I        I                I        t        '' '                                                 \
ulLESo ~   ~ 10             20            3                                                                                     , f 
% ~BURUNDI
,    -    -                                                                              -         \   \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRM 19380
|  ~~~~~- g \\l~~~a.                         o Mbarm   Kampan
jf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
UGANDA                                                         . ..t. /
Rutuhuns4',t
4X17                                 /             'IA'>StKTANZANIA
~~rJ'Riihen~e      Rerer
'In, , ,                    t,k wae  A  }    .AKAGERA
By        \X                      NATIONAL
~\>   ~**e*. PARK)
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
if -. 9 ~   Z  a  h     f         *,  J,    : -              r    r.    SUDAN  ,  _  1   _ XETHlOAl
r  . t \ ' '   f ' N.// KIGALI .SOA
r~~~~~~~~~~~
J        A Ary<'~-_~~-'S~-R   a
'3, ~ik ng   r                                                                 32               ETH_S - - -__4 /\ iOPI
CU                             40 >  -.L Tb                                  SANZ
Pr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
.412 .2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~UAD
*t-  SUDAN TANZAI
6::::  (f~~~~~~ '   BURUNDI                                          KENYA~~32  40
44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEBR18



IBRD 19381
I             RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
PROJET DE PRODUCTION AGRICOLE DE GITARAMA
- ;  MAIN ROADS            OPERATIONAL UNITS
ROUTES PRINOPALES  \-  UNITES OPERA TIONNELLES
0   PREFECTURE       BP  BANQUES POPULAIRES
*     \       Z w_\_ PREFECTURE   PREFECTURE BOUNDARY
--  RIVERS               LIMITE DE PREFECTURE
FLEUVES              SUB-PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
L-MITE DE SOUS-PREFECTURE
G I S E N Y I   ;    {t         X        X                       ---- COMMUNE BOUNDARIES
1!50              1                                    WWLLMTE DE COMMUNE
NYAICABANDAI
'4   BP  )r NYABIKENKE  '
))   /      Jl             i9r
if~~~~~~ j                             A1aj
A7-,.--'                 R RUT OBWE                  0)BP
2r0 BULINGA                           ot) +,                              i RUNDA    2?00'
4     BPt/          Ht  ~~~~~MUSABRA      -- 
KIBUYE                                    G              .         -~          --
<^    MususAn    wGI1ramal ~            ,- 
i,' J~-M NYAMABUYE    ?_
<M Ag                                     -"J                MU/4NA
-21W                               MUKINGI   \       ~      /                                        2'10'-
MASANGO                                     BP   NTONGWE
- - -   ML AWAMA                     --
"8 K   NG/RO                                                 UGANDA  -
2-A0'                                    _                    2 27-              2                    .~KENYA
GIKONG'ORO                            .t                                          /   . 
V To Bulare                          [k
V        t rO sUs        ~ ~~~~ZAIRE      7  
- -- ~~~~~~~~~~  ~BUTARE                                    I c~'l!/ID
c~  _~v---o
___ _                                                | \   ./    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANIA
0       5        10
2P40                        2950 
NOVEMBER 1985



--                             RWANDA
GITARAMA AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT                                                                   U
PROJET DE PRODUCTION AGRICOLE DE GITARAMA                                                      )
MAIN EXISTING AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
FINANCED BY EXERNAL DONORS
IRusfturu
IDA              |      |PNUD                                             j     ;i, 
BELGIN AID       E      | ADS
| 1: ' . ! ! |FREN&CH AID  USAID
L:qG GERMAN AID                  |                             ZAIRE
EDF                       AUSTRIAN AID
SwISS AD     |AFVP
MAIN ROADS
RIVERS                       ,                                     -
CCMMUNE BOUNDARIES
- - -  PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                               E  ... s
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES         -. ..   ;                      - . . . .
S Gorra/ .., ,
LAKE. K/ VU'
X        ( '  I         2      4t          ' 4 t " ' '  1
Kibuye
~GAnflrA
{  {      /    \ ~~~~KIRASIO   _of__,   
_  X                                                                     --t'
F-I
KENYA   j                                '.
1RURUNDI        'N
Z A I R E ,(rnJttZQOea,\'r+ .t**.j-  ZE.A
T` AN'ANA             O                     \ ,
)ZAMBIA -                                         d,       8 U  R U  N  D  I               g
V41       W3AAOZAMBIQUJEJ                29'
,    i J   piALWI        II                          \\         



IBRD 1938
!                 w-           x~~~~~~~~~~~~~O k4ba-rar  P omgnala
UG  A N D  A                                          Kagftumba
(                                                 /                N- 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,' ;, v                                              .. 5 
5X\c''',SJ<w"C\'"R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* I$J' IB 
'Ruhenger. J4g w             >       |.       XvAA4 
_-A K-  '''-  y         a
!.<e' --   >47\-''./s  '' '   ''' .,.R  -'X'S-  '        (     4A ''                     i
,,,(t p\<  j\&sMra.!.-\\<|_r<>\                                      4 RK
-Y                                      K~ IGA  I h< 4zt/  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... r.  -
-   X      ( ~~Gltaroma       j    t\                      tr        j tKD 
:~~~~~~~~~~ 'a                                    20     0     40    )   1"=C 5d 
K. .r              ., /
. =iarm i->;              -                                          
-,t 8,,Ieek 1w.             - .. - .                        Wd 1.1        k D.
- a i~Qahh                                                                   DUSL ,
.;;J.                ____ ~~~~~ff  '.-sIda -   P. /9'-Fr    uME.    df.~f-
.-   -d.                                W ,  , 
0,                                 -        /  mI | W
; ,, ^r  Cofocf r  _r  a .I r  on  ms .s.                                                       19r
/Ion rr I  sr  Ar                                  'n  r0 ?C'      // unn
KIL0METERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVrkE 109850~  .



