CREDIT NMBER 1669 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Gitara~a Agricultural Production and
MINAGRI Institutional. Development Project)
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                      2.3      , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1669 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                           =,23  , 1986, between
the RWANDESE REPUBLTC (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Creditp Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the second sentence of Section 2.03 deleted (the Gen-
eral Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Ministry" and "MINAGRI" mean the Borrower's Ministry
responsible for agriculture;
(b) "ISAR" means the Institute of Agronomic Sciences of
Rwanda;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(d) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance (P 347) granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 13, 1985 and
November 5, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eleven million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 11,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and  the   Association,  for   expenditures  made  (or, if    the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in the National Bank of Rwanda or another
banking institution acceptable to the Association a special
account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out og, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1991
or such later date as the Association shall establish.        The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-3-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the.currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourtiis of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and Novembedr 1 commencing May 1, 1996, and ending November 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2005, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
the Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and agricul-
tural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.


﻿(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, and with the Annual Work Programs and Budgets prepared by
the Borrower and approved by the Association as provided in such
Schedule.
(c) In order to facilitate the availability of funds for
the Project as and when needed, the Borrower shall maintain two
Project Accounts in the National Bank of Rwanda, one in an
initial amount of RF 15 million for Part I of the Project and the
other in an initial amount of RF 5 million for Part II of the
Project. Each such Project Account shall be replenished quarterly
in advance so as to maintain the accounts at all times at average
levels equal to the estimated requirements for the respective
Parts of the Project for three months,
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the new exten-
sion and agricultural service organized under Part I A.1 of the
Project: (a) be freely reviewed and evaluated after two years'
operation in the first Sub-prefecture covered by the Prcject;
and (b) after an exchange of views thereon with the Associa-
tion, be extended to cover the entire Prefecture of Gitarama by
December 31, 1988.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the housing
constructed and made available to higher-level field staff of the
Ministry under Part I of the Project be so made available at
rentals sufficient to cover at least the cost of maintenance of
such housing, but in any event not less, on an annual basis, than
2% of investment cost, and that such rental be collected by the
person responsible for accounting under Part I of the Project
and be used exclusively for such maintenance.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the higher-
level personnel assigned to the carrying out of Part II of the
Project has the necessary qualifications and experience and that


﻿-5-
the Association be given the opportunity to comment on the
proposed terms of reference for all technical assistants to be
recruited for Part II of the Project.
Section 3.06. Prior to December 31, 1987, the Borrower shall
evaluate the results of the activities comprising Part II of the
Project and shall take all measures to strengthen the structural
and operational capacity of the ministry shown to be necessary by
such evaluation. The terms of reference for, and the conclusions
of, such evaluation, shall be furnished to the Association for an
exchange of views with the Borrower.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the Ministry to
prepare, as part of the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to Section 9.01 of the General Conditions,
semi-annual reports on the progress in carrying out the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish procedures to
ensure: (i) that credits provided to extension staff for the
purchase of mopeds and motorcycles under Part I A of the Project
be made under procedures requiring repayments to be automatically
deducted and withheld from the salaries of the purchasers; and
(ii) that such repayments be held by the Ministry in a bank
account to -be used exclusively for the purchase of new vehicles
for such staff.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1986, cause
the Ministry to define the terms and conditions of the contri-
butions of the communes to the agricultural sector.
Section 3.10. Promptly following the signature of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall, through the Ministry, enter into
arrangements satisfactory to the Association with the Office of
Industrial Crops of Rwanda - Coffee (OCIR-Caf ), the Cooperative
Research and Training Center, (IWACU), the Banques Populaires
and the International Labor Organization or another agency satis-
factory to the Association, defining the respective roles of such
parties in carrying out Parts I A. and E.(2), (3) and (4) of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in


﻿-6-
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of each part of the
Project,  of   the  departments  or  agencies  of   the  Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account,
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.   C
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or payments out of the Special Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last disbursement from the Credit
Account or, if later, the last payment out of the
Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable   the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and


﻿-7-
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts be included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contain,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account or paid out of the Special Account in
respect of such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
4)                Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the initial deposits into the Project Accounts have
been made as specified in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(b) an*agricultural officer for the first Sub-prefecture, a
promotion officer and two certified accountants, all satisfactory
to the Association and employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, have been hired; and
(c) the Ministry and ISAR have entered into arrangements
satisfactory to the Association defining each of their roles in
the adaptive research included in Part I.B of the Project.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
B.P. 158
Kigali, Rwanda
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINECO                          502 MINAFFET
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Exprnssed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works,              1,560,000        70%
Part I of the
Project
(2) Vehicles and                                100% of foreign
Equipment                                  expenditures and
90% of local
(a) Part I of            1,560,000     )  expenditures
the Project,                      )
except for                        )
ISAR                              )
(b) for ISAR,               30,000     )
Part I.B of                       )
the Project                       )
(c) Part II of             650,000     )
the Project                       )
(3) Consultants' and                        )   100%
experts' services                      )
(a) Part I of            2,650,000     )
the Project,                      )
except for                        )
ISAR                              )
(b) for ISAR,              150,000     )
Part I.B of                       )
the Project                       )
(c) Part II of the         280,000     )
Project, in-                      )
cluding audits                    )


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditure-
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Training                                    100% of foreign
exoenditures and
(a) Part I of              530,00      )   90% of local
the Project                       )   expenditures
(b) Part II of             750,000     )
the Project                       )
(5) Agricultural                 80,000         100% of foreign
inputs                                     expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(6) Operating
costs
(a) Part I of              500,000         40% until
the Project,                          SDR 330,000 has
other than                            been disbursed
of ISAR                               and 20% there-
aftere
(b) of ISAR under           30,000         40% until
Part I.B of                           SDR 20,000
the Project                           has been dis-
(excluding                            bursed and
salaries)                             20% thereafter
(7) Nyabarongo Study          1,200,000         100%
Part I.F of the
Project
(8) Refunding of                900,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (c)
tion Advance                               of this Agree-
ment
(9) Unallocated                 830,000
TOTAL              11,700,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals from the Credit Account or payments out of the
Special Account shall be made in respect of expenditures made
prior to the date of this Agreement;


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project's overall objectives are to stimulate agricul-
tural production, employment and income in Rwanda and to improve
the management of the agricultural sector. The Project includes
two major components: Part I, the Gitarama Agricultural Produc-
tion component, designed to increase agricultural production and
farmers' income in the prefecture of Gitarama, and to constitute
a test for a model of agricultural services and agricultural
promotion to be replicable at the national level; and Part II,
the MINAGRI Institutional Development component designed to
reinforce the systems, and develop the procedures and competence,
necessary to improve ag7icultural sector planning and management.
Specifically, the project comprises the following parts,
subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part I.   The Gitarama Agricultural Production Component
A.   Reorganization of and logistical support to the Agricultural
Extension Service, including training of agents, coastruction of
office space and housing, expansion of two- and four-wheeled
vehicles fleet and of stocks of equipment and supplies.
B.   Carrying out with the participation of the Institute of
Agronomic Sciences of Rwanda (ISAR) of a program of on-farm
adaptive research, with a view to identifying specific technical
recommendations designed to increase agricultural productivity
and to increase farm income in Gitarama.
C.   Organization  of   and  support  to   selected  agricultural
services in the Prefecture, including:
(1) production, quality control and sale of improved plant
material;
(2) erosion control activities;
(3) production, quality control and sales of forest and
fruit tree seedlings; and formulation of plans for
communal   forestry   development   (plans   forestiers
communaux); and


﻿- 13 -
(4) provision of animal health services (veterinary facili-
ties and initial stock of veterinary products).
D.   Carrying out by the MINAGRI of a limited program of procure-
ment and initial sales of agricultural inputs and implements in
Gitarama.
E.   Carrying out a program of support to institutions involved
in agricultural training and 'research, the promotion and financ-
ing of agriculture, farm input supply and agro-processing and
marketing in Gitarama, including:
(1) establishment and maintenance of an Investment Promo-
tion Office and the construction of office space
necessary therefor;
(2) assistance to cooperatives and farmers' groups;
(3) support to the Banques Populaires in Gitarama for    its
programs   of  agricultural   credit   and  promotional
activities, including the construction of necessary
buildings to be put at the disposal of such Bank for a
stipulated term; and
(4) support to artisans and private enterprises in the
agricultural sector.
F.   Carrying out technical, economic and financial studies     of
various alternatives for the development of the Nyabarongo
Valley.
Part II. MINAGRI Institutional Development Component
A.   Carrying out by the MINAGRI of a program designed to improve
its capacity in the following areas:
(1) sector planning and project preparation;
(2) monitoring and evaluation of projects and agricultural
services;
(3) accounting,    financial  management   and   control  of
projects and services;
(4) documentation and diffusion of technical publications
and other information;


﻿- 14 -
(5) general administration, including personnel management,
budgeting, correspondence and archives; and
(6) computerization of operations in the Ministry.
B.   Carrying out by the MINAGRI of a training program for its
staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, except for Categories 2 (b), 3 (b), and 6 (b);
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for elIgible
expenditures in0accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 16 -
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
0
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus
the amount of any special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower


﻿- 17 -
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.   Organization and Administration
The Borrower shall carry out the administrative coordination
of the implementation of the Project through the Secr tariat-
G n ral of the Ministry. Day to day coordination and adminis-
tration of activities shall be delegated to a fonctionnaire
dirigeant for each of Parts I and II of the Project: (a) the
Director of Agricultural Promotion in the Ministry's Agricultural
Production Directorate for Part I, the Gitarama Agricultural
Production Component; and (b) the Director of Studies and Plan-
ning (DEP) of the Ministry for Part II, the MINAGRI Institutional
Development Compe ent. The management and implementation of the
two Parts shall rEnain separated:
(1) Part I: The     Gitarama Agricultural Production    Com-
ponent. The responsibilitie- for carrying out activi-
ties under this component si 11 remain with MINAGRI's
organizational structure; at the Gitarama Pr fecture
level, the Prefectorial Coordinator shall have respons-
ibility for managing the various services of the
Ministry. A Management Committee composed of represen-
tatives of the MINAGRI and including the Ministries
responsible for finance, economy and planning, the
Pr fecture and the Sub-pr fectures and headed by the
Director of this Part of the Project, shall meet
regularly to review progess and discuss issues. Part
I.B of the Project (program of adaptive research in the
Gitarama pr fecture) shall be carried out by the
Ministry and the Institute of Agronomic Sciences of
Rwanda (ISAR) in accordance with work programs to be
agreed upon annually between them.
(2)   Part II: The MINAGRI Institutional Development Com-
ponent. Activities under this component (Parts II A and
B of the Project) shall be carried out and managed by
the Ministry's organizational structure. The Director
of Studies and Planning shall have responsibility for
coordination and administration of activities under the
Project. He shall coordinate preparation and subsequent
monitoring of the annual work plan for such activities
and preparation of appropriate periodic reports.


﻿-19                                                   1
B.   Annual Work Programs and Budgets
Annual work programs and budgets shall be prepared for each
component of the Project. They shall detail the objectives and
targets of the component for the year in question, the specific
activities to be carried out and the required human and financial
resources. Annual work programs shall include the following: (a)
a brief evaluation of the previous year's performance as compared
to objectives and a comparison of results obtained and how they
are related to the new program; (b) detailed investment and
operating budgets; (c) a description of the program of activities
including quantified implementation objectives, output perfor-
mance and project impact indicators where appropriate; (d) staff-
ing and training plans with a statement of specific objectives;
(e) a financing plan; and (f) a procurement plan. Annual work
programs shall be approved by the Minister responsible for agri-
culture by October 31 of each year and shall be submitted to the
Association for approval.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Other Procuarement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment, vehicles and agri-
cultural inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$100,000, as well as all contracts for civil works, may be
procured under local competitive bidding procedures as described
in paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $50,000 may be procured on the bas s
of the lowest of at least three competing Oquotations, as
described in paragaph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.   Contracts estimated at less than $1,000 equivalent may be
negotiated directly with suppliers.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and each contract for the
purchase of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or         9
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract not governed by the preced-
ing paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and


﻿- 21 -
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with      the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
3.    The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or payment out
of the Special Account on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
4.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants and experts, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  2 1  A   day of
198 1.
FOR SECRETARY
L                                       -


