Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19700
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
DAGUANGBA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 3412/CREDIT 2305)
September23, 1999
Energy and Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1991              $1 = 5.45
1992              $1 = 5.75
1993              $1 = 8.70
1994              $1 = 8.45
1995              $1 = 8.32
1996              $1 = 8.30
1997              $1 = 8.30
1998              $1 = 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EIRR         -   Economic Internal Rate of Retum
GOC          -   Government of China
HEPCO        -   Hainan Electric Power Company
HMC          -   High Main Canal
HMCMD        -   High Main Canal Water Management Division
ICR          -   Implementation Completion Report
MSDI         -   Mid-South Investigation and Design Institute
O&M          -   Operating & Maintenance
RCC          -   Roller-Compacted Concrete
SAR          -   Staff Appraisal Report
SDPC         -   State Development and Planning Commission
Vice President     Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Sector Director    Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Country Director    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Task Manager       Barry Trembath, EASEG



CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives ........................................................l 1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .........................................................                   2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................4
D. Project Sustainability ........................................................                              17
E. Bank Performance ........................................................                                    17
F. Borrower Perfornance ........................................................                                18
G. Assessment of Outcome ........................................................                               19
H. Future Operation ........................................................                                    19
1. Key Lessons Learned ........................................................                                21
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ........................................................                                      22
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ........................................................                         22
Table 2: Related bank loans ........................................................                           23
Table 3: Project Timetable ........................................................                            28
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ........... 28
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................... 29
Table 5B: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................... 30
Table 5 C: Key Indicators For Project Implementation .................................... 31
Table 6A: Key Indicators For Project Operations ........................................... 32
Table 6B: Key Indicators for Project Operations ............................................ 33
Table 7: Studies included in Project ........................................................                    34
Table 8A: Project Costs ........................................................                                35
Table 8B: Project Costs ........................................................                               36
Table 8C: Project Financing ........................................................                           37
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................................ 38
Table 9B: Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................................ 39
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................                    40
Table  11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 42
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................................  42
Table  13: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................                     43
ANNEX A: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF HEPCO ........................................ 44
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................ 47
ANNEX C: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ................................................... 55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
DAGUANGBA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 3412/CREDIT 2305)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Daguangba
Multipurpose Project in China, for which Loan 3412 in the amount of U$30,000,000
million equivalent and Credit 2305 in the amount of SDR 28,100,000 million
(US$37,000,000 million equivalent) were approved on October 31, 1991 and made
effective on February 20, 1992. The loan and credit were closed on December 31, 1998.
They were fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on February 24, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Barry Trembath and Yuling Zhu in the Energy and
Mining Sector Unit, and Qun Li in the Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector
Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Mr. Yoshihiko Sumi, Sector
Director. The Borrower/Beneficiary provided comments, which are incorporated in the
ICR, its own completion report, an executive summary of which is included as an annex
to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
October 1998, and an ICR mission visited the Province in March 1999. A follow-up
mission to obtain outstanding data was undertaken in June 1999. This ICR is based on
the documents and data received during those missions, discussions with Beneficiary
staff and consultants, Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower/Beneficiary, and
internal Bank memoranda.






CHINA
DAGUANGBA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 3412/CREDIT 2305)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Daguangba Multipurpose Project is located in the western part of Hainan
Island, the driest and poorest region of the Hainan Province. As a newly established
province in China, Hainan's potential for economic growth remained largely untapped
partly due to the lack of infrastructure. It was in this context that the Project was
approved by the Bank and the Government of China. The Beneficiary of the Project was
the Hainan Electric Power Company (HEPCO).
Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives of the Project were to: (a) develop non-polluting and cost-
effective hydropower resources; (b) increase agricultural production and the income of
poor farmers; (d) improve the environmental quality and public health of the region by
implementing an environmental management program; (e) promote prudent investment
programming; (f) promote rational pricing of electricity and irrigation water; and (g)
enhance the operational efficiency and financial management of HEPCO.
3.    To meet the above objectives, the project included two categories of components:
power and agriculture/resettlement. The power components included: (a) a 56 m high,
719 m long concrete gravity dam; (b) an underground powerhouse, equipped with four 60
MW generation sets; (c) some 36 km of double circuit 220 kV transmission line and a
substation; (d) a computerized load dispatch system for the Hainan power grid; and (e)
technical assistance and training in project design, power system planning and tariff
studies, utility and financial management. The agriculture/resettlement components
included: (f) a 16 km long main irrigation canal; (g) about 154 km of branch and lateral
canals and on-farm works for irrigation of about 12,700 ha of which about 1,400 ha
would be related to resettlement; (h) resettlement of about 23,800 people; (i) and
agricultural support services.
4.    The objectives remained unchanged for the duration of the project. They were
clearly stated. The physical objectives were realistic. The institutional development
objectives may have been too ambitious, given HEPCO's status as a province owned
power bureau and an unlikely candidate to pilot reforns in the power sector. Both power
and agricultural development objectives were important in supporting economic growth
and alleviating poverty in an a very poor region.



- ii -
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project achieved its primary objective of developing hydropower resources,
to provide needed peaking power and auxiliary services in a system which is now
predominantly thermal. Though the irrigation facilities have not been fully completed due
to shortage of counterpart funds, the project objective of increasing agricultural
production and income of the poor farmers has been partly achieved and there are good
prospects to extend this achievement with the recent allocation of funds by the provincial
government to allow completion of this component by the end of 2000. The objective of
improving environmental quality and public health of the region has been at least partly
achieved with a general improvement of public health in resettlement villages. Success in
achieving objectives of promoting rational pricing of electricity and irrigation water and
institutional development has been modest.
6.    The ex-post Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR), based on a minimum
proxy of "willingness to pay" for power benefits is calculated as 16.1 percent in
comparison with 15.0 percent estimated at appraisal using similar methodologies. The
appraisal estimate is exceeded despite the fact that the irrigation component is not
complete and energy production has been less than planned because of severe drought.
7.    The major shortcoming in achievement of objectives is in relation to the
restoration of income of resettlers. The overall standard of resettlement housing and
community facilities is better than before the move and based on sample surveys average
income is about 10 percent higher than that before the move, after allowing for inflation.
However, incomes are unevenly distributed and about 40 percent of villages have
average incomes which are still at least 20 percent lower than before the move.
Development plans have been prepared specifically targeted at problem areas, and with
the recent approval of additional funds by the provincial government it is hoped that
needed agricultural development work can be completed by the end of 2000.
8.    The dam and power plant were started and completed basically on schedule. The
first generating unit commenced trial operation on December 29, 1993 and the entire
power component was completed and put into commercial operation on December 30,
1995. The dam and power plant are of good quality. The reservoir first filled to full
supply level in November 1996, and in 1997 the generation was close to the design level
of 520 GWh. However, there was a decrease in 1998 due mainly to an exceptional
drought in the region.
9.    The power transmission facilities constructed under the project included: 35.4 km
of double circuit 220 kV transmission lines from Daguangba to Emaoling and 194.2 km
of 220 kV line fom Emaoling to Sanya; extension of Emaoling 220 kV substation and a
new 220 kV substation in Sanya City. The Emaoling substation was put into operation in
November 1993 and the Sanya substation in July 1995. The extension to Sanya was not
included in the project scope but in May 1993, the Bank agreed that Bank financing could



- iii -
be used to finance the purchase of imported materials and equipment for the extension to
Sanya providing for a more effective usage of Daguangba power in the Hainan grid.
10.   The first phase of the High Main Canal was also completed generally as planned
and is of a high standard. It entered operation in June 1994 and has been operating
successfully since then. The second phase is not yet complete due to shortage of local
funds, however with the recent approval of additional funds by the provincial government
it is expected that the project can be completed by the end of 2000. Achievements in
agriculture support services substantially exceed appraisal targets. Agro-technical
extension services system were also strengthened with construction and rehabilitation of
four new county and township centers, and introduction of various new production
technologies.
11.   The detailed resettlement plan, prepared in 1987, provided for the relocation and
re-establishment of 20,516 persons. The plan provided for resettlement to be primarily
land based.  Actual numbers of people requiring relocation increased to 22,243 which
is still less than the SAR estimate of 23,800 people. However, the above numbers do not
include a further 5,343 people in 13 additional villages who are affected by loss of land,
raising the total number of project affected persons to 27,586. The original resettlement
budget of Y 150.5 million was adjusted twice during implementation, in 1993 and in late
1997, eventually reaching 269.4 million. However, because of slow arrival of funds from
the provincial government, by the end of 1998 only Y 206.3 million had been allocated
by HEPCO. Achievements of the resettlement plan up until the end of 1998, included:
construction of new housing and community facilities, providing substantially more floor
space of considerably higher quality than before the move; land development accounting
for 93 percent of the plan target. However for land-loss villages, because of the late start
and lack of finance, only 14 percent of land development targets had been achieved.
Restoration of livelihood is being achieved albeit gradually. According to the most
recent survey carried out by the independent momitoring agency, the average per-capita
income of all resettlers in 1997 was 9.7 percent higher than before the move after
allowing for inflation. However, income restoration was unevenly distributed. Most
villages served by the HMC have considerably improved their income. Another third of
villages seem to be well on the way to full restoration, but about 40 percent had a 1997
per-capita income at least 20 percent below that before the move. Development plans
have been prepared specifically targeted at the problem areas and with the provincial
government approval, on August 13, 1999 of an allocation from the provincial
development loan, HEPCO are optimistic that the remaining development work can be
completed by the end of 2000.
12.   The estimated cost of the project at appraisal (excluding interest during
construction) was equivalent to a total of $193.0 million (Y 1,086.5 million). The final
cost was equivalent to a total of $197.5 million (Y1,514.4 million). There is an apparent
cost overrun of some 2.3 percent when expressed in US dollars and 39.4 percent when
expressed in local currency. The difference in the two figures for cost overrun is due to
the higher-than-expected-inflation in China and the devaluation of the local currency.



- Iv -
The comparison of costs expressed in US dollars is considered to give a reasonable
estimate of cost overrun excluding the effects of inflation and devaluation. Given the size
of the project and the uncertainties involved, this slight increase of 2.3 percent is
considered to be reasonable.
13.   The ex-post Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR), based on a minimum
proxy of "willingness to pay" for power benefits is calculated as 16.1 percent in
comparison with 15.0 percent estimated at appraisal using similar methodologies. The
appraisal estimate is exceeded despite the fact that the irrigation component is not
complete and energy production has been less than planned because of severe drought.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.   The objectives of the projects were consistent with those of the Chinese
Government and the Bank. While major objectives were achieved there is a significant
shortfall in the area of resettlement where 40 percent of resettlement villages are still
some way from full restoration of income. However, with recent approval of additional
local funds, it is anticipated that this achievement will be eventually achieved.
15.   Daguangba Hydropower Plant is well staffed and has comprehensive and well-
documented operation and maintenance procedures in place to ensure proper operation
and maintenance of the power plant. With regard to performance indicators, the
Daguangba power plant has already been accredited as meeting State Power Corporation
standards for safe and efficient operation as well as aesthetics and working environment.
The H1MC Phase I was completed and started operation in June 1994. The Water
Resource Bureau of Dongfang City has operated and maintained the new irrigation
facilities since May 1994. Future operations will focus on efficient operation and
maintenance of the completed irrigation works and facilities so as to achieve the project's
full development. To further enhance the project's economic benefits, the irrigation areas
and agricultural support service facilities will be progressively adapted to a market-
oriented production economy with a self-supporting operation mechanism, responsible
for its own profits and losses.
16.   For resettlement, the additional Y50 million recently allocated by the provincial
government should allow general completion of the remaining works after which the
reservoir maintenance fund will generate income based on energy production of about Y
2.1 million per year for ten years which should sustain annual workplans for the
resettlement unit within HEPCO and two county resettlement offices.
17.  In line with Bank management's response to the OED report "Recent Experiences
with Involuntary Resettlement (Report No. 17538), it is recommended that the Bank
continue to supervise the resettlement component until it is clear that incomes have been
restored in real terms, or at least until physical facilities are in place to ensure this. It is
recommended that in FY00, two supervision missions are mounted for this purpose.



- v -
18.   Key lessons mainly relate to the resettlement and irrigation components. Those
relating to resettlement serve to reinforce those derived from other Chinese reservoir
resettlement projects. Lessons are:
(a)   the need to carefully appraise: proposed institutional arrangements for
resettlement, both at overall project level and implementation (county and
township) level; the treatment of land acquisition even where, prima facie,
relocation is not required; the feasibility of "moving back resettlement
strategies where there is a tendency to over-estimate remaining land
resources.
(b)   the need to further advance resettlement planning at the planning stage to
allow better assessment of resettlement strategies, and the preparation of
more accurate cost estimates.
(c)   the need to consider in the project design measures to ensure borrower
commitment to all elements important to the success of the project,
including increased level of Bank financing for these elements and staged
performance targets so that implementation can be carefully monitored.






- 1 -
CHINA
DAGUANGBA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 3412/CREDIT 2305)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The Daguangba Multipurpose Project is located in the western part of Hainan
Island, the driest and poorest region of the Hainan Province. As a newly established
province in China, Hainan's potential for economic growth remained largely untapped
partly due to the lack of infrastructure. It was in this context that the Project was
approved by the Bank and the Government of China (GOC).
2.    The main objectives of the Project were to:
(a)   increase the development of non-polluting and cost-effective hydropower
resources to provide needed peaking power in a predominantly thermal
system;
(b)   increase agricultural production to meet the needs of a growing
population;
(c)   increase the income of the poor farmers by intensifying agricultural
production and increasing the productivity of cropland by alleviating water
shortages and optimizing the cropping pattern;
(d)   improve the environmental quality and public health of the region by
implementing an environmental management program;
(e)   promote prudent investment programming and strengthen local
capabilities in development planning of both power and agricultural
sectors;
(f)   promote rational pricing of electricity and irrigation water; and
(g)   enhance the operational efficiency and financial management of HEPCO.
3.    The development-based resettlement of the reservoir population, while not singled
out as a specific development objective, would be carried out in the context of OPN 10.08
and OMS 2.33. These Bank directives called for the relocation of reservoir population in
a manner that would leave them after relocation as well off as before, possibly better.
4.    To meet the above objectives, the project included two main categories of
components: power and agriculture/resettlement. The power component included:



-2 -
(a)   Construction of a 56 m high, 719 m long gravity dam of roller-compacted
concrete (RCC), flanked by about 5,100 m long earth embankments;
(b)   Construction of an underground powerhouse, equipped with four 60 MW
generation sets, a surge shaft and 420 m long twin tailrace tunnels;
(c)   Erection of about 36 km double circuit 220 kV transmission line and
Changjiang substation;
(d)   Installation of a computerized load dispatch system for the Hainan power
grid; and
(e)   Technical assistance and training in project design, power system planning
and tariff studies, utility and financial management.
5.    The agriculture/resettlement component included:
(a)   Construction of the 16 km long High Main Canal (HMC), about 154 km
long branch/lateral canals and on-farm works for irrigation of about
12,700 ha in Dongfang County, of which about 1,400 ha would be related
to resettlement;
(b)   Resettlement of about 23,800 people in Dongfang and Ledong Counties,
and provision of housing, infrastructure (including public buildings), on-
farm works and land development for irrigation of about 2,300 ha;
(c)   Provision of agricultural support services;
(d)   Provision of environmental management; and
(e)   Technical assistance for the preparation of an agricultural development
plan.
6.    The objectives remained unchanged for the duration of the project. They were
clearly stated. The physical objectives were realistic. The institutional development
objectives may have been too ambitious, given HEPCO's status as a province owned
power bureau and an unlikely candidate to pilot reforms in the power sector. Both power
and agricultural development objectives were important in supporting economic growth
and alleviating poverty in an a very poor region.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    With the successful completion of the dam and the hydropower plant as originally
designed, the project achieved its primary objective of developing hydropower resources,
to provide needed peaking power in a system which is now predominantly thermal.
There have been no major operating problems since the rather extensive teething



-3 -
problems encountered in the early stages of project operation. As of end 1998, about five
years after the commercial operation, all four units have generated a total of electricity of
1,981.3 GWh. The project improved the balance and location of thermal and hydro
power resources in Hainan power grid. It also provides the badly needed functions of
load following and frequency regulation in a grid which has become somewhat
unbalanced towards large thermal plants.
8.    Though the irrigation facilities have not been fully completed due to shortage of
counterpart funds, the project objective of increasing agricultural production and income
of the poor farmers has been partly achieved and there are good prospects to extend this
achievement. The currently completed irrigation facilities can supply water to about
97,100 mu (6,473 ha) of agricultural land, and extensions are currently underway to
increase this by 30,000 mu (2000 ha) by the end of 1999, thus irrigating two thirds of the
originally planned area. In addition, funds have now been allocated to complete works
required to irrigate the full planned area by the end of 2000. The irrigation system
developed under the project can also supply water for industrial and residential use. It
plays a significant role in alleviating the long-term drought situation in the southwest area
of the province.
9.    The ex-post Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR), based on a minimum
proxy of "willingness to pay" for power benefits is calculated as 16.1 percent in
comparison with 15.0 percent estimated at appraisal using similar methodologies. The
appraisal estimate is exceeded despite the fact that the irrigation component is not
complete and energy generation has been less than planned because of drought, because
of higher demonstrated willingness to pay for power and higher irrigation benefits due to
improved cropping patterns.
10.   The objective of improving environmental quality and public health of the region
by implementing an environmental management program has been at least partly
achieved with a general improvement of public health in resettlement villages. Hygiene
and sanitation have considerably improved and infectious diseases are dramatically down
since before the move. The standard of health care in the villages has also improved
considerably.
11.   The major shortcoming in achievement of objectives is in relation to the
restoration of income of resettlers. The overall standard of resettlement housing and
community facilities is better than before the move, and based on sample surveys,
average income is about 10 percent higher than that before the move, after allowing for
inflation. However, incomes are unevenly distributed among the resettlement villages.
Among 29 resettlement villages, only 7 villages have increased per capita income, while
some 40 percent have incomes which are still at least 20 percent lower than before the
move. Development plans have been prepared specifically targeted at the areas which are
having difficulties re-establishing income, and budgets have been approved by central
government authorities. However, both the provincial government and HEPCO have
suffering severe funding shortages due to the economic downturn and fund allocations



-4 -
have arrived very slowly. The situation is expected to improve with the allocation on
September 13, 1999 of a provincial development loan to enable the resettlement
development work to be completed.
12.   Success in achieving objectives of promoting rational pricing of electricity and
irrigation water has been limited. While power pricing studies were completed, the
proposed tariff structure reform was not implemented because of lack of approval from
the provincial government. Water charges are being levied but are well below O&M
costs. Similarly, achievements with respect to the objective of enhancing the operational
efficiency and financial management of HEPCO are also modest.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Background
13.   The major factors affecting the project during preparation and implementation
largely relate to the changing administrative, political and economic enviromnent during
this period summarized as follows:
(a)   At the time of project identification, Hainan had only recently been
granted provincial status and establishment of government administrative
arrangements, including the status of HEPCO, significantly slowed down
decision making. To some extent this administrative uncertainty continued
throughout the preparation and implementation period with HEPCO's
relationship to the provincial government changing several times. It was
initially established as a provincial power bureau under the provincial
government. Later it "piloted" a separation of government and commercial
functions (although allocation of functions to bureau and company did not
seem to have been thought through). It was then established as a joint
stock company with joint ownership by provincial and local governments.
Finally, it went back to being a wholly owned subsidiary of the provincial
government. Throughout this process it appears to have had little
autonomy from the provincial government, and required approvals for
virtually all activities. This was complicated by several changes for
responsibility for HEPCO within the government.
(b)   The processing of the project in the Bank was adversely affected by the
political events of 1989. Appraisal occurred in April 1989, but Board
presentation was delayed until October, 1991. Large scale work started on
the dam in March, 1990. Before Board presentation, Bank staff were
limited in their ability to influence events on site with respect to
construction, resettlement etc.
(c)   The project design (in the larger sense) was very much dictated by the
desire of the Hainan authorities to limit the use of foreign exchange,



- 5 -
particularly as the central government was insisting from the outset that
Hainan should assume the responsibility for foreign exchange
convertibility for loan repayment. Bank finance was thus limited to
peripheral elements rather than the main work.
(d)   Over the course of project preparation and implementation, Hainan went
through a period of explosive economic growth from 1987 to 1995 with
HEPCO energy sales increasing 25 percent per year on average. For 1997
and 1998 this reduced to about three percent before recovering to about II
percent in 1998. The high growth period resulted in large provincial
government commitments to infrastructure investments and power
company commitments to power purchases, which left both in constrained
financial conditions during the ensuing slow down.
Power Component
14.   The Power component consisted of construction of a dam, an underground power
house, associated transmission lines and substations, and installation of a computerized
load dispatch system for the Hainan power grid, as well as the related technical assistance
and training.
Implementation Organization
15.   HEPCO, the owner of the project, was also the implementing agency. For the
Daguangba Hydroelectric Power Plant, a special and temporary organization - the Project
Comrmand Office - was set up to manage construction. Mid-South Investigation and
Design Institute (MSDI) served as the designer. Guangxi Electric Power Investigation
and Design Institute served as the supervision engineer. A Special Board of Consultants
consisting of domestic and international experts was also appointed to provide consulting
and advisory services during the project implementation. The dam and powerhouse civil
works and equipment were not financed by the Bank and contracts were awarded based
on local procedures. The Changjiang Gezhouba Project Construction Bureau was selected
as the civil works contractor. Dongfang Electric Power Equipment Corporation was the
supplier of the turbine and generator sets and the Tenth Water Resources and
Hydropower Project Bureau conducted the installation of mechanical and electrical
equipment.
Implementation Status
16.   The implementation schedule included in the SAR provided for commencement
of the main civil works in the second quarter of 1990, commissioning of the first unit in
the third quarter of 1993, the second unit in December 1993, the third unit in September
1994 and the fourth unit in December 1994.
17.   The dam and power plant were started and completed basically in line with the
above schedule. The civil works began in March 1990. It took 63 months for the



-6 -
concrete dam to reach its design height in June 1995, involving concrete volumes of
910,900 m3 including 258,500 m3 roller-compacted concrete (RCC). Generating Unit 1
started operation on December 29, 1993, followed by Unit 2 on May 26, 1994, Unit 3 on
October 29, 1994 and Unit 4 on March 29, 1995. The entire power component was
completed and put into commercial operation on December 30, 1995.
18.   The associated power transmission facilities constructed under the project
included: (a) double circuit 220 kV transmission lines from Daguangba Hydropower
Plant to Emaoling (the length of the double circuit lines are 35.3 km and 35.5 km
respectively); (b) 220 kV transmission line from Emaoling to Basuo in the length of 48.9
km; (c) 220 kV transmission line from Basuo to Sanya in a length of 145.3 km; (d)
extension of Emaoling 220 kV substation (with 2 GIS bays and 2 x 120 MVA
transformer capacity) which was completed and started operation in November 1993; and
(e) a new 220 kV substation in Sanya City, which was put into operation in July 1995.
The scope of the transmission component exceeds that envisaged at appraisal in that the
original project scope simply provided for the connection of the Daguangba project to the
grid at Emaoling including extension of the substation there. In May 1993, the Bank
agreed that Bank financing could also be used to finance the purchase of materials and
equipment for a line from Emaoling to Basuo and thence to Sanya including a new
substation at Sanya. This reinforcement provided for a more effective usage of
Daguangba power in the Hainan grid taking into account the rapid growth rates in the
Sanya region. The additional lines and substation also serve to strengthen the
interconnection between north and south load centers of Hainan.
Implementation Experience
19.   Adoption of Roller-Compacted Concrete (RCC). RCC was adopted in the
construction of the Daguangba gravity dam. In the preliminary design, volcanic ash was
selected to be the binding mixture in the process of making RCC. However, tests showed
that the volcanic ash it was planned to use contained 50 percent of material which would
accelerate setting and also cause drying shrinkage. Therefore, extensive testing was
conducted on fly ash (which was available from a thermal power plant in the area) as a
substitute for the volcanic ash and this testing eventually proved its suitability.
20.   The proportion of the dam that was composed of RCC is substantially less - 28
percent - than in the original design, which projected 57 percent. This is attributed to the
fact that detailing of the dam had been imperfectly adapted to accommodate RCC placing
methods and the contractor found it impractical to use RCC in many areas. Review of the
design by specialists with more experience in RCC may have allowed for the planned
proportion of RCC to have been achieved with concomitant cost savings.
21.   Geological Treatment of the Main Dam Foundation. Following completion of
the dam and during reservoir filling, abnormal downstream movement (maximum about
11 mnm) was recorded in relation to one dam block. Drilling revealed a zone of weathered
material, which was considered to be responsible for the movement beneath the dam,



- 7 -
which of the reservoir filling was temporarily halted and a 14 member panel was
assembled to advise on required remedial works. Based on the recommendations of the
panel, a program of drainage, buttress construction and anchoring was recommended and
promptly implemented. On resumption of dam filling, no further abnonmal movements
were observed
Agriculture/Irrigation Component
Overview
22.   During the initial identification of the Daguangba project, the irrigation
component was limited to that associated with the resettlement in Dongfang County, with
further development of the High Main Canal and the area served by it left to the future.
However, the Bank preparation team found that, as a pure power project, the economic
justification of Daguangba was particularly sensitive to load growth projections, and
therefore requested that the full development of the Stage 1 irrigation area be included in
the scope of the project. Significantly, however, Bank financing was not increased to
cover this additional scope. The project file records the visit of a deputy governor to the
site during the "hiatus" period, and his confirmation that the provincial government
would take responsibility for the implementation of the full Stage 1 development.
However, during project supervision in October 1996, the mission discovered that the
government were not intending to develop the full area until well into the future. The
mission reminded the government of their commitment in accordance with the Hainan
agreement, and followed up several times after that. While these endeavors succeeded to
some extent, by the end of 1998 the irrigation area developed and supplied with water as
limited to 55 percent that envisaged at appraisal. Plans were to complete the balance by
the end of 2000, but until recently definite funding had only been identified to cover
about one fourth of this expansion. The situation has recently improved with provincial
govemrnment approval of an allocation of loan funds available to the government to cover
the financing gap.
Irrigation Development.
23.   Despite the non-completion of the second phase of the HMC, and the associated
restriction of irrigated area, physical targets of the irrigation component, as laid out in the
SAR were largely achieved. The Phase I construction involved the construction of the
HMC with a length of about 14.7 km and a discharge capacity of 14 cum/sec (about 94.2
and 116.7 percent of the SALR), 57.7 km of main branch canals (196 percent of the SAR),
47.1 km of lateral branch canals (245.3 percent of the SAR) and some 175.4 km of field
ditches (154.8 percent of the SAR. Detailed comparisons are included in Table 5. The
irrigation on-farm works resulted in improving 30, 000 mu of existing and expanding
97,100 mu of new irrigation areas, making a total of 127,100 mu (about 67 percent of the
SAR). The extensions for Phase II are currently underway to increase this to 190, 000 mu
(12,667 ha) by the end of 2000. The budget for HMC extension, approved by the
government, is Y68 million. To date, about Y18 million has been financed, leaving a



- 8 -
financing gap of Y50 million. On September 13, 1999 the Provincial Development
Planning Department approved an allocation from provincial development loan of YIOO
million (Y50 million for the HMC, and Y50 million for resettlement). A copy of the
approval document was provided to the Bank. With these funds, HEPCO are optimistic
that remaining works will be completed in the year 2000. Farm development will be by
contributed labor to the estimated value of Y1 7.75 million.
Agricultural Support Services
24.   Achievements in agriculture support services substantially exceed appraisal
targets. For agricultural inputs, one seed company was established, which supplied 225
kg/ha of quality seeds. A total of 2,836 tons of fertilizer and 141.8 tons of agro-
chemicals were procured and distributed to the project area. Some 22 sets of agricultural
machinery and equipment, and 110 tractors were purchased and operated to increase the
level of farm mechanization. On land and soil improvement, some 9,122 ha of cultivated
land were leveled and some 1,789 ha of soil improved. Agro-technical extension services
system were strengthened with construction and rehabilitation of four new county and
township centers, and introduction of various new production technologies.
Training
25.   The project provided institutional strengthening and development mainly through
staff training in project implementation and management and upgrading of technical
skills and competence at all provincial and local government levels. Farmers completed
1,200 person-months of training, project staff 95 person-months, and project managers 8
person-months during implementation of the irrigation component. In addition, domestic
study tours involving 30 person months and 450 person-months of domestic consultancy
services were provided.
Resettlement
Implementation Organizations
26.   Resettlement planning was carried out by MSDI and they were also employed
periodically throughout implementation to carry out supplementary planning and to
develop revised budgets for submission to central government authorities. In 1990,
resettlement organizations were set up in the two affected counties and three state farms.
In addition, for overall management of implementation, a resettlement office, with staff
seconded from provincial departments, was set up under HEPCO project office. Unlike
most other Chinese reservoir resettlement projects, there was no provincial resettlement
office to provide leadership to the county offices in resettlement implementation.
27.   HEPCO also employed MSDI to carry out a program of independent resettlement
monitoring and evaluation as foreseen at appraisal. This monitoring and evaluation by
MSDI is taking place over a five year period (1995 to 2000) and involves samples of 327
households and all 29 resettlement villages. The annual reports of this program have



- 9 -
proved to be very valuable in providing HEPCO and the Bank with regular information
on progress of physical relocation, economic rehabilitation, and other measures of well-
being of the resettled population.
Implementation Experience
28.   The detailed resettlement plan, prepared in 1987, provided for the relocation and
re-establishment of 20,516 persons living in 29 villages, 6 townships, two counties, 80
percent of whom were rural, and 20 percent urban'. The plan summarized in Annex 16 of
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), provided for resettlement to be primarily land based.
Each resettler would be provided with one mu of paddy and one mu of dry land plus
some additional land for tropical trees crops, housing plot and fuel wood. All paddy land
was to be irrigated.
29.   Actual numbers of people requiring relocation increased to 22,243. This includes
1682 persons in three villages which were not originally planned to be relocated since
village infrastructure and buildings were not to be inundated. However, a 1997 survey
revealed that remaining land resources were not viable and relocation became necessary.
The total number is still less than the SAR estimate of 23,800 people. However, the
above numbers do not include a further 5,343 people in 13 additional villages who are
affected by loss of land, raising the total number of project affected persons (PAPs) to
27,586. Some allowance was evidently included in initial budgets as compensation for
lost land in these areas but no detailed rehabilitation planning was carried out. Detailed
rehabilitation plan for villages affected by loss of land only were not prepared until the
end of 1997.
30.   The original resettlement budget was Y 150.5 million. This was adjusted twice
during implementation, in 1993 and in late 1997 primarily for inflation, but in the last
adjustment to fully take into account rehabilitation measures which would be needed for
land loss villages. The finally approved budget was Y 269.4 million. However, because
of slow arrival of funds from the provincial government, by the end of 1998 only Y 206.3
million had been allocated by HEPCO.
31.   Achievements of the resettlement plan up until the end of 1998, included:
(a)   Relocation of 22,243 persons, 18,162 of whom were agricultural;
(b)   Construction of 318,810 m2 of new housing and 107,837 m2 of community
facilities, providing 11.2 percent more floor space of considerably higher
quality than before the move;
(c)   Development of 25,002 mu of land accounting for 93.3 percent of the plan
target. However for land-loss villages, because of the late start and lack of
The SAR used a figure of approximately 23,800 people based on "1990 survey data adjusted for growth". No details
of this survey are on file.



- 10-
finance, only 14 percent of land development targets had been achieved,
mostly located in two newly relocated villages although the pace of land
development is accelerating now with the allocation of additional funds.
32.   Restoration of livelihood is being achieved albeit gradually. According to the 327
sample household survey by MSDI, the average per-capita income of all resettlers in
1997 was Y 532, which was 10 percent higher than that in 1996 and 9.7 percent higher
than before the move after allowing for inflation. However, income restoration was
unevenly distributed among resettlement villages, with only seven of 29 villages restoring
their income on a per-capita basis. In general, these are villages that moved to Datian
resettlement area (served by the HMIC) which now have reliable irrigation and developed
paddy. Another third of villages seem to be on the way towards restoration of income.
These are generally "moving back" villages in Ledong and Dongfang which have
relatively greater land resources and developed irrigation. However, about 40 percent of
villages have a per-capita income in 1997 at least 20 percent below that before the move.
Development plans have been prepared specifically targeted at the areas which are having
difficulties re-establishing income, and budgets have been approved by central
government authorities. However, both the provincial government and HEPCO have
been suffering severe funding shortages due to the economic downturn and fund
allocations are arrived very slowly. The situation has recently improved with the
provincial government approval, on August 13, 1999, of an allocation from the provincial
development loan, which will basically cover the funding shortfall.
Environmental Issues
33.   It is evident from a review of correspondence in the project preparation phase that
health issues were of primary concern to resettlement specialists, particularly infectious
diseases such as malaria and hepatitis. The Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation
program reports have consistently described a general improvement in health and hygiene
in resettlement areas. With the establishment of a medical service network, access to
health care has been greatly improved. Access to potable water has also generally
improved in comparison with pre-move conditions, and work is continuing to ensure all
resettlement villages will have access to potable water in all seasons. Sanitation is also
substantially better in the new villages. All of these factors have resulted in substantial
drops in the incidence of infectious diseases as can be seen from the following table,
although there was a partical resurgence of Malaria in 1997. This was reportedly due to
several factors including climate factors in 1997, and the extension of access roads to
poorer isolated areas, thus extending reporting to these areas.



Infectious Diseases Among Resettlers
Incidence per 1,000 Population
1992      1993       1994      1995        1996       1997
Malaria             6.80       5.00      4.25       2.39       1.82       3.65
Dysentery           0.75       0.67      0.10       0.14       0.04       0.08
Hepatitis           0.25       0.51      0.21       0.10       0.12       0.06
Measles             0.00       0.05      0.32       0.01       0.01       0.00
Poliomyelitis       0.00       0.01      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
7.00-
6.00
5.00 .[ Malaria
4.00                      l          Dysentery
3.00      l                          Hepattis
2.00 -j Measles
1.00      L                          Poliomyelitis
I0.00Mb1           l_
csi  co   v   Un  co  rl-
O    0)     0')    0')    01)
CD 0   0   0)   )  0)
34.   In relation to other issues raised in the SAR:
(a)    Water quality monitoring is less frequent than desirable. However, results
to date show no change from the pre-project situation i.e. generally high
quality except for an excessive bacterial count attributed largely to human
waste from Ledong upstream. The project financed sewage treatment plant
for this area has only just been completed (due to lack of finance) and
when the completion mission visited the site was still not in operation.
Since then, HEPCO have reported that it commenced trial operation on
August 18, 1999. Water quality should be fully acceptable when the plant
comes into full operation.
(b)    Protection of the rare Datian deer has been improved by partially fencing-
in and patrolling the protected area. The deer population is reported to
have increased from about 40 at the time of appraisal to over 200.
(c)    The afforestation around the reservoir rim recommended by the SAR has
been partially implemented. Houiniling forestry farm land planted,
between 1991 and 1992, 2,400 mu of forest on the right bank of Changhua
river, and 600 mu of forest in Datian area. The trees are mainly
eucalyptus. Erosion into the reservoir is not significant.



- 12 -
(d)   The slight moderation in temperature adjacent to the reservoir (attributable
to the reservoir itself) is reported to be beneficial to agriculture.
35.   In the irrigation area, the completed irrigation and drainage facilities, land and soil
improvements, and afforestation (forest belts and fruit trees) have improved the land
productivity and enhanced the general ecological environment of the project area. The
increased water diversion to the western region of Hainan has improved the environment
for agriculture, aquaculture, urban and rural water supply.
Procurement
36.   The procurement under the project was conducted in line with the agreed
arrangements as stipulated in the Legal Agreements and SAR. Overall, 94 contracts
worth $70 million equivalent were executed. As shown in the table below, ICB was the
major procurement method used under the project, accounting for 67.7% of total contract
value, in comparison with 63 percent projected in the SAR, followed by NCB for civil
works contracts for irrigation and resettlement components. Procurement was generally
uneventful. The only incidents occurred during initial LCB contracts when it was found
that prior review procedures were not being correctly followed. On an exceptional basis,
the Bank carried out post-review and accepted the contracts for financing.
Procurement             No. of Contracts             Contract Value
Method               Number      % of Total   Value ($'000)   % of Total
ICB                    33           35.1       47,403.5          67.7
LIB & IS               17           18.1        1,132.1           1.6
NCB (Works)            44           46.8       21,467.8          30.7
Total                  94          100.0       70,003.3         100.0
Consultants
Project Management Consultants
37.   The SAR envisaged that HEPCO would employ foreign consultants to assist
HEPCO in managing project construction. In the event, this did not occur. Because of
the delay in loan approval, the civil works commenced well before the effectiveness of
the Bank loan. In early supervision missions, the Bank attempted to catalyze the
employment of international consultants. Shortlists and terms of reference were agreed
and proposals were requested from three firms. The Bank questioned HEPCO's
recommendation for award. Protracted correspondence ensued. Eventually, HEPCO
advised that the construction was already at its peak and local project managers seemed to
be performing effectively and there was no longer any need to employ foreign
consultants, particularly in view of the scarcity of foreign exchange. The Bank accepted
HEPCO's decision.



- 13 -
Special Board of Consultants
38.   Earlier in the project a Special Board of Consultants (financed by Technical
Cooperation Credit), consisting of domestic and international experts, was appointed to
provide certain quality control for the project. The consultants conducted three missions
respectively in the preparation stage of construction, early stage of construction, and peak
period of construction. They reviewed the preliminary design, construction drawings and
the project site situation, and provided many suggestions and recommendations related to
design, construction and future operation. Most of the suggestions and recommendations
were adopted and proved to be useful.
Project Costs and Loan Disbursement
39.   Project Costs. The estimated cost of the project at appraisal (excluding interest
during construction) was $59.1 million in foreign costs and Y 754.5 million in local
costs, equivalent to a total of$ 193.0 million (Y 1,086.5 million). The final cost was
$68.4 million in foreign costs and Y954.1 million in local costs, equivalent to a total of
$197.5 million (Y1,514.4 million) (see Table 8a and 8b for details). Considering overall
costs (foreign plus local), there is an apparent cost overrun of some 2.3 percent when
expressed in US dollars and 39.4 percent when expressed in local currency. The
difference in the two figures for cost overrun is due to the higher-than-expected-inflation
in China (91 percent between 1991 to 1996 compared with 37.5 percent estimated) and
the devaluation of the local currency from an exchange rate of Y5.24 to the dollar at the
time of appraisal to Y8.70 to the $1 in 1993 (with a slight recovery to 8.30 thereafter).
The comparison of costs expressed in US dollars is considered to give a reasonable
estimate of cost overrun excluding the effects of inflation and devaluation. Comparing
the two sets of figures, major deviations are noted in the areas of civil works, canals and
on-farm works beyond those required for resettlement. The civil work cost increase can
be largely attributed to the increased proportion of conventional concrete in relation to
RCC referred to earlier. The reduction in costs in relation to the irrigation canals can be
attributed to the fact that this component is so far incomplete and the incomplete status
has been taken into account in the economic analysis. The transmission cost increase
relates to the revision of project scope to include the line to Sanya and an additional
substation as referred to earlier. Given the size of the project and the uncertainties
involved, this slight increase of 2.3 percent is considered to be reasonable.
40.   Loan Disbursement. A comparison of the estimated loan disbursements at
appraisal with the actual disbursements is given in Table 4. Loan disbursement was
slower than the appraisal schedule in earlier years due to initial procurement delays for
Bank financed contracts. However, by FY95 disbursements had accelerated and
cumulative disbursements had reached 94 percent of the total amount of loan and credit.
Thereafter, remaining funds were progressively reallocated to priority areas such as
resettlement civil works, disbursement of which occupied the remaining time until project
closure. Both the loan and the credit were fully disbursed. The last disbursement was
made on February 24, 1999 for the loan and on March 3, 1999 for the credit.



- 14 -
Economic Performance
Power Benefits
41.   At appraisal an analysis was carried out to verify that the Daguangba power
project was part of the least cost development for the Hainan grid by comparing it with a
notional thermal alternative (85 MW coal and 225 MW gas turbine). A similar analysis
was carried out for the ICR. Capital costs and fuel costs were derived based on recent
project justification reports for power projects in China. Distillate was assumed as fuel
for the gas turbine, rather than gas as assumed in the appraisal report as gas supplies to
Hainan are fully committed, and there are no immediate plans for further resource
development. The analysis summarized in Table 9A, yielded hydropower costs (at 10
percent discount rate )of 46.4 fen/kWh if all joint costs are allocated to power and 40.5
fen/kWh if allocation of joint costs is carried out in accordance with the "separable-costs-
remaining-benefits" methodology. This compares with an alternative thermal cost of
61.7 fen/kWh. The equalizing discount rate is 21 percent ofjoint costs are fully allocated
to power and increasing to 41 percent if they are only partially allocated to power. The
ratio of hydro to alternative thermal costs, assuming full allocation of joint costs is 75
percent compared to 53 percent estimated at appraisal. Differences can be explained by
conservative allocation of full transmission costs (increased scope) to the hydro project,
and that the appraisal analysis evidently did not allow for lower energy generation in
early years until completion of spillway crest gates. Nevertheless, it is clear that
Daguangba is considerably more economical than a thermal alternative.
Agricultural Benefits
42.   The investment in the irrigation component has brought significant benefits in
terms of increased agricultural yields and production due to the expanded irrigation
facilities, improved extension services and input availability. The project was successful
in expanding and improving an irrigation area of 8,473 ha with increases of crop
intensity. At project completion, major grain crops (rice, corn, bean and sweet potato)
and cash crops (off-season vegetables, sugarcane, mango and watermelon) generally
exceeded the SAR-projected yields and production for the full development. Table 6B
shows the area cultivated, yields and production achieved for each crop.
43.   The main crop yields currently achieved in the project area are 4.7 tons for rice
(109.2 percent of SAR), 1.9 tons for beans (105.8 percent of SAR), 10.3 tons for
vegetables (103.1 percent of SAR), 51 tons for sugarcane (102 percent of SAR), and
21,221 tons for mangos (102.5 percent of SAR), respectively. Preliminary data show a
further increase in yields and production for cash crop as farmners fully utilize the climate
advantage of Hainan to diversify crop production and increase inputs in response to
higher market prices. The total annual crop production increased during the project
period (in 1998) by about 21,048 tons for rice, 2,653 tons for other grain, 1,594 tons for
peanuts, 10,373 tons for off-season vegetables, 98,673 tons for sugarcane, 17,028 tons for
mangos, 1,420 tons for pineapples, and 3,294 tons for melons. The increased outputs



- 15 -
from various crops resulted in higher incomes for beneficiary farmn households. The
annual gross value of crop production was estimated at about Y 197 million.
Rural Income and Poverty Reduction
44.   The component has effectively reduced the incidence of poverty for the household
beneficiaries (2,270 families/10,529 persons) in the project area, especially for about
5000 of the poorest famnilies in the western region of Hainan. The implementation of the
project generated employment opportunities, both short- and long-term, including
employment for women. An annual increase of about three million labor-days per year,
equivalent to about 10,000 new jobs have been created. Together with the production
gains especially from high-value cash crops, the project has helped to raise the income
level of the farmers. The MSDI sample surveys of farm income among resettlement
villages in the irrigation area indicated that villages which are served by the HMC have
increased their income by an average of about 30 percent over that before the move after
allowing for inflation. No detailed data has been collected in relation to non-resettlers,
but spot interviews indicate a much larger increase, attributable to the fact that per capita
land areas are considerably greater.
Indirect Benefits
45.   The irrigation project has contributed to an increase in local government revenues
through the collection of agricultural and special product taxes derived from the expanded
irrigated/reclamation land and the change of the cropping pattern (increased high-value
cash crops) in the project area. The local govermments, in turn, have invested in
infrastructure (roads, electricity, water supply, etc.) and other social amenities (health
clinics, schools, etc.), all of which have contributed to the overall improvement of the
quality of life for the project beneficiaries.
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
46.   At appraisal, an EIRR of 15% was calculated for the project as a whole based on
the estimated benefits of power and irrigation. In the absence of willingness-to-pay data
long run marginal cost was used as a proxy for benefit. For the ICR a "willingness-to-
pay" type of analysis was carried out ex-post using prices of energy sold to the grid in
1996, plus power development surcharges applied at provincial levels. The generation
tariff assumed was a 50/50 blend of two current generation tariffs: 59 fen/kWh from a
300 MW coal fired power plant and 65 fen/kWh for new industrial gas turbines burning
gas2. The operating pattern for Daguangba supports this split with about 50 percent of
output being scheduled for peaking. Surcharges of 2.4 fen/kWh for power development
funds which are added at the consumer level were added to give a total tariff at generation
level of 64.4 fen/kWh. The calculated ex-post EIRR with joint costs allocated in
2 This is less than the 74 fen/kWh tariff recommended for Daguangba by expert team from SPDC and construction
Bank but considerably more than the 37 fen/kWh "temporary" tariff currently allowed by the pricing
commission.



- 16 -
accordance with the "separable-costs-remaining-benefits" methodology is 16.1 percent
overall, 16.4 percent for power and 15.1 percent for irrigation. Table 9B provides details.
HEPCO Financial Performance
47.   Comparative financial statements containing the appraisal projections and the
actual data for the period of project implementation (1991 through 1998) are summarized
in Annex A. Over the seven-year period of project implementation, HEPCO's energy
sales have increased by a factor of 2.9, an average increase of 27.2 percent per annum,
reflecting the fast economic growth in Hainan Province, the largest special economic
zone in China. The average tariff has been increased by 65.3% from 32.0 fen/kWh in
1991 to 52.9 fen/kWh in 1998 (representing about six percent increase in dollar terms).
The actual operating revenue in 1998 amounted to Y 1.45 billion, about 4.8 times of that
in 1991 and 44.8 percent higher than projected at appraisal. Along with the increase in
revenues, operating expenses also rose but more rapidly, largely due to much higher than
expected power purchase costs. This resulted from changes in the power sector structure,
whereby most new power plants were built by independent or semi-independent joint
investment partnerships which sell power to the HEPCO grid. HEPCO role has thus
changed to certain extent to that of a purchasing agency and transmission utility. HEPCO
was profitable until 1996, but suffered losses in both 1997 (Y 1.6 million) and 1998 (Y
43.2 million). The main factor behind this change in fortune was the sharp slow down in
demand growth that occurred in 1996, after HEPCO had entered into substantial power
purchase commitments at high prices. Purchased power costs doubled from 1995 to
1996, while average tariff is actually lower in 1998 than 1995 due to lack of provincial
government approval to pass through tariffs determined on the basis of the central
government's "new power/new price" policy. For example, the "temporary" tariff
approved by the provincial pricing commission for Daguangba power plant is only 37 fen
per kWh in comparison with 74 fen recommended by a task force composed of
representatives from Construction Bank and State Development and Planning
Commission (SDPC). Another contributing factor to the losses is the wet season failure
in 1998 which resulted in low inflows and low reservoir levels severely limiting the
energy generation of Daguangba.
48.   Three financial covenants were included in the Legal Agreements, namely:
HEPCO should (a) cover all operating costs and debt service in 1991/92, and maintain a
self-financing ratio of not less than 20 percent in 1993, 25 percent in 1994, and 30 percent
thereafter; (b) ensure that its debt service coverage ratio is not less that 1.1 times in 1991-
1993, 1.2 times in 1994-1996, and 1.3 times thereafter; and (c) maintain a debt/equity
ratio of no more than 85/15 in 1991, 80/20 in 1992/93, 75/25 in 1994/95 and 70/30
thereafter. Over the course of project implementation, HEPCO has been basically in
compliance with debt service and debt equity covenants, but has generally not been in
compliance with self financing covenants, and failed to break even in 1997 and 1998.



- 17-
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
49.   Technically, the dam, power plant constructed under the project are of good
quality, are being adequately maintained and operated. HEPCO could improve reservoir
operations to maximize benefits. Financially, the "temporary" tariff allowed by the
provincial government would not be adequate to sustain it as an independent power plant.
However, as an operating unit of HEPCO its operations budget and debt repayment are
being maintained. While HEPCO is in financial difficulties, it remains solvent partially
through transfers from the provincial power development as "debt swaps". The situation
should improve as power demand continues to recover and excess generating capacity is
absorbed.
50.   The irrigation component is likely to be sustainable because of: the good quality
of the completed works; the commitment of the local government in the project area; the
newly developed agricultural commodity (tropical crops) production bases; clearly
defined and assigned responsibility in O&M Regulation of the HMC System to ensure
sustained operation of the completed irrigation facilities; the effective agricultural support
services system to_ensure sustained agricultural production; and project-promoted growth
of the local economy and generated revenue for the local governments that, in return,
provide continued support for the project area.
51.   The rehabilitation strategy for resettlement is land based supplemented by income
from tropical tree crops, and therefore is potentially sustainable in all cases.
Sustainability has been proven for about 60 percent of resettlers. For the remaining 40
percent it will be sustainable provided existing plans for land development and provision
of irrigation facilities are implemented.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
52.   During project preparation, there appears to have been a tendency to equate the
project with similar power projects in China and underestimate the effect of special
circumstances such as the multipurpose nature of the project, the fact that the power
company involved was under the province rather than the state, and that Hainan itself had
only recently been upgraded to provincial level. However, internal review procedures
resulted in adequate consideration being given to these matters. The originally scheduled
appraisal review meeting was downgraded to a peer review meeting and a further pre-
appraisal mission was undertaken. During the hiatus period, several brief missions were
carried out in conjunction with other operational work in China, followed by a full post-
appraisal mission to update data and analyses. Thus, by the time the project was
presented to the Board all important issues had been addressed. One shortcoming in the
appraisal process was the apparent failure to recognize inadequate resettlement planning
in relation to villages which lost a major portion of their land but were not planned to be
relocated. In addition, more consideration could have been given to methods of ensuring
the provincial government met its commitment to irrigation development beyond that
required for resettlement, including specific covenants and partial Bank financing.



- 18 -
53.   After loan approval, supervision was initially light, with the first supervision
mission not occurring until about 15 months after Board presentation, although
procurement review was intensive during this period. After this, supervision was
intensified, particularly when it was recognized that there were shortcomings in
resettlement implementation. From 1992 to 1999, there were a total of 14 missions 13 of
which included a resettlement specialist. These missions (and the leverage applied at the
time of closing date extension and ICR rating) played a role in improving resettlement
implementation, including the contracting of the independent resettlement monitoring and
evaluation program, the 1998 adjustment to the resettlement budget, preparation of a
supplementary resettlement plan for land loss villages in 1998, the establishment of the
reservoir maintenance fund in May, 1999 and finally in the approval of supplementary
funds for the HMC Phase 2 and resettlement in August 1999. After recognition, in 1997,
of the provincial governnent's intention to curtail irrigation development to the area
serviced by the HiMC Phase 1, supervision missions also focused on this aspect.3
54.   Overall, it is considered that the Bank's performance was satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
55.   The assessment of Borrower performance needs to cover the signatory to the
various agreements: central and provincial governments and HEPCO. HEPCO's
performance was good in relation to those aspects about which it cared most: the
construction of the dam, power plant, transmission lines etc. It also performed adequately
in construction of the HMC and reviewing and coordinating resettlement implementation.
The resettlement office under HEPCO made great efforts in relation to the latter function.
On the other hand, resettlement budget allocation apparently received a lower priority by
HEPCO in comparison with other project components, often resulting in slow allocations
and delayed completion of relocation and rehabilitation targets, although the slow arrival
of provincial government funding was cited as the main reason for such delays. The
central government generally performed satisfactorily including the approval of necessary
revisions in revised resettlement budgets, not however without the usual delays
associated with such revisions. It was also instrumental in putting together a financing
plan for completion of the agricultural and resettlement components at the time of closing
date extension in late 1997. However, this was not modified when the planned
contribution from the Construction Bank of China did not materialize. The performance
of the provincial government has been disappointing in the areas of fund allocation,
approval of tariff level for Daguangba, approval of consumer tariff structure changes,
approval of level of reservoir maintenance fund and approval of overseas training
programs. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that financing difficulties have
been exacerbated by the East Asia economic crisis. The provincial government has now
3 The reason that this was not recognized earlier was due to confusion in the SAR definition of project scope which
included HMC Stage 1, but the lengths given only covered Phase I of Stage 1. The remainder was apparently
intended to be covered by Other Canals and On-Farm Works financed by the provincial government.



- 19-
allocated funds to complete the project and HEPCO report that tariff restructuring is
being accelerated. Considered as a whole Borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
56.   The overall assessment must take into account: the satisfactory achievement of
objectives with regard to the power plant including environmental matters, the largely
achieved objectives of the irrigation component, the limited achievement of institutional
development objectives, and the currently unsatisfactory outcome with regard to the
resettlement project, which however could be reversed in the near term with the recently
approved allocation of resources and increased attention to this matter by HEPCO and the
provincial government. Overall, a rating of Satisfactory is assigned.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
Power Plant
57.   The Daguangba Hydropower Plant commenced operation on December 29, 1993
with the commissioning of the first generating unit. The commissioning of the fourth
generating unit was on March 29, 1995. Since its operation, the power plant has
generated a cumulative 1,981.3 GWh with breakdown by year as follows:
Year      1994      1995     1996     1997     1998    Total
GWh       312.4    372.6    426.1    501.5    368.7   1,981.3
58.   The relatively slow buildup of generation can be attributed to the fact that in
accordance with the design schedule, first generating units entered service prior to
completion of spillway crest gates and reservoir filling. The reservoir first filled to full
supply level in November 1996 and in 1997 the generation was close to the design level
of 520 GWh. The decrease in 1998 was due to an exceptional drought in the area
exacerbated by the fact that the dispatchers were overusing Daguangba generation based
on system requirements. The reservoir water level has been at the minimum operating
level for quite some time. The limited amount of water used each day is mainly to meet
demands of irrigation and residential/industrial water supply.
59.   Daguangba Hydropower Plant is well staffed with one director, two deputy
directors (including one chief engineer), 83 employees in plant operation and
maintenance, and 337 employees in non-core service businesses. Comprehensive and
well-documented operation and maintenance procedures are in place to ensure proper
operation and maintenance of the power plant. Methodology for efficient utilization of
water, procedures for regular dam safety inspection and reporting as well as for flood
forecasting and environment monitoring are also in place and followed. Nevertheless, it
appears that there is room for substantial improvement in HEPCO's operation of
Daguangba. Admittedly the project is unique in the HEPCO system and there is no
previous experience in reservoir operation on this scale. Also the relative size of the



- 20 -
project in relation to the overall system will diminish. On the other hand flow diverted for
irrigation - only nominal to date - will increase. As an overall guide, HEPCO should
endeavor to maintain the reservoir at a relatively high level under normal conditions -
closer to the MSDI upper rule curve. This will produce several advantages, namely: (a)
maintaining plant capability at 240 MW; (b) minimizing the risk of reservoir failure, i.e.
draw-down to MOL as at present; and (c) increasing energy by maintaining a higher
average head.
60.   With regard to performance indicators for the future, the State Power Corporation
has set benchmarks including numerous parameters which collectively measure safety,
reliability and efficiency of operation of hydroelectric power plants. Some of the main
performance indicators are listed in Table 6A. In addition, a different set of criteria relate
to factors such as cleanliness, aesthetics and working environment which, if met, qualify
the power plant for "civilized" status. When both of these standards are met the power
plant is accredited as having met the dual standards. A "first class" standard is also in
place involving more rigorous performance indicators for some operating efficiency
factors. The Daguangba power plant has already been accredited as meeting the dual
standards.
Irrigation Facilities
61.   The HMC Phase I was completed and started operation in June 1994. The Water
Resource Bureau of Dongfang City has operated and maintained (O&M) the new
irrigation facilities since May 1994. The High Main Canal Water Management Division
(HMCMD) in the Bureau is the unit responsible for O&M of the HMC irrigation system.
Under HMCMD, four water management stations were set up. The O&M for the main,
sub-main, branch, and lateral canals is carried out by each station according to the O&M
Regulation of the HMC Irrigation System and to a schedule prepared by the Dongfang
Water Resource Bureau. Sub-laterals and field ditches are maintained by water users
twice a year. In addition, each township government, village committee and agro-
economic development organization takes an active part in assisting the water authority in
the O&M work. The agriculture technical support was provided to the project area by the
South China Academy of Tropical Crops and the Dongfang City Agriculture Research
Institute for the introduction, testing, and extension of new and improved varieties. Future
operations will focus on efficient operation and maintenance of the completed irrigation
works and facilities so as to achieve the project's full development. The existing
HMCMD and staff will be maintained to concentrate on O&M aspects of the project. To
further enhance the project's economic benefits, the irrigation areas and agricultural
support service facilities will be progressively adapted to a market-oriented production
economy with a self-supporting operation mechanism, responsible for its own profits and
losses.



- 21 -
Resettlement
62.   With regard to resettlement, about Y 56 million of the approved budget of Y
262.33 million remains to be spent on production development. On June 15, 1999,
HEPCO, based on a review of action plans prepared by the two counties, submitted a plan
outlining a list of remaining resettlement works which need to be completed between July
1999 and June 2000. The total cost for these remaining works totals Y 56 million, but the
source of funds was not identified. The Y50 million recently allocated by the provincial
government should allow general completion of the remaining works after which the
reservoir maintenance fund will generate income based on energy production of about
Y2. 1 million per year for ten years which should sustain annual workplans for the
resettlement unit within HEPCO and two county resettlement offices.
Bank
63.   In line with the management's response to the OED report "Recent Experiences
with Involuntary Resettlement (Report No. 17538), it is recommended that the Bank
continue to supervise the resettlement component until it is clear that incomes have been
restored in real terms, or at least until physical facilities are in place to ensure this. It is
recommended that in FY00, two supervision missions are mounted for this purpose.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
64.   Key lessons mainly relate to the resettlement and irrigation components. Those
relating to resettlement serve to reinforce those derived from other Chinese reservoir
resettlement projects. Lessons are:
(a)   the need to carefully appraise: proposed institutional arrangements for
resettlement, both at overall project level and implementation (county and
township) level; the treatment of land acquisition even where, prima facie,
relocation is not required; the feasibility of "moving back resettlement
strategies where there is a tendency to over-estimate remaining land
resources.
(b)   the need to further advance resettlement planning at the planning stage to
allow better assessment of resettlement strategies, and the preparation of
more accurate cost estimates.
(c)   the need to consider in the project design measures to ensure borrower
commitment to all elements important to the success of the project,
including increased level of Bank financing for these elements and staged
performance targets so that implementation can be carefully monitored.



- 22 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Not
Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Applicable
Macroeconomics policies                                                        X
Sector policies                                                                x
Financial objectives                                            X
Institutional development                          X
Physical objectives                   X
Poverty reduction                                  X
Gender concerns                                                                X
Other social objectives                                                        X
Environmental objectives              X
Public sector management                                                       X
Private sector development                                                     X
Project Sustainability
Likely                               Unlikely                            Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                              X
Preparation assistance                                      X
Appraisal                                                   X
Supervision                                                 X
Borrower Performance
Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                                 X
Implementation                                              X
Covenant compliance                                                         X
Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory      Highly Unsatisfactory
x



- 23 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan Title                           Purpose               Approval           Status
Ln. 2382-CHA           To construct a rockfill dam, a spillway,   02/21/84   Loan was closed on
Lubuge Hydroelectric    an underground powerhouse, to install 4       06/30/92.
Project                generating units of 150 MW each, 3
single circuits of 220 kV transmission
lines; to provide consultant services and a
training program.
Ln. 2493-CHA           To construct a 500 kV transmission line   02/19/85   Loan was closed on
Second Power Project    from Xuzhou to Shanghai and 5                 06/30/92.
associated substations totaling 3,500
MVA in capacity, to install tele-control
and telecomnmunications equipment for
load dispatching, and to provide training
for 400 kV transmission lines and
substations.
Ln. 2706-CHA &         To construct a coal-fired thermal power   05/29/86 & First loan closed
Ln. 2955-CHA           project with two units of 600 MW and    06/14/88   06/30/94. Second loan
Beilungang Thermal    two single circuit of 500 kV transmission       closed 06/30/95.
Power Projects I and II   lines, and to carry out a tariff study, a
study on ZPEPB reorganization and
management improvement and a study
for improvement of distribution networks
for the cities of Ningbo and Hangzhou.
Ln. 2707-CHA           To construct a 110 m high concrete  05/29/86   Loan was closed on
Yantan Hydroelectric   gravity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse,         06/30/94.
Project                and a shiplift; to install 4 generating units
of 275 MW each, 2 single circuits of 500
kV transmnission lines and 3 associated
substations; and to carry out a training
program.
Ln. 2775-CHA &         To construct a 101 m high concrete  01/06/87   Closed 6/30/93.
Shuikou Hydroelectric    gravity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse
Project                and a navigation lock; to install 7
generating units of 200 MW each; to
carry out a resettlement program in the
reservoir.
Ln. 3515-CHA           To complete the ongoing Shuikou dam    09/01/92   Closed 6/30/98. Current
Second Shuikou         and hydroelectric power plan, upgrade          ICR..
Hydroelectric Project    the control and data acquisition system of
the Fujian grid, carry out an action plan
for tariff reform, and a training program
for planning and financial management.



- 24 -
Year of
Loan Title                           Purpose               Approval           Status
Ln. 3387-CHA &         To construct a 240 m high arch dam with   07/02/91  Implementation under
Ln. 3933-CHA           an underground powerhouse, to install 6    &   way. First loan closed
Ertan Hydroelectric    550-MW generating units and associated   08/22/95  12/31/96. Closing date
Projects I & II        equipment; to carry out an environmental       second loan 12/31/2001
management program, studies of power
pricing and reservoir operation, and a
training program.
Cr. 2305-CHA &         To construct a 56 m high gravity damn  10/31/91  Closed 12/31/98. ICR
Ln. 3412-CHA           and an underground powerhouse with 4 x         in preparation
Daguangba Multipurpose  60 MW generating units; to erect a 36 km
Project               long double-circuit 220 kV transmission
line and to build canals to irrigate 12,700
ha of land.
Ln. 3433-CHA           To install 2 300-MW generating units  01/14/92  Closed 12/31/97.
Yanshi Thermal Power   and 5 220-kV transmission lines and
Project                associated substations; to carry out a
tariff study, a tariff action plan, and a
training program for upgrading the
technical, financial and management
skills for HPEPB staff.
Ln. 3462-CHA           To install 2 additional 600 MW       04/12/92  Implementation under
Zouxian Thermal Power  generating units; to construct 500 kV and      way. Closing date
Project                220 kV transmission lines and                  06/30/99.
substations; and to cany out an air
quality control study, a power tariff
study, an action plan for tariff
adjustment, and a training program for
the technical, financial, and management
staff of SPEPB.
Ln. 3606-CHA           To construct a pumped-storage hydro-  05/18/93  Implementation under
Tianhuangping          electric power plant with six 300 MW           way. Closing date
Hydroelectric Project    reversible pump-turbine units, together      12/31/2001.
with upper and lower reservoirs, a water
conveyance system, an underground
powerhouse; to erect 250 km long 500
kV transmission lines; to carry out
studies of optimal power plant operation
and its output pricing; and to strengthen
the beneficiary's organization through
technical assistance and training.



- 25 -
Year of
Loan Title                            Purpose                Approval           Status
Ln. 3718-CHA           To construct a coal-fired thermal power    03/22/94  Inplementation under
Yangzhou Thermal       plant with two 600 MW generating units;          way. Closing date
Power Project           to erect two 500 kV transmission lines          12/31/2000.
(30 km long); to extend technical
assistance for the development and
implementation of improved accounting
and fnancial management information
systems; and undertake management
development and staff training.
Ln. 3848-CHA           To construct a new 500 kV transmission    02/28/95   Implementation
Sichuan Transmission   network consisting of 2,260 km of                commenced. Closing
Project                 transmission lines and 5,250 MVA of             date 12/31/2001.
substations; provide technical assistance
for implementation of sector reform plan,
organizational improvements and
financial management systems.
Ln. 3846-CHA           To construct Beilungang Phase H power    02/28/95   Inplementation
Zhejiang Power         plant consisting of three 600 MW coal-           commenced. Closing
Development Project     fired units; to construct 400 circuit-km of     date 12/31/2002.
500 kV transmission lines, 2,250 MVA
of 500 kV substations and reinforce
distribution networks in Hangzhou and
Ningbo; to extend technical assistance to
assist the power company in
commercialization and corporatization,
establish computerized financial
management infornation system,
improve transmission and distribution
planning and upgrade environmental
monitoring.
Ln. 3980-CHA           To construct two 600 MW coal-fired     2/27/96    Canceled 12/12/97
Henan (Qinbei) Thermal  thermal power units; to erect two 165 km        without disbursement.
Power Project           500 kV transmission lines; to assist
HPEPB in engineering, procurement and
construction supervision; and to extend
technical assistance to support the
implementation of the power sector
reforn action plan.



- 26 -
Year of
Loan Title                           Purpose               Approval          Status
Ln. 41720-CIIA         To construct the first two coal-fired 600    05/27/97  Implementation
TuoketuobThermal       MW units in Inner Mongolia                     underway. Closing
Power Project          Autonomous Region; to implement a              date 7/31/2004.
desertification control and dryland
management program: to assist TEPGC
with the introduction; of modem
accounting and financial management
systems, environmental management,
operation and maintenance of the power
plant and involvement of private
investors in existing and new power
projects in Inner Mongolia.
To construct two 220 kV indoor
substations in Beijing: to add a 250 MVA
transformer to Wangfujing substation in
Beijing; and to assist NCPGC to
implement accounting and financial
management systems.
Ln. 41970-CHA          To construct two 900-1000 MW coal-   06/24/97  Implementation
Waigaoqiao Thermal     fired supercritical units; to install FGD      underway. Closing
Power Project          facilities at Shidongkou Power Plant to         date 1/31/2006.
offset SO2 emissions from the project; to
construct two 500 kV transmission lines;
to assist SMEPC to implement modem
accounting and financial management
systems, promote efficient management
and power sector reforms including
financial and corporate restructuring of
the generation company.
Ln. 4304-CHA           To achieve large, sustained and growing    03/26/98  Implementation
Energy Conservation   increases in energy efficiency and              underway. Closing
Project                associated reductions in growth of carbon      date 6/30/2006.
dioxide emnissions and other pollutants
by: (a) introducing, demonstrating and
disseminating new project financing
concepts and market-oriented institutions
to promote and implement energy
efficiency measures in China; and (b)
developing a more efficient national
energy conservation information
dissemination program.



- 27 -
Year of
Loan Title                           Purpose                Approval          Status
Ln. 4303-CHA           To alleviate critical bottlenecks in power   03/26/98   Not yet effective.
East China (Jiangsu)   transmission infrastructure and increasing      Implementation
Power Transmission     electricity trade on a commercial basis in      underway. Closing
Project                the East China region by (a) the                date 9/30/2004
construction of 500 kV transmission lines
and substations; (b) implementation
assistance for engineering and
construction management; (c) technical
assistance for improved interprovincial
power exchange policies and procedures;
(d) technical assistance for improved
accounting and financial management
systems; and (e) institutional
development and training.
Ln. 4350-CHA           To remedy power shortages in Hunan by   06/18/98   Not yet effective;
Hunan Power            providing efficient, reliable, and              Implementation
Development Project    environmentally sound power supply.             underway; closing date
Project components include: (a)                 12/31/2004.
development of two 300 MW anthracite-
fired generating units; (b) supply and
installation of about 794 km of 220 kV
lines and 1,920 MVA of transformer
substations capacity; (c) provision of
technical assistance for construction
management; (d) provision of technical
assistance for preparation of commercial
power purchase agreements and other
relevant documentation; (e) provision of
technical assistance for implementation
of HEPC's restructuring plan; and (g)
provision of technical assistance for
improvement of the financial
management system.



- 28 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                Date planned             Date actual
Identification                                                                 09/23/1986
Preappraisal                                                                   05/15/1988
Appraisal                                                                      04/11/1989
Negotiations                                                                   03/05/1990
Board presentation                                                             10/31/1991
Signing                                                                        11/22/1991
Effectiveness                                                                  02/20/1992
Project completion                                     12/31/1996             03/31/2000*
Loan closing                                           12/31/1997              12/31/1998
* The dam and power plant were completed before the planned completion date. The
delays are mainly for IMC and resettlement components.
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97    FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate               17.9      36.2      53.1       65.0    67.0
Actual                            7.76      15.43    44.50      60.92    64.10      64.70    67.72    69.28
Actual as % of adjusted estimate
Date of fial disbursement    February 24, 1999



- 29 -
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PHYSICAL CONSTRUCTION
Key implementation indicators in SAR       Appraisal        Actual         Comparison
Estimated     Completion
Completion
Preparatory works                            06/91           06/90
Civil works dam & power facilities           12/94           12/95
Hydraulic gates & hoists                     09/93'        29/07/95
Generating units
Unit 1                                   09/93         12/29/93
Unit 2                                   12/93         05/26/94
Unit 3                                   09/94         10/29/94
Unit 4                                   12/94         03/29/95
Overall commercial operation               -           12/30/95
Substation                                   09/93           11/93
Transmission line                            09/93           11/93
PLC & load dispatch system                   12/94       Planned 11/992
MC & Sanjiaolu canal (3,667 ha)              06/94           06/94
HMC Phase I                                             06/94
HMC Phase II                                           Planned
03/2000
Other canals (9,000 ha) & on-farm works      12/96          Planned
12/2000
Resettlement (physical relocation)           12/95           08/95
Environmental protection                     12/93       Planned 12/99
Resettlement budget adjustment including                     12/98
Baoying and Baoding villages
As reported in SAR, which was evidently not in accordance with HEPCO schedule.
2 Delayed until new HEPCO building complete.



- 30 -
TABLE 5B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
HEPCO TRAINING PROGRAM
Appraisal Estimates               Actual
Training Areas              Number of    Duration        Number of      Duration
Trainees     (months)       Trainees      (months)
2. TRAINING OF HIGH-LEVEL
STAFF
Overseas Training
Department heads                          5             1             6             1
Division chiefs                          23             1            35             1
Domestic Training
Department heads                          5             6             6             1
Div. chiefs/project managers             23             6            40             2
Power plant superintendents               5            12            18             1
Teaching staff                           20            12            10             5
Mgmt information system                   5             6            10             3
Load dispatch & telecom.                 10             6            20             9
Planning                                  5             6             5             3
3. TRAINING OF TECHNICAL
STAFF (DOMESTIC TRAINING)
Design staff
Power plants                             10             4            10             6
Transmission and distribution            10             4            10             6
Construction supervision
Power plants                             20             6            20             6
Transmission and distribution            20             6            20             3
Contract management                       5             3             5             3
Tendering                                 3             3            10             2
Operation and maintenance
Power plants                             20             6           109            15
Transmission and distribution            20             6            50             6



- 31 -
TABLE 5C: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
Item/Description            Unit       Estimated   Estimated at Project   Completed as % of
at Project   Completion (98-99)     SAR estimate
Appraisal
IiTigation Component
Total irrigated areaa        Ha         12667.0          8473.3                66.9
Maximum draw off through    Cuni/s       12.0             14.0                 116.7
High Main Canal
High Main Canal              Km          15.6             14.7                 94.2
Hongguan and Jiucun          Km          19.2             47.1                 245.3
Branch Canal
Sanjiaolu Branch Canal       Km          10.3             10.6                 102.9
Lateral Branch Canal         Km          29.0              8.9                 30.8
Field Ditches                Km          113.3            175.4                154.8
On-farm works and
agriculture support
Landleveling                 Ha          4320             9122                 211.2
Soil improvement             Ha          1200             1789                 149.1
Fertilizer                   Ton        1502.3            2836                 188.8
Agrochemnical                Ton         102.3            141.8                138.6
Seeds                       Kg/ha        225              220                  97.8
Seeds company                No            1                1                  100.0
Agriculture service center   No            4                4                  100.0
Training
Irrigated agriculture        No            1                1                  100.0
research and training center
Farmers                    m-month        500             1000                 200.0
Project Manager            m-month         6                8                  133.3
Project Staff (local training)   m-month  50               95                  190.0
Consultant services       m-month         300             450                  150.0
Study tour (domestic)     m-month         4                30                  750.0
a A total of 6473.3 ha developed in 1994, and about 1333.3 ha has been developed for existing irrigation
area to be supplied with supplementary irrigation. The balance of about 4000 ha will be completed by the
end of year 2000, in which 666.7 will be completed by end of 1999.



- 32 -
TABLE 6A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
POWER PLANT
Index                         Unit        Actual        Target Value          Target Value
Completion      Dual Standard     First Class Standard'
to 12/31/98
1. Continuous Safe           Days          1026      Three 100 day periods  Three 100 day periods
Operation
2. Human accidents at year    No            0                 0                     0
end
3. Dam Safety Evaluation2                Regular         Regular Dam          Regular Dam
Dam2
4. Annual Energy Output      GWh          368.73            495.0                 495.0
5. Station Services as % of    %           2.19              0.15                 0.15
generation
6. Average Availability        %           93.1
7. Perfect Operation of    % of year       100               100                   100
Main Equipment
8. Perfect Operation of        %           100               95                    95
Flood Forecasting System
9. Accuracy of Forecast of     %         85 (peak)           92                    92
Largest Flood
84 (vol.)
10. Average accuracy of        %         83 (peak)           85                    85
Flood Forecast
89 (vol)
In addition to meeting targets listed, first class performance standard requires following:
(a)  Computerized MIS system for.
(b)  Computerized SCADA and EMS for plant.
(c)  Automatic hydrological forecasting system in place.
(d) No leakage from equipment.
(e)  Plant labor force less than 0.15 persons/MW.
2 Routine safety evaluation every year. Reviewed by panel every five years. Compliance with all criteria
required.
See text.



- 33 -
TABLE 6B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
SAR estimate                    ICR estimate                     % of ICR/SAR
Area      Yield    Production   Area       Yield   Production   Area       Yield     Production
(ha)      (ton)       (ton)      (ha)      (ton)      (ton)      (%)       (%)          (%)
Crops
Rice            6000.0         4.3    25800.0   6018.0        4.7    28254.5    100.3        109.2          109.5
Corn             334.0         3.5     1169.0    340.0        3.5      1196.8    101.8       100.6         102.4
Peanuts         1140.0         2.1     2394.0   1150.0        2.1      2415.0    100.9       100.0          100.9
Beans            334.0         1.8      601.0    340.0        1.9       647.7    101.8       105.8          107.8
Sweet Potato     927.0         3.0     2781.0    930.0        3.0      2799.3    100.3       100.3         100.7
Vegetable       1334.0        10.0    13340.0   1350.0       10.3    13911.8    101.2        103.1         104.3
Watermelon       334.0        25.0     8350.0    340.0       25.0      8501.7    101.8       100.0          101.8
Sugar Cane      3212.0        50.0   160600.0   3153.0       51.0   160803.0      98.2       102.0         100.1
Pineapple        200.0        11.0     2200.0    157.0       11.0      1726.2     78.5       100.0          78.5
Pepper           134.0         2.5      335.0       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0         0.0           0.0
Mango           1360.0        11.6    15780.0   1784.0       11.9    21220.7    131.2        102.5         134.5
Rubber          1534.0         1.3     2025.0   1100.0        1.4      1485.0     71.7       102.3          73.3
Sisal           1047.0         1.5     1571.0    439.0        1.5       658.5     41.9       100.0          41.9
Eucalyptus        NA          NA          NA      2733          ?           ?



- 34 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study               Purpose as defined at          Status          Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Power Pricing Study     To transfer to HEPCO modem   Completed 1994       Comprehensive tariff
methods of power tariff design                   structure
based on the criteria of economic                recommended.
efficiency, financial viability and              HEPCO proposed to
fairness to power consumers and                  the provincial
suppliers; to look into the                      government to
practical problems raised by the                 implement new tariff
transition from the existing                     structure including
pricing system to more desirable                 time-of-day tariff, but
pricing arrangements and to                      has not obtained the
propose a medium-term action                     government's approval.
plan.
Power System Planning   To develop an appropriate   Completed 1994       Least cost investment
Study                   methodology for establishing                     plan with specific
investment plans in Hainan                       power generation
which take into account                          facilities identified.
uncertainties about load forecast,               Such plan was
the availability and price of                   implemented.
fuels, and the rate of connection                However, due to
of isolated systems to the main                  economic downtum in
grid. This methodology later                     recent years, there is
could be replicated for similar                  now excessive
cases in mainland China. To                      generation capacity in
strengthen HEPCO's capability                    Hainan.
in routinely applying some of the
planning methods identified
from the study and in developing
and maintaining the required
database.



- 35 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(Yuan million)
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimate
Item                                 Local  Foreign    Total           Local Foreign      Total
Preparatory Works                     24.0    0.9       25.0          41.7       0.0    41.7
Resettlement                          135.4   15.1    150.5          205.8     63.6   269.4
Environmental Management                6.2    3.7       9.9           2.8      10.8    13.6
Civil Works (Dam and Power Facilities)   182.1    4.5    186.6       440.1      0.0   440.1
HMC and Sanjiaolu Canal System        39.1    13.2      52.2          24.4     64.2    88.6
Canals andon-farmworks beyond         62.8   16.3       79.1          37.7      0.0    37.7
resettlement
Major constructionmaterials             5.2  133.1    138.3           75.6    192.5   268.1
Gates and Hoists                       15.3    6.8      22.1          25.0      0.0    25.0
Turbines and Generators, and other plant    70.1  6.3   76.4          65.2      15.2    80.3
equipment
T&G Governors and Static Excitation    0.9   19.6       20.5           0.0     20.5    20.5
PLCEquipment,transmissionline,         11.6   26.5      38.1          14.2    161.8   176.0
substation
LoadDispatchSystemforHainanIsland      0.2   13.1       13.3           0.0     29.3    29.3
Grid
Agricultural Support Services          4.2     0.0       4.2           0.0       0.0      0.0
ProjectManagementandEngmeering        26.0    5.4       31.5          58.8      0.0    58.8
Technical Assistance and Training      5.0    7.0       12.0           0.4      2.4       2.8
TotalBase Costs-                     588.0  271.7    859.7
Contingencies
Physical                      59.0    15.4      74.3
Price                        107.6   44.9    152.5
TotalProjectCos                      754.5  332.0   1,086.5          991.8    560.4  1552.2
Interest during Construction
IBRD Loan6                    26.5    12.2      38.7           0.0      9.2      9.2
OtherLoans                   101.5    0.0    101.5           451.9      0.0   451.9
Total Financing Required7            882.5  344.2   1,226.7         1443.7    569.6  2013.3
4 The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
5 The actual project cost excludes $12.1 equivalent (YIOO million) local cost allocated by the provincial government in
August 1999 to complete HMC and resettlement components. Potential benefits also ignored in economic
analysis.
6 Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rate for projected disbursements of loan/credit proceeds.
Foreign currency portion of IDC is based on Bank loan variable rate for projected disbursements of loan
proceeds.
7 Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 36-
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
Item                                  Local  Foreign    Total            Local  Foreign     Total
Preparatory Works                        4.9     0.2      5.1            7.7       0.0      7.7
Resettlement                           25.9      2,9     28.8           26.8       7.6     34.4
Environmental Management                 1.2     0.7       1.9           0.4       1.3      1.7
Civil Works (Dam and Power Facilities)    35.3   0.9     36.2           59.9       0.0     59.9
HMC and Sanjiaolu Canal System           7.5     2.5      10.0           4.1       7.5     11.6
Canalsandon-farmworksbeyond             12.0     3.1      15.1           4.6       0.0      4.6
resettlement
Major construction materials             1.0   25.7      26.7            9.1      24.8     33.9
Gates and Hoists                         3.0     1.3      4.3            2.9       0.0      2.9
Turbines and Generators, and other plant    13.5  1.2     14.7           7.7       1.8      9.5
equipment
T&G Governors and Static Excitation     0.2      3.8      3.9            0.0       2.4      2.4
PLC Equipment, transrnission line,       2.2     5.1       7.3           1.7      19.2     20.9
substation
LoadDispatchSystemfor HainanIsland       0.0     2.5      2.5            0.0       3.5      3.5
Grid
Agricultural Support Services            0.8     0.0       0.8           0.0       0.0      0.0
Project Management and Engineering       5.2     1.0       6.3           8.9       0.0      8.9
Technical Assistance and Training        1.0     1.4      2.3            0.1       0.3      0.4
Total BaseCostsS                       113.6    52.2    165.8
Contingencies
Physical                       10.5     2.9      13.4
Price                           9.8     4.0      13.7
TotalProjectCosts-                     133.8    59.1    193.0          133.6      68.4    202.0
Interest during Construction
IBRD Loan'0                     4.8     2.0       6.8            0.0       1.1      1.1
Other Loans                    17.9     0.0      17.9           56.3       0.0     56.3
TotalFinancingRequired"                156.5    61.1    217.7          189.9      69.5    259.4
8 The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
9 The actual project cost excludes $12.1 equivalent (Y100 million) local cost allocated by the provincial govemment in
August 1999 to complete HMC and resettlement components. Potential benefits also ignored in economic
analysis.
10 Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rate for projected disbursements of loan/credit proceeds.
Foreign currency portion of IDC is based on Bank loan variable rate for projected disbursements of loan
proceeds.
1 l Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 37 -
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate                ActuaVlate estimate
Source              Local     Foreign     Total         Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD/LDA                        17.0        50.0       67.0          0.0       69.3      69.3
TCC 1112                         -           0.3        0.3          0.0        0.2       0.2
UNDP                             -           0.1        0.1           0.0       0.0       0.0
MWR                             12.0          -        12.0         20.5        0.0      20.5
SEIC                            21.0         -        21.0          45.7        0.0      45.7
Hainan Government
Loans                   98.5        10.7      109.2          87.7       0.0      87.7
Grants                   8.0          -         8.0         31.5        0.0      31.5
Local Government                                                     4.5        0.0       4.5
Total Financing Required13     156.5        61.1     217.7          185.4      69.5    259.4
12 Credit 1664-CHA
13 Includes IDC of about $25 million; all of the financing sources would finance IDC relating to their own loans.



-38 -
TABLE 9A: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Comparison to Alternative Thermal Power (85MW coal & 225MW GT Plant)
(Y million in 1997 Economic Prices)
Year              Thermal Fixed Costs            Output (GWh!)         Fuel Costs        Summary Thermal Costs                      Proect Costs                    _Hydro - Thermal
Investment        O&M                                                                                     Investment        O&M               Total
Coal    GT    Coal    GT    Total   Coal    GT    Coal    GT    Total  Invest.  O&M    Total  Power  Joint  Power  Joint  Allocated   Full  Allocated   Full
1990       46.8     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       o.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      46.8     0.0    46.8     0.0   102.4     0.0     0.0      84.6   102.4      37.9    55.7
1991      140.3     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    140.3      0.0   140.3     9.6   102.1     0.0     0.0      93.9   111.7    -46.3   -28.6
1992      187.0    90.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    277.0     0.0   277.0    57.1   270.7     0.0     0.0    280.7   327.8        3.7    50.8
1993       93.5   315.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    408.5      0.0   408.5   101.3   356.1     0.0     0.0    395.4   457.4    -13.1    48.9
1994        0.0   270.0    14.0     5.6  312.0  272.0    40.0    54.4    16.0   70.4    270.0    19.7  360.1   222.2   261.6          5.1     7.0    449.2   495.9       89.1   135.9
1995        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  373.0   253.0   120.0    50.6    48.0    98.6        0.0    30.9   129.5    70.7   163.1    10.1    14.1    227.2   258.0       97.7   128.5
1996        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  426.0   306.0   120.0    61.2    48.0   109.2        0.0    30.9   140.1    15.5    28.4    10.1    14.1      60.7    68.1    -79.4   -72.0
1997        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  501.0   381.0   120.0    76.2    48.0   124.2        0.0    30.9   155.1    16.4    72.0    10.1    14.1      97.7   112.7    -57.4   -42.4
1998        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  369.0   249.0   120.0    49.8    48.0    97.8        0.0    30.9   128.7    13.3    48.8    10.1    14.1      75.3    86.2    -53.4   -42.5
1999        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0       0.0    30.9   158.9      0.0     0.0    10.1    14.1      21.7    24.2   -137.2  -134.7
2000        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0  400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0         0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2001        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2002        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2003        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0  400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0         0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2004        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0  400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0         0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2005        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0  400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0         0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2006        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2007        0.0    90.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0.  120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0       90.0    30.9   248.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -231.4  -229.5
2008        0.0   315.0    14.0    16.9  520.0  400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0   315.0    30.9   473.9         0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -456.4  -454.5
2009        0.0   270.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0    270.0    30.9   428.9       0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -411.4  -409.5
2010        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2011        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2012        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2013        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2014        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0   48.0   128.0         0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2015        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2016        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2017        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2018        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2019        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0        0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2020        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0   48.0   128.0         0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2021        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0   48.0   128.0         0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2022        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0   120.0    80.0   48.0   128.0         0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1      17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
2023        0.0     0.0    14.0    16.9  520.0   400.0  120.0    80.0    48.0   128.0         0.0    30.9   158.9     0.0     0.0     8.3    11.1       17.5    19.4   -141.4  -139.5
Totals    467.5   675.0                                                                    1817.5                   506.1  1405.3         Equalizing Discount Rate       0.41    0.21
Present Values
10%       362.8   558.2    90.3   101.7  3014.9  2291.9   723.0   458.4   289.2   747.6    921.0   192.0  1860.5   319.1   947.5    55.6    76.0   1220.2  1398.2   -640.4  -462.3
12%       346.1   493.7    71.8    80.0  2364.8  1795.9   568.9   359.2   227.6   586.8    839.8   151.8  1578.3   293.0   882.5    44.3    60.6    1116.3  1280.4   -462.0  -298.0
14%       330.5   441.8    58.1    64.1  1890.3  1434.3   456.0   286.9   182.4   469.3    772.3   122.3  1363.8   269.5   823.8    35.9    49.2    1026.6  1178.5   -337.2  -185.4
Average Energy Costs (10% discount rate)
Thermal Cost                61.7  fen}kWh
INTMM OlEr                       ~ ~~~~~~Hydro Cost
82.6% Joint to Power        40.5 fcn/kWh
100 / Joint to Power       46.4 fen/kWh



- 39 -
TABLE 9B: ECONOM,IC COSTS AND BkNf-US
Economic Internal Rate of Re ni fEil
Assumed Tariff(fen/kWlh)        54.4
Costs and benefits in Y million 1997 economic prices
Enerm             Benefits                  Investment         !et 'e Cashflow
Year       GVVh   Power lrrigation    Total   Joint  Power Irrigation.   Joini  Power trigoocer    '             fiv ,owei-rrigation    Total
(NET)                                       i                                   -
1990           0        0          0        0     102        0                                           1. _"'2;     -Y7    -IS    -102
1991           0        0          0       0      102       10          Sj      0                   0       N12    -Oo         -24    -120
1992           0        0          0       0      271       57                  6        0 0                       -2S7       -71     -358
1993           0        0          0       0      356      1I0         411      0        0          o     4        .18  404   -94    -498
1994         312      201          0     201      262      222                  15' ,                                 5-      -58    -313
1995         373      240        44      284      163       71           i !    14      IU                            9         3       12
1996         426      274        51      325       28      1if         Wi       4       1C          :        H     213         32      244
1997         501      323         66     389       72       16                  i       10                         623         37      260
1998         369      238         79     317       49       13         IQl      14      IC          3               i6l        53      213
1999         520      335         64     419        0        0                 1                            27     313         79      392
2000         520      335         61      396       0        0                           2'                          i7         56     373
2001         520      335         79     414        0        0          0:                          3               3'7         74     391
2002         520      335         65     400        0        0          0       Ii I                                           61      378
2003         520      335         66     401        0        0          0;                                                     61      378
2004         520      335         70     405        0        0                           8          3       2       3I         66      383
2005         520      335         70     405        0                                         3            20i    3.7         60      383
2006         520      335         70      405       0        0                            - I  ,                               66      383
2007         520      335         70      405       0        0          0 1     s        S                          3i,         66     383
2008         520      335          3     418        0        0                                                        7                395
2009         520      335         70     405       0        0                                                                 2 i1  e  ;  2i    317  66  383
2010         520      335         68     403        0        0                                              71,  1              64     381
2011         520      335         73     408        0        0          .,l     'I       S                                     68      385
2012         520      335         73     408        0        0                                                                 68      385
2013         520      335         73      4     08           0                                                                  68     385
2014         520      335         73      408        0       0                                                        7         68     385
2015         520      335         69     4041       0        0          o0 335                                      3i7        64      381
2016         520      335         57      391!      0        0                                                     317          52     369
2017         520      335         52     3g7        0        0                   t       3                          .17        47      365
2018         520      335         57      391       0        '                                      3.             -il?         52     369
2019         520      335         57     391        0        0                  13  52                                                 369
2020         520      335         57     392        0        t)                                             '2      ''7        52      370
2021         520      335         57     392        0        0          00 ii                       .        2;    3:          52      370
2022         520      335         57      3921      0        0                                                      3;7         52     370
2023         520      335         57      392       0        0                                                                  52     370
|PV at                      Benefits                   Investment         i                                            --Jct5 Cash Flow
discount rate      Power  Irrigation  Total   Joint   Power  *rrigatior        r Joist                          7, 1 t ,oe r  Irrigation   Total
10%      1,941.57    384.02 2,325.59  947.48  319.15       90.70I   75.37    55        3.6t 1.5C71, 605.99         122.02   818.01
1;%     1715.22    338.11 2,053.33   914.12   305.72      86.991   61.70    4,54       ' 5' 1. 40 64   524.60      8S.09   612.69
12%      1,522.96    299.05 1.822.01   882.45   293.00     63.49    0 66.6:   4,       i-.SI  3,.6S.6       4       60.08   443.32
13%      1,358.64    265.65 1,624.29| 852.37   2SO.90      00.8I   54.5 I   39-.8  i,! 25621                      36.89   303.14
14%     1.217.37     236.92 1,454.30   823.76   269.55     17.051  49.29         '      2.31 169.13                 17.65   186.79
15%      1,095.25    212.09 1 30735   796.54   258.72      74.091   44.60    ,                           0.0.. 30    1.67    89.97
16%       989.13     190.53 1,179.66   770.63   248.45     71.29    40.56    29.50    Y.37 'i'    20.90            -11.63     9.26
17%       896.44     171.72 1,068.i6   745.95   238.70     63.64, 37.Ci                                            -22.71   -58.11
PoNver Irrigation    Total                                                 6.P ,v            . ,
Benefits             1942        384    23261                                              3Osw                 44'
Share               83.5%      16.5%
Separable Costs    374.79     109.34   484.13
Rem. Benefits     1,566.78    274.68 1,641.47
Share               85.1%      14.9%
Joint Costs        870.79     152.66 1,023.45
Net Benefits       695.99     122.02   818.01,
Total Costs       1,245.58    262.00 1,507.561
Share               82.6%      17.4%
Sep. Investment    319.15      90.70  409.65
JointInvestment    806.15     141.33   947.48
Total Investment   1,125.30   232.03 1,357.33!
Ben./Invest. Ratio   1.73       1.66     1,71



- 40 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-              Original    Revised
Agree-                    nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment        Section      type     Status      date        date          Description of covenant     Comments
Credit   3.01(b)         3         C                                The Borrower shall onlend the
proceeds of the credit and the loan
to Hainan for onlending to
HEPCO, under the subsidiary loan
agreement under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank.
Project   2.02              3         C                             Hainan will relend the proceeds of
the loan/credit to HEPCO on
temis satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA.
2.01 (a) & (b),   7        CP                              Hainan will carry out or cause to
2.02                                                      be carried out the agreed
resettlement program.
3.01              1         C                             Hainan shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting
practices; Hainan sball have the
accounts audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Association and the Bank and
fumished a certified copy of the
Association and the Bank no later
than six months after the end of
each year.
3.02              2        CP                             Hainan shall provide for adequate
irrigation water charges which
would be collected to meet at least
the full operating and maintenance
costs of irrigation system.
2.01              10        C                              HEPCO shall complete the system
planning and the tariff studies and
shall review the findings of the
study with the Association and the
Bank not later than June 30, 1993.
4.01              1         C                             HEPCO shall fumish its annual
financial statements and project
accounts certified by an
acceptable auditor, within six
months from the end of each
financial year.
4.02              2        CP                             HEPCO shall take measures to
ensure that it eams a cash surplus
sufficient to (a) cover all operating
costs and debt service in
1991/1992; and (b) maintain a
self-financing ratio of no less than
20 percent in 1993, 25 percent in
1994, and 30 percent thereafter.
4.03              2        CP                              HEPCO shall not incur any debt
unless its debt service coverage
ratio is no less than 1.1 times in
1991-1993, 1.2 times in 1994-
1996, and 1.3 times thereafter.
4.04              2        CP                             HEPCO shall maintain a
debt/equity ratio of no more than
85/15 in 1991, 80/20 in 1992/93,
75/25 in 1994/95 and 70/30
thereafter.



- 41 -
Cove-              Original     Revised
Agree-                     nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment        Section       type      Status     date         date          Description of covenant      Comments
4.05               1         C                              HEPCO shall fumish its annual
financial statements and project
accounts, certified by acceptable
auditors, within six months from
the end of each financial year.
4.06               5        NC                              HEPCO shall furnish to the
Association/Bank no later than
June 30, 1992, an action plan for
organizing and staffing its internal
audit unit, and shall thereafter
implement such plan taking into
consideration the
Association/Bank's comments.
Covenant Class:                                                                      Status:
I =Accounts/audits                   8 = Indigenous people                        C    = covenant complied with
2 =Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting         CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries   10 = Project implementation not              CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project       covered by categories 1-9
funds                          It = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 =Counterpart funding                    budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the             allocation
project or executing agency     12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants               regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement        13 = Other



- 42 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
Statement Number and Title            Describe and Comnment on lack of
Compliance
1. OMS 2.33 - Social Issues Associated         Income not yet fully restored.
with Involuntary Resettlement
2. OMS 2.36 - Environmental Aspects of               Fully Complied.
Bank Work
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned            Revised             Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    $'000     Weeks    $'000     Weeks    $'000
Preparation to appraisal                                       167.3    331.0
Appraisal                                                     22.4      46.2
Negotiations through                                          44.8      97.3
Board approval
Supervision                                                   63.7      134.9
Completion                                                     14.7     28.7
Total                                                       312.9    638.1



- 43 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized staff    Imple-     Devel-
Stage of project cycle     Month/  Number of   Days  skills represented   mentation       opment       Type of
year     persons   in field       /a           status /b    objectives   problems /c
Preidentification           09/86        1         2           HE
Identification/ Preparation  02/87       5         6     HE,IE,E,PE,Ag,
RS,PE
06/87       4          5      RS,FA,FA,HE
Preappraisal                05/88        5         12    IE,FA,HE, Ec,E
11/88       3         13       Ec,FA,HE
Appraisal                   04/89        8         9     Ag,IE,Ec,FA,E,
LC,CO,AS
Negotiation                 03/90
Post-appraisal              03/90        2         10        Ag,Ec
04/90       2          3         FA,E
07/90       2         13         Ag,As
02/91       5          5     FA,RS,PC,HE,E
06/91       1          5           RS
11/91       1         10          HE
Board approval              10/91
Signing                     12/91
Effective                   02/92
Supervision 1               11/92        2         4         RS,RSLd
Supervision 2               05/93        2         12        RS,PE            S             HS
Supervision 3               04/94        7         5      A,FA,E,RS,Ec,        S            HS
Ec,HE
Supervision 4               10/94        3         6        IE,RS,IE           S            S
Supervision 5               11/95        3         8        IE,RS,IE          S             S
Supervision 6               05/96        1         3          HE'd
Supervision 7               11/96        2         6         HE,RS            U             U
Supervision 8               05/97        2         5         HE,RS            U             U
Supervision 9               11/97        2         4          RS,IE           S             S
Supervision 10              03/98        2         5         HE,RS             S            S
Supervision 11              07/98        1         4          RS'd
Supervision 12              11/98        2         4         HE,RS            S             S
Completion                  03/99        6         5      HE,RS,OO,IE
06/99       2          3         RS,OO
/a A: Accountant, Ag: Agronomist, As: Agricultural Specialist, CO: Country Officer, E: Environmental Specialist, EC: Economist;
HE: Hydro Engineer, PE: Power Engineer, IE: Irrigation Engineer, FA: Financial Analyst, LC: Legal Counsel, 00: Operations
Officer, RS: Resettlement Specialist, S: Sociologist
/b HS: Highly satisfactory, S: Satisfactory, U: Unsatisfactory
/c Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.
/d Form 590 not prepared.



-44 -                                                                                               ANNEX A
DAGUANGBA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
HAINAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY LTD. (HEPCO)
Income Statement
(Yuan Million)
Year Ending December 31               1991                  1992                   1993                   1994                   1995                    1996                    1997                     1998
SAR     Actual       SAR       Actual       SAR       Actual       SAR        Actial       SAR       Act Act       ual           al        SAR       Actual        SAR        Actual
ElectcicitySales(GWhi)            845        944         956       1,177       1,082      1,531       1,225      1,944       1,387      2,300        1,570      2,385        1,777      2,469        2,012        2,740
Aniinual Sales Growth (%)                     27        13.14      24.70       13.18      29.99       13.22      26.99       13.22      18.35        13.19       3.70        13.18       3.50        13.22        10.99
Average Tariff(Fen/kWh)         33.50      31.96       30.60      33.99       45.00      39.13       47.50      46.31       47.50      51.10        51.60       54.49        50.50      51.41       49.70        52.85
Operating Revenuie:
Sales Reveniue                282.5      301.8       292.4      400.2       486.6      598.8       582.1      900.1       659.0    1,175.4        810.7    1,299.7         896.6    1,269.4      1,000.5      1,448.4
Other Operating Income                                                                   9.5                     3.0                   -
Less: Sales tax                 -          -                      -           -          -           -           1.1        -           1.1         -           2.8          -          1.9          -
Total Operating Revenue       282.5      301.8       292.4      400.2       486.6      608.3       582.1      902.0       659.0    1,174.4        810.7    1,297.0         896.6    1,267.4      1,000.5      1,448.4
Operatinig Expenises:
Fuel                           92.9      104.8        78.9      163.4       100.2      312.4        104.5     181.6        111.6      231.3        130.6      192.7        171.5      201.5        219.7       222.4
Putrchased Power                5.5        8.9         6.0        9.0         6.4        5.4         6.5      316.2          6.8     274.6           7.2      534,9          7.5      475.4          7.9       618.3
Operatiig&Maintenasscc         36.4       37,8        39.8       54.8        43.0       67.2        47.7       92.9         58.8      162.2         71.2      184.4         79.6      129.9         88.7        117.4
Adniisiistration               16.3       12.1        18.3       19.3        20.0        19.4       21.8       42.2        23.9       73.9          26.1       86.8         28.5       61.3         31.1        59.7
Depreciationi                  52.3       58.3        55.2       67.8        60.2       83.6        79.1       80.5        121.8      124.0        160.5       80.8        184.2      165.6        210.4       176.2
Other Expelises                            4.4                    7.3                   43.1                   44.7                    86.7                   111.9                    73.6                     72.5
Total Operating Expenses         203.4      226.2       198.2      321.6       229.8      S31.1       259.6      758.0       322.9      952.6        395.6    1,191.4        471.3    1,107.4        557.8      1,266.6
Operating Income                  79.1       75.8        94.2       78.6       256.8       77.3       322.5      144.0       336.1      221.7        415.1      105.5        425.3      160.1        442.7        181.8
Noni-Operatinig Iliconie
Net Noni-Operating Ilicooise               (1.4)                 (0.5)                   (2.2)                 (36.7)                 (82.0)                  (12.5)                   (1.8)                     (4.7)
Investsnel tProfit                                                                       8.5                     1.8                   11.5                     3.4                     6.0                      4.1
Finasice Expenses              66.4                   71.4                   79.9       63.1       110.2       97.7        144.0      71.5         156.5       83.3        154.2      165.1        148.9       214.4
TotalNoii-operatiiigliscome    (66.4)      (1.4)      (71.4)      (0.5)      (79.9)     (56.8)     (110.2)    (132.6)     (144.0)    (142.0)      (156.5)     (92.4)      (154.2)    (160.9)      (148.9)     (215.0)
Net Income Before Incosise Tax    12.7       74.2        22.8       78.1       176.9       20.5       212.3       11.4       192.1       79.8        258.6       13.2        271.1       (0.8)       293.8        (33.2)
Iniconse Tax                    11.9      11.1        14.1       11.7        38.5        0.8        48.4        3.0        50.4         1.4        62.3         0.4         63.8        0.8         66.4        10.0
Net Income (Loss)                  0.8       63.0         8.7       66.4       138.4       19.7       163.9        8.4       141.7       78.4        196.3       12.7        207.3        (1.6)      227.4        (43.2)
Average Rate Base                          1,000.0      984.8      992.5      1,022.2    1,071.4     1,358.9    1,068.0     1,986.1    1,159.3      2,425.9    1,382.3      2,651.1    1,365.5      2,904.8      1,251.8
RateofRetum (%)                               7.55       9.57        7.92       25.12       7.21       23.73      13.48       16.92      19.13        17.11       7.63        16.04      11.72        15.24        14.52
OperatingRatio(%)                  72.0       75.0        67.8       80.4        47.2       87.3        44,6       84.0        49.0       81.1         48.8       91.9         52.6       87.4         55.8         87.4



- 45 -                                                                                              ANNEX A
DAGUANGBA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
HAINAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY LTD. (HEPCO)
Balance Sheet
(Yuan Million)
Year Ending December 31                        1991                  1992                 1993                 1994                  1995                 1996                  1997                 1998
SAR      Actual       SAR      Actual      SAR      Actual      SAR      Actual       SAR     Actual       SAR      Actual       SAR      Actual      SAR    Actual
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                     85,6       71.1        86.9     91.9       102.9    141.4        82.7    296.0        91.5    232.8         95.5    232.3        100.8    200.5        96.5    543.7
Account Receivables                      23.2       152.0       24.0    239.7        40.0    108.6        47.8    187.2        54.2    235.8         66.6    262.3         73.7    263.2        82.2    326.6
Inventories                              68.9       40.6        83.0     58.6       104.2    142.2       108.5     35.1       115.7      78.6       134.7      55.2       160.8     62.5       197.8     52.6
Other Current Assets                     79.6                   79.6      -          79.6    388.9        79.6    427.7        79.6    532.2         79.6    473.1         79.6    441.3        79.6    632.9
Total Current Assets                    257.3      263.7       273.5    390.1       326.7    781.1       318.6    946.0       341.0   1,079.3       376.4   1,022.9       414.9    967.6       456.1   1,555.9
I.ong-Terinlnvestsneet                                  -                    -                   99.0                413.3                438.7                 414.8                 413.1                416.9
Fixed Assets:
Plant in Service                       1,157.6    1,198.8     1,214.7   1,223.0    1,347.8   1,521.1   2,027.3   1,306.1     2,803.0   1,897.9    3,189.4   2,038.5     3,598.2   2,110.7    4,091.3   2,153.0
Less: Accumulated Depreciation          173.7      186.8       229.0    250.0       289.2    351.3       368.2    339.9       490.0    545.5        650.6    626.3        834.8    791.9    1,045.1    968.2
NetPlantinService                       983.9    1,012.0       985.7    973.0    1,058.6   1,169.8     1,659.1    966.2      2,313.0   1,352.4    2,538.8   1,412.2     2,763.4   1,318.7    3,046.2   1,184.8
Construction WIP                        307.6       152.1      671.1    408.9       934.8    835.4       637.5   1,372.6      212.1   1,715.0       244.8   1,866.1       103.3   2,127.1      222.1   2,201.4
Total Fixed Assets                     1,291.5    1,164.1    1,656.8   1,381.9    1,993.4   2,085.2    2,296.6   2,338.8     2,525.1   3,067.4    2,783.6   3,278.3     2,866.7   3,445.8    3,268.3   3,386.2
Special Fund Assets                          3.0       35.0        3.2      27.8        5.0       -           6.2      -           8.5      -            9.6      -           12.2                 14.4
Intangible Assets & Deferred Assets                                          -                  142.8                141.8                 532.7                504.4                 501.8                503.8
TOTAL ASSETS                 1,551.8    1,462.9     1,933.5   1,799.9    2,325.1   3,028.0    2,621.4   3,839.8    2,874.6   5,118.0     3,169.6   5,220.4     3,293.8   5,328.3    3,738.8   5,862.8
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities:
Short-Termn Loan                         40.0        15.3       40,0      23.0       40.0     54.5        40.0     30.0        40.0      75.5        40.0      98.8        40.0     77.4        40.0      31.3
AccountPayable                           51.4       51.7        58.2     43.3        65.9     30.8        74.6    170.4        84.5    102.6         95.6    162.5        108.3     26.2       122.5    412.4
Other Current Liabilities                 -          0.0                   4.6               256.2                264.7                 433.3                 278.8                268.3                203.4
Current Portion of Long-Terrn Debts                                       -                   75.0                 42.4                  53.5                  19.1                 15.9                  88.5
Total Current Liabilities                91.4       67.0        98.2      71.0      105.9    416.6       114.6    507.6       124.5    665.0        135.6    559.2        148.3    387.9       162.5    735.6
Long-Tern Loan                           1,046.1      835.2     1,382.6   1,061.5    1,601.9   1,898.9    1,700.1   2,240.2    1,768.3   2,492.3     1,820.4   2,671.9     1,683.5  2,849.7    1,840.3   3,088.8
Total Liabilities                      1,137.5     902.2    1,480.8   1,132.5    1,707.8   2,315.4     1,814.7   2,747.7     1,892.8   3,157.3    1,956.0   3,231.1     1,831.8   3,237.5    2,002.8   3,824.5
Minority Stockholder's Equity                                                                                                              234.3                264.4                 234.3                234.3
Owner's Equity:
Paid-in Capital                         414.3      560.7       452.7    667.3       617.3    516.8       806.7    669.9       981.8    718.4       1,213.6    743.3     1,462.0   1,387.2    1,736.0   1,387.2
Capital Surplus                                                                               181.6               402.9                 964.5                 950.7                 440.2                465.9
Surplus Reserves                                                                               3.7                   5.4                 (0.2)                  0.6                  0.6                   9.2
Undistributed Profit                                                                          10.5                  13.8                 43.7                  30.2                  28.6                (58.2)
Total Owner's Equity                    414.3      560.7       452.7    667.3       617.3    712.6       806.7   1,092.1      981.8   1,726.5     1,213.6   1,724.8     1,462.0   1,856.6    1,736.0   1,804.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY           1,551.8    1,462.9     1,933.5   1,799.9    2,325.1   3,028.0    2,621.4   3,839.8    2,874.6   5,118.0     3,169.6   5,220.4     3,293.8   5,328.3    3,738.8   5,862.8
Debt Equity Ratio (debt as % of debt-equity)  72         60         75        61         72        73         68        67         64        59          60        61          54        61         51        63
Current Ratio (times)                        2.8        3.9         2.8      5.5        3.1       1.9         2.8      1.9         2.7       1.6         2.8       1.8         2.8      2.5         2.8      2.1
Note: a/ Paid-in capital projected in SAR and the actuals in 91/92 includes sworking capital fund, Governtoent/fixed fund, constmction allotinent and special fund.



-46 -                                                                                             ANNEX A
DAGUANGBA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
HAINAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY LTD. (HEPCO)
Funds Flow Statement
(Yuan Million)
Year Ending December 31                     1991           1992            1993            1994            1995            1996            1997             1998
SAR   Actual     SAR  Actual   SAR    Actual     SAR Actual      SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual    SAR   Actual
Internal Sources of Funds:
Net Income                             67     63      80      66     218      83     274      106     2S6     150     353     96    362       (2)      376    (43)
Depreciation                           52     58      55      68      60      84      79      80      122     152     161      81    184    166        210    176
Amortization                                                 -                  1             38               24             35               7                 1
Maintenance                            14      15      14     17      15      -        16              24              33             38                44
Other Internal Source of Funds                 II             15              41             365              774             124            243               128
Total Internal Sources                133    147      149    167     293     208    369      590      432   1,100     547    336    584    414         630    262
Non-Internal Sources of Funds
Distribution Expansion Fund            22     30       25     78      28      -       32               36              41             46                52
OtherSourcesofFunds                             9             17             218
Total Non-Internal Sources of Funds    22     39       25     95      28    218       32      -        36     -        41    -        46    -           52
Borrowings
Foreign Loans                         -       -       161     46     119      120     98    275        42      52       3      15     -       24       -        20
DomesticalLoans                       229    235     208    246      214     500     171    455      204      163     297    117    119       77       431    266
Total Borrowings                      229    235     369    292      333     620    269      730      246    215      300    132    119    100         431    286
Grants                                     5    -         4    -          2     -       -               -                -              -                 -
Inicrease of Minority Stockholder's Equity                                                                      234              30             (30)
Total Sources of Funds                389    421      547    554     656   1,045    670   1,319       714   1,548     888    498    749    484       1,113    548
Capital Expenditures
Increase in Fixed-Assets and WIP      264    193    421    266       399     708     383     334      353    934      420    292    270    333         614    117
Increase in Long-Term Investment      -       -              -                99             314               25             -              -                   4
iocrease in Intangible & Deferred Assets   -  -              -               143               37             415               6              5                 3
Total Capital Expenditures            264    193    421    266       399     950     383    685    353   1,374        420    298    270    338         614    123
Operational Requiremenits
Increase/Decrease in Workiig Capital   14      62       8     97      30      (32)      3     (81)      4      39      20     50      21    148         31   (103)
Increase/Decrease in Special Funds    -        14     -       (7)    -        -       -       -       -               -               -                -
Debt Service (total)                   97      64     104    109     192      63    282       560     321     198     404    124    410       30       423    141
Remittances to Government             -         6     -        5      -        2      -       -       -               -
Special Fund Expenditures              12     96       13     65      19      -       22      -        27              40             43                49
Surplus Reserves                                                                                                              26             -                  44
Dividend                                                                       12
Total Operational Requirements        123    241      125    268     241      46    307    480        352    237      464    200    474    178         503      82
Total Application of Funds            387    434      546    533     640    996      690   1,165      705   1,612     884    498    744    516       1,117    205
Increase/Decrease in Casls                 2    (13)      1      21      16      49     (20)    155       9     (63)      4      (0)      5    (32)        (4)   343
Debt Service Coverage                    1.37   2.30    1.43    1.54    153    3.30    1.31    1.05    L35    5.55    1.35   2.70    1.42   13.76         1.49    1.86
Three Years Average Investment                           361    470     401      634     378   1,003     385     786     348    670    435    253         295    154
Self-FinancingRatio(%)                                   6.3   16.7    44.1      2.2   56.1      4.6    49.9   19.1    74.4    3.3   62.4   -2.0          99.7  -21.2



- 47 -                    ANNEXB
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
BORROWER'S PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (Extract)
CHINA
DAGUANGBA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 3412/CREDIT 2305-CHA)
Prepared by Hainan Provincial Electric Power Company Limited
April 1999
Approved by: Zhu Wanshun
Examined by: Hu Xingpei
Prepared by: Feng Shengfu
Translated by: Han Jiachou



- 48 -                     ANNEX B
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report for Daguangba Multipurpose Project in
China for which Loan 3412-CHA in the amount of U.S. $ 30 million and Credit 2305-
CHA in the amount of SDR 28.1 million (U.S.S37 million equivalent) were approved on
November 26, 1991. The IBRD Loan and IDA credit were used for the construction of
Daguangba Multipurpose Project and implemented in accordance with the stipulations of
Loan Agreement No.3412-CHA and Credit Agreement NO.2305-CHA.
The original closing date of the Loan and Credit was December 31, 1997, it was
postponed to December 31, 1998 with the consent of World Bank.
A five member World Bank supervision mission headed by Mr. Barry Trembath,
Principal Power Engineer of Energy and Mining Sector Unit visited Daguangba project
area between March 14 to 20 1999. During the mission, the mission members
commented and complemented on the Project Completion Report (draft) provided by the
owner of the Project. This report (extract) was prepared in line with the guidelines and
aide memoire advised by World Bank missions.
The construction of Daguangba Multipurpose Project was officially started in
June 1990. The first generating unit was put in service in December 1993, and the hydro
complex project was completed by the end of 1995. The reservoir impoundment started
in December 1993, by end of December 1998 the accumulated energy generation of
Daguangba hydropower Station reached 1981.296 GWh. The reservoir impoundment
had reached the normal full reservoir level of 140 El (above sea Level at Yulin port) in
November 1996. A construction quality inspection panel had conducted a completion
acceptance check on Daguangba project and submitted a report in April 1996. The report
concluded that "The construction of Daguangba Multipurpose Project is in good quality
in general terms. It can operate with nornal full impoundment of the reservoir, and is
ready for acceptance test."
The owner of Daguangba Multipurpose Project has been Hainan Provincial Electric
Power Company.



- 49 -                    ANNEXB
Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of Daguangba Multipurpose Project were to: (a) construct a 56m
high main dam with 5842 m total length, including a 719 m long concrete dam flanked by
5123 m long earth embankments; (b) construct a shallow-embedded type underground
powerhouse with dimension (LxHxW) of 87.Om x 37.50m x 14.0m; (c) provide and
install four generating units of 60 MW each, totaling at 240 MW capacity and the
associated electric system including a 220KV step-up substation; (d) construct an
overflow dam in the middle of the concrete dam and erect 16 sets of radial gate with
outcropping top; and (e) introduce the latest technology and advanced equipment for
Daguangba Hydropower Station construction.
2.  The Daguangba reservoir has got a total storage capacity of 1.71 billion cubic
meter. The construction of High Main Canal (HMC) will provide irrigation service for
190 thousand mu of farmland through sub-canal gravity irrigation, and will provide
irrigation system for a total area of 0.995 million mu in the long term planning. The
Daguangba reservoir will provide 81.90 million cubic meter of water supply for
agricultural, industrial and residential consumption in the down stream area annually.
3.    Erections of 35.48 Km double circuit 220KV transmission lines between
Daguangba and Emaoling, and 48.872Km 220KV transmission line between Emaoling
and Basun, and 144.762Km 220KV transmission line between Basuo and Sanya and two
associated 220KV Substations. The above transmission facilities will transmit electric
power generated by Daguangba Hydropower Station to outside area.
4.  Resettlement of about 22,240 people in the reservoir area.
5.  Conducting design liaison meeting and technical training abroad.
6.  Upgrading the capability of Hainan Provincial Electric Power Company (HEPC) in
financial management and management of large civil works contracts.
7.  Strengthening local capabilities in Hainan power grid development planning,
electric tariff study and promoting the economic development of Hainan province, China.
8. The objectives were relevant and important in the context of government and Bank
Strategy in the power sector at the time of appraisal. Therefore the project
implementation has facilitated the local capabilities upgrading in the aspects of funds
financing, expertise introduction and enhancement of management, etc.
Implementation Experience and Results
9.  The Adoption of Roller-Compacted Concrete (RCC). Rollers-compacted
concrete was adopted in the construction of Daguangba gravity dam. In the preliminary
design stage, volcanic ash was chosen as the binding mixture in the process of making



- 50-                      ANNEX B
RCC. Due to the reason that the volcanic ash contains 50 percent of tuff which tends to
cause fast-freeze and shrink effect in the RCC. To avoid this adverse after effect, experts
had conducted an experiment on the adoption of flying ash as the mixture in the making
of RCC. The experiment gave positive result, and the flying ash been applying in the
construction practice and succeeded.
10. Geological Treatment of Main Dam Foundation. Excavation on the concrete
dam foundation found certain faults and major fractures, analysis on the situation of
composition and spread of the faults and major fractures indicates that the concrete dam
formulation is not in a position of possible deep sliding.
11. In the original design philosophy, it is not required in principle to excavate further
on the dam river-bed foundation, while it is necessary to trim the concrete dam
foundation by clearing off weakly weathered granite loosen by joint fractures. Some
faults and bigger fissure should be treated by slotting and then backfilling with concrete.
The joint swarmed zones should be strengthened by consolidation grouting.
12. Based on the specific situation of dam foundation excavation as well as the
comments of special Board of Consultants, an optimal design was undertaken which
focused on the treatment of faults and fractured zone, adverse-effected zone, closely
spaced joint zones and surrounding rocks of Class Ill. The special treatment included
consolidation grouting, dam foundation curtain grouting and foundation consolidation
treatment on No. 20 block of the concrete dam.
13. A quality report on the completion of dam construction issued by the Supervision
Engineer had the following conclusion: "No structural treatment is required for concrete
dam foundation against the Class I and Class II rock. In accordance with the design
requirement, faults and fractured zones with widely distributed joint fissure should be
treated by groove excavation, replacement with concrete plugs and drilling of reinforce
steel for split resisting purpose. After the above structural treatment and enhancing
consolidation grouting, the quality is considered good."
14. Treatment on the Interfaces of Concrete Dam and Flanking Earth Dams.
Special Board of Consultants had suggested the following improvement measures on the
original structural interfaces treatment, the implementation of these measures had
produced positive results.
15.   Earth dam foundation should be treated in line with that of concrete dam
foundation. No any grooves which will have adverse effect on seepage resisting
measures should be allowed when using form boarding in the concrete placement
process. The adjacent area surrounding the three sides of the end of the concrete dams
should be excavated to the top surface of the weakly weathered granite zone, the
excavation should produce a three meters wide stripe area which should be backfilled by
bond clay with better impermeability, earth dam on the downstream side of concrete dam
should arrange seepage-control drainage body.



- 51-                     ANNEX B
16.  Introduction of Advanced Equipment and the Latest Technology. The project
had utilized World Bank Loan/Credit for purchase of advanced equipment adopting
international competitive bidding made, meeting the needs of effective and safe operation
of Daguangba Hydropower Station. The advanced equipment included computer
controlled supervision system and microcomputer regulated governor operation system
both provided by NARI System Engineering International (NSI), and the generator
excitation system provided by ABB Sweden.
17.   The latest technology adopted in the construction of civil works comprised the
following: roller compacted concrete; chimney drainage arrangement within the body of
earth dam; riprap protection on the upstream slope of the earth dam; shallow-imbedded
type underground power house; adoption of rock bolt crane beam in underground power
house; utilization of the adit as the lower chamber of the surge shaft; cancellation of
telescopic joint for the power intake penstocks; the adoption of hydrologic data automatic
collecting and transmitting instrument.
18.   Effective Activities of Special Board of Consultants. The Special Board of
Consultants had conducted three missions of field inspection and consultation which
resulted in many effective comments and suggestion on the improvement of preliminary
design, construction process and post-construction operation. The design institute and
construction units had studied these comments and suggestions carefully and adopted
most of them. The adoption had facilitated the optimization of the original design and the
construction operation.
19. The Implementation of Resettlement Component. The resettlement component
had been implemented basically in synchronous with civil works construction of hydro
complex in terms of funds allocation and detailed component implementation. The
implementation had followed the approved budget and the approved construction
schedule. Up to date, all the resettled people have been relocated in accordance with
plans. No any casualty or riot of relocatee occurred. The resettlement task was carried
out in general good condition.
20. Adjustment and complement had been made to the original resettlement plans in
accordance with the physical condition. Up to the end of December 1998, a total number
of 22,243 people had been relocated which account for 100 percent of the planned
resettlement people.
21. Assessment of Resettlement Component. All the resettled rural people were Li
and Miao minority ethnic who used to live in the poorest mountain area. The project had
provided an opportunity for them to get rid of poverty and backwardness and to go to
more developed and comparatively well off life.
(a)   Relocatees living conditions had changed substantially: The relocatees new
villages comprised of numerous new brick concrete structure houses with



- 52 -                     ANNEX B
the associated school building, clinic and grocery shop scattered. The
relocatees had undergone a substantial changes for their living condition
with economic fruit trees planted around the houses, residential environment
had change greatly.
(b)   Relative sufficient living space in the relocated area: Due to natural
favorable condition, every resettled township in the reservoir area had got
sufficient land resource, the average distributed land area per capita was
above 20 mu while the reclaimable land resource was very rich which will
guarantee the smooth implementation of "land for land" and "the same
amount land compensation after land acquisition" for the resettlement
component. The sufficient land resource had been the guarantee for the
success of the implementation.
(c)   Say good bye to the most simple agro-production: The relocatees had been
leading the most simple slash and bum cultivation. They were not used to
chemical fertilizer and tropical fruit trees. Now they began to accept new
concepts and new technique of agricultural science, at the same time, the
second and third industries had grown steadily.
(d)   Improvement of the infrastructure construction and public facilities: The
relocatees had transferred from inconvenient traffic mountain are to more
open spaced area. The transfer had laid the foundation for improvement of
infrastructure construction especially in the aspect of domestic water supply
and irrigation service. In general terms, the residential infrastructure had
been upgraded.
22. Irrigation Component. The High Main Canal is an important component of the
project. The HMC will cover an area of 190 thousand mu.
23. Project Objectives. (a) The first stage of HMC will construct a gravity irrigation
canal system of 58.6 Km; (b) Construction of 2 tunnels with total length of 4709m of
which Erjia tunnel with 358m length, 3.4m bottom wide and 3.4m tunnel high, the cross
section is horseshoe shaped. Hongling tunnel with 1 124m length, 3. lm bottom wide and
3.6 tunnel high the cross section is circular arch straight wall shaped; (c) Construction of
12 aqueducts with total length of 2363 m of which Chongnan aqueduct located at the left
bank of the main dam was 750 m length. The Chongnan aqueduct utilized precast
concrete flume with 15 m span and weighted 78.51. A pedestrian bridge with 1 m wide
arranged on the top surface of the aqueduct; (d) Construction of 5 culverts with total
length of 1119 m of which No. 5 culvert is 449 m length; (e) Construction off associated
structures including culverts under canal, canal gate drainage gate, etc.; (f) Construction
of irrigation administration office building and apartment building; and (g) Construction
of a canal head hydro plant with installed generating capacity of 2x 1000KW.



- 53 -                     ANNEX B
24. Benefit of HMC Project. The HMC first stage construction started in March 1992
completed and went into service in June 1994. The completion acceptance was
conducted in May 1996 and then the facilities were taken over by Water Resource Bureau
of Dongfang City ever since. The HMC first stage current provides irrigation service for
97.1 thousand mu farmland.
25. Second Stage of HMC. The second stage consists of Datian lateral main canal
lengthen 27.6 km with total length of 71 km of 13 branch canal lateral branch canal field
ditch, etc. HMC second stage will be constructed between 1998 to 2000, 104.8 thousand
mu of farmland will be benefited with irrigation service after the completion of second
stage.
26. Power Transmission Project. (a) Erection a double circuits 220kv transmission
lines from Daguangba Hydropower station to Emaoling 220KV substation. The length of
double circuit lines were 35.33km and 35.48km respectively; (b) Erection a 48.87kv
transmission line between Emaoling and Sanya substations; (c) Erection a 145.29km
220kv transmission line between Basao and Sanya Substations; and (d) Extension Project
of Emaoling 220kv substation which comprised of 2 GIS bays and 2x120 MVA
transformers. The extension project went into service in November 1993.
27. Financial Performance. In 1998 HEPCO took effective measures to expand
power consumption market and strengthened internal management at the same time 2740
GWh of energy sale had been realized in 1998 which increased 11 percent compared with
year 1997. The financial performance indicated that an obvious increase in economic
benefit and in total assets of HEPCO. The assets quality had also improved (other
economic performance indicators refer to attachments of Borrower's Project Completion
Report).
28. Environment. Environment management had focused on water quality monitoring
and reservoir peripheral protection. Artificial clearing had been undertaken on reservoir
sedimentation for an area of about 81 square km. A sewage treatment plant located in the
up stream end of reservoir had been constructed with the treatment capacity of 10,000
effluent daily the cost was 8.20 million Yuan RMB. The completion of sewage treatment
plant will contribute to the protection of up steam water source.
(a)   Environment monitoring and management had started simultaneously with
the construction of hydro complex. The project owner and Hainan
Provincial Environmental Projection and Natural Resources Department had
played important roles in the environment project implementation. Official
from the environment protection authority had chaired the design
examination meeting of the sewage treatment plant. Experts from the
authority had conducted field investigation and issued instructive comments
on the environmental protection implementation.



-54 -                      ANNEXB
(b)   All the relevant organs including resettlement service center of Dongfang
city, resettlement office of Ledong county, Guangba state farmn, Shancong
state farm and Houmiling forest farm took part in the reservoir sediment
clearing. The shore area of about 81 square Km area above EL 114 m was
subject to artificial clearing which included clearing, disinfecting and
burying of old lavatories and manure pits, removal of bushes, etc. The
clearing cost was 750 thousand Yuan.
(c)   The sewage treatment plant in Ledong county seat was the important
component of the environment protection program - Its treatment capacity is
10,000 tons daily and it costs 8.20 million Yuan. The competitive bidding
was conducted in December 1977 in which a contractor was chosen. By end
of December 1998, the construction of sewage treatment plant had basically
completed. The completion of the project is expected to contribute to the
protection of water source from pollutant and to improvement of resident's
health.
(d)   After the impounding of reservoir, an artificial lake was formed with much
open lake surface. The reservoir contributes to the improvement of climate
condition of Guangba Datian district the average ambient temperature is 2C
lower than that before the reservoir impounding also precipitation in the
reservoir peripheral area has increased which will facilitate the growth of
tropical economic crops. Taking Datian district for example, Dongfang city
has conducted a large scale reclamation program which resulted in the
formation of Datian ten thousand mu farmland the history of no paddy rice
planting in Datian district had gone for ever. Large scale plantation had
followed for example, 30 thousand mu of banana, 10 thousand mu of
vegetable and about 1 0 thousand of fresh water breeding.
(e)   Fruit trees planting resettlement offices of both Dongfang and Ledong had
sent team to Dongjiang reservoir in Hunan province and shuikou reservoir in
Fujian province for inspection and training. After the return of the team,
they had mobilized the relocatees to undertake a large scale fruit trees
planting along the shore of Daguangba reservoir and in the new resettled
villages. A substantial amount of mango, coconut tree, longan, litchi trees
had planted, and the relocatees had developed multicultural model from
monocultural model.



- 55 -                     ANNEX C
ANNEX C: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Messrs. B. Trembath (mission leader), Y.
Zhou, Ms. Q. Li, (Bank), D. Creamer, W. P. Ting, and Y. Zhu (Consultants), visited
Hainan to review the status of preparation for the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) and the data requested prior to the arrival of the mission. The mission also
reviewed the completion report prepared by Hainan Electric Power Company (HEPCO).
In addition to meetings with staff from HEPCO, the mission visited the site and
Dongfang and Ledong counties. After a wrap-up meeting the mission was also able to
meet with Vice Governor Mr. Yu Xun to discuss areas where provincial government
intervention is required. The main points and actions which were discussed and
agreements reached are summarized below:
Completion Report
2.    HEPCO provided a draft completion report for review but then withdrew it for
finalization. The mission requested that thefinalized report be sent as soon as possible.
With regard to the overall project, the main shortcoming is the lack of a detailed cost
table showing costs versus item on a yearly basis and in foreign and local currencies.
HEPCO promised to provide this before departure of the mission but it was not received.
With regard to the agricultural component information provided by HEPCO was far from
complete, and some of the data in the report did not reflect the actual situation. The
mission stressed the importance of ensuring the accuracy of the information prepared for
the mission. The mission subsequently met with project staff from the Dongfang Water
Conservancy Bureau and Bureau of Agriculture, and explained in detail regarding the
information needed to evaluate the impact of the project. The Vice Mayor of Dongfang
County, in-charge of the project assured the mission that most of the materials requested
will be given to the mission prior to their departure from Haikou and the rest will be
forwarded to the Bank before March 31. A detailed list of data requested for the
agricultural component is included in Annex 1.
Uncompleted Work
3.    Resettlement. Since last supervision mission (November 1998), little progress
has been achieved with regard to resettlement implementation. Between November, 1998
and March 1999, only Y 3.74 million of resettlement budget had been allocated, which
accounted for 6.7 percent of the remaining resettlement budget (56.08 million).
According to the data provided by HEPCO and MSDI resettlement monitoring report, by
the end of 1998, a total of Y 206.3 million of resettlement budget had been allocated by
HEPCO, accounting 78.6 percent of total resettlement budget (Y 262.33 million approved



- 56 -                     ANNEX C
in 1997). The slow allocation of resettlement budget in the past four months has made it
almost impossible to achieve the objective promised by HEPCO in November 1998 for
completing all remaining resettlement work by the end of June 1999. More importantly,
the slow allocation of resettlement funds will caused further delays of some critical
resettlement works in two counties, and prolong the process of restoring income and
livelihood for the resettlers.
4.    Based on the information provided in Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation
Report No. 5, by the end of 1997 22 out of 29 resettlement villages in two counties had
not restored their income to their previous levels, with per capita income being less than
80 percent of that before the move for 12 villages. Given the fact that there was serious
draught in the reservoir area in 1998, the income for most resettlers (except for Datian
resettlement area) in 1998 would have declined further compared with that in 1997.
Although the current monitoring efforts did not cover the 15 land loss villages, based on
available information, at least 50 percent of them did not restore their income to the
previous levels. In other words, the objective of Daguangba resettlement in terms of
restoring income and livelihood of the resettlers has not yet been achieved, even though
the main power project was completed four years ago.
5.    The two affected counties are fully aware of the areas where there are problems
and have prepared detailed action plans to address them. They include building the long
waited Nanmei and Nanba irrigation systems, relocating four villages to Datian area,
developing more farmland, and completing all remaining infrastructure works. The total
cost for the detailed action plans amounted to Y 53 million. The successful completion
of the remaining works would address most of the remaining problems. HEPCO should
review these plans and reach agreements with the two counties in order to finalize the list
of remaining resettlement works as well as the fund allocation schedule in 1999, and
submit such plans to the Bank by the end of April 1999.
6.    With regard to the establishment of Reservoir Maintenance Fund for Daguangba
Project which was supposed to occur by the end of February, 1999, no decision had been
made yet by Hainan Provincial Governiment. The mission expressed serious concern over
the delay in establishing the fund since the resettlement budget will be exhausted in 1999.
Based on Y 400 per person and normal power generation amount by Daguangba Power
Plant, a total of Y 7 million would be available each year for providing badly needed
rehabilitation assistance for the affected people. During the meeting with Vice Governer
Mr. Yu Xun, this issue was raised by the mission; and an assurance received that such a
fund would be established in the nearfuture.
High Main Canal Construction.
7.    The provincial government has approved funds amounting to about Y68 million
for the completion of this work, of which some Y 12 million is coming from remaining
Bank funds. HEPCO is providing some Y 18 million. There is understood to be a
funding gap of about Y 30 million. The most promising source for these funds is the
provincial government itself. This matter was also raised during the meeting with Vice



57-                       ANNEX C
Governer Mr. Yu Xun who promised to follow up on the funding issue. If funds are
available, the remaining portion of the HMC could be completed in June, 1999.
Dam and Power Plant Operation
8.    Dam. The problem of excessive leakage into the underground powerhouse has
reportedly been solved by the addition of a drainage gallery. There have been no major
operating problems since the rather extensive teething problems were corrected. There is
a flood forecasting system and a warning is normally provided some 4 hours in advance
of spillway operation. The spillway has apparently only operated on one occasion, in
1996, at some 7800 m3/s - a fairly typical flood discharge. This did cause some damage
to the scour area downstream of the apron - in a faulted zone subsequently repaired.
Given the relatively high and frequent spillway discharges that should be expected, more
repair work is probable and HEPCO should be prepared. The plant has been operating
for some 1095 days without a significant accident. There is no requirement for any
continuous riparian discharge from the plant. There is in any case no low level outlet. No
survey has been made as yet on reservoir sedimentation, incoming sediment is thought to
be very low.
9.    Power Plant The power plant has been in more-or-less full operation for over
four years. The last of the 4x60 MW units was commissioned in May, 1995 and the
reservoir was filled to close to its normal full supply level in late 1995. The natural flow
regime is highly variable with an average flow of 97 m3/s combined with a recorded
minimum and maximum annual flows of 29 m3/s and 168 m3/s. Minimum dry season
flows are of the order of 5 to 10 m3/s. The large reservoir gives a considerable degree of
flow regulation but the firm flow is a relatively low 34 m3/s. The plant is designed
primarily for peaking operation with an average plant capacity factor of 25%, during low-
flow periods the capacity factor could be as low as 10%. The head range is quite large:
from 85 to 62m, with a rated head of 73m. The effect is that at higher reservoir levels the
plant output is constrained and at lower levels it reduces - to about 190 MW at the
minimum operating level (MOL). Plant operation is guided by an operational study
carried out by MSDI in 1997. This was based on a simulation of plant operation over the
41-year historical flow record from 1955-96. It is not clear which objective function e.g.
firm or average energy, was chosen as the optimization target. The study produced
recommended upper and lower reservoir rule curves as a guide to operation and derived
the following energy capabilities:
* Average annual - 491 GWh or 56 MWe,'
* Firm annual - 309 GWh or 35.2 MWe with a guaranteed reliability of 93%,
* Firm monthly - 18.5 MWe.
Slightly lower than reported in the SAR probably due to the inclusion of the recent lower flow years.



-58 -                      ANNEX C
10.   The MSDI study allowed for the full irrigation demand at the High Main Canal.
Although a relatively modest 4 m3/s on average, during drier years irrigation demand can
be a quite significant, reducing dry season flow available for power generation by up to a
third. The study also compared actual to simulated operation for the two-year period
1995-96. This showed that actual operations did not conforrn well to the optimized
simulation. The main discrepancies were:
*  Actual operation produced very low energy -5 MWe, i.e. well below the nominal
firm, over some periods,
*  Actual operation tended to produce lower reservoir levels, hence less head and
potentially less energy.
11.  In discussions, HEPCO personnel confirmed that the MSDI rule curves are used
as a guide to operations but have been frequently disregarded when overall system
requirements - set by the dispatch center - dictate. Examination of a typical daily load
duration curve shows that the Daguangba plant - when adequate flow is available - plays
a very important role. It effectively handles most of the load variation during the daytime
period, thus allowing for more efficient operation of the relatively large thernal plant
units. Daguangba also provides local reactive power support during the nighttime off-
peak period. This role for Daguangba is a function of the present relatively small power
demand in comparison with the large size of the generating plants. Typical loads on the
grid are around 250 MW off-peak and 550-600 MW at peak. The main Haikou coal fired
plant has 2x125 MW units which can thus be base loaded. Other smaller thermal units
pick up part of the load during the day with the 240 MW Daguangba plant and the
smaller 80 MW Niululing hydro plant covering the rest. It is evident that a failure of one
of the large thermal units would be best covered by increasing generation at Daguangba.
Analysis of reservoir levels at Daguangba over the last four years shows that they have
tended to be considerably lower than indicated by the rule curves. The reservoir reached
its minimum operating level (MOL) at el. 116m in late 1998 and has since been held at
this level through the present dry season. In effect, there has been a 'failure' in that the
target firm energy can not be supplied. During the last few months plant operation has
been limited to an hour or so a day with typically only a single 60 MW unit on line. In
this way the low natural dry season flow (-10 m3/s) is passed downstream. Total
generation in 1998 was some 370 GWh i.e. more than the nominal firm. Annual inflow
to the reservoir was -49 m3/s i.e. low but not unprecedented. In effect, the failure was
primarily attributable to excessive generation (at above firm) between August and
November - coupled of course with the below normal inflow.
12.  In conclusion, it appears that there is room for substantial improvement in
HEPCO's operation of Daguangba. Admittedly the project is unique in the HEPCO
system and there is no previous experience in reservoir operation on this scale. Also the
relative size of the project in relation to the overall system will diminish. On the other
hand flow diverted for irrigation - only nominal to date - will increase. As an overall
guide, HEPCO should endeavor to maintain the reservoir at a relatively high level under



-59 -                      ANNEX C
normal conditions - closer to the MSDI upper rule curve. This will produce several
advantages:
* Maintaining plant capability at 240 MW,
* Minimizing the risk of reservoir failure, i.e. drawdown to MOL as at present,
* Increasing energy by maintaining a higher average head.
13.   Environmental Issues. Comments on specific issues arising from the SAR
follow:
*  There is only minimal monitoring of water quality. This is done once a year, with
samples taken by the plant personnel. Results to date show no change from the
pre-project situation i.e. generally high quality except for an excessive bacterial
count attributed largely to human waste from Ledong upstream. The project
financed sewage treatment plant for this area has only just been completed and is
still not in operation. The delay is attributed to lack of finance.
*  Protection of the rare Datian deer has been improved by partially fencing-in and
patrolling the protected area. The deer population is reported to have increased
(from -40 to over 200).
*  The afforestation around the reservoir rim recommended by the SAR has not been
implemented, in part due to the apparent minimal risk of erosion.
*  There has been some increase in fishing but no attempt to develop a reservoir
fishery to the benefit of the resettled population.
-  The slight moderation in temperature adjacent to the reservoir (attributable to the
reservoir itself) is reported to be beneficial to agriculture.
*  The Independent Evaluation of Resettlement indicated some improvements to
public health in some areas.
HEPCO Aspects
15.   Power System Expansion. The SAR included an expansion plan as a means of
assessing the cost-effectiveness of the Daguangba power plant. A subsequent MSDI study
of October 1994 developed a least cost expansion plan. The following table compares
these two plans to the actual situation as of 1998:



-60 -                       ANNEX C
SAR 1991 Plan     MSDI 1994 Plan       Actual Status
Peak Demand, MW             585                1073                627
Generation, GWh             2970              5376                -3000
Annual Load Factor          58%                57%                -55%
Installed Capacity, MW
Hydro                       370                525                 370
Steam (Coal or oil-fired)   350                864                 350
Gas Turbine and other       170                350                 550
Total                       890                1739                1270
Reserve capacity, MW        305                666                 643
16.   The table covers the Hainan Island power grid. The generation plant quoted by
MSDI appears to include approximately 100 MW of small hydro plant that may not be
connected to the grid. There are some very glaring differences: The SAR took a
deliberately conservative annual load growth of about 14%, which has turned out to be
reasonably accurate. In contrast MSDI used -20%. In fairness, however, at the time of
the MSDI review power demand had grown at a much faster rate than predicted in the
SAR. MSDI anticipated that the 80 MW Gezhen hydro plant (downstream of
Daguangba) and large amount of thermal steam plant would be installed. In actuality, no
hydro projects are in the pipeline at present. The one major plant not foreseen by the SAR
is a large gas turbine project (Yangpu) installed to meet the projected demand from an
export-processing zone which has not yet materialized.
17.   HEPCO Financial Aspects. HEPCO is currently facing some financial
difficulties because of large capacity payment obligations for new power plants which are
not being loaded, the drought which has severely limited Daguangba operations and the
tariff which has been approved by the provincial pricing commission for Daguangba
power plant which is only 37 fen per kWh in comparison with 74 fen recommended by a
task force composed of representatives from Construction Bank and SDPC. This matter
was also raised with the vice governor.
18.   Tariff Study. Following the tariff study financed under the project, HEPCO
applied to the provincial government to implement a time of day tariff structure but
received no response. At the mission's suggestion, HEPCO agreed to follow-up on their
application. A higher peak load consumer tariff would help to justify a higher power
tariff for the Daguangba power plant.



-61-                       ANNEX C
Agriculture and Irrigation Component
19.   Discussions were held with representatives from the provincial and Dongfang
County Water Conservancy Bureaus and Agriculture Bureau. According to the SAR, the
project will provide for the development of irrigation to serve about 190,000 mu (12, 667
ha). Thus far a total of about 97,000 mu have been developed (including about 35,000
mu for resettlement). About 20,000 mu has been developed under Phase II (including
about 20,000 mu of existing irrigation area to be supplied with supplementary irrigation).
The balance of 60,000 mu will be completed by the end of 2000.
20.   Operation and Maintenance (O & M). The Dongfang County Water Resources
Bureau has established the High Main Canal Management Division (HMCMD) as the
unit responsible for operation and maintenance of the system. The division has a staff of
15 - four at HMCMD, four at the High Main Canal Water Management Station, five at
the Sub-main Canal Water Management Station and two at the distributing sluice which
supply water to the Lemei Reservoir and the sub-main canals. The 0 & M for the main,
sub-main, branch and lateral canals is carried out by each station according to a schedule
prepared by the Dongfang Water Conservancy Bureau. Sub-laterals and field drains are
maintained by water users twice a year, first following summer harvest and the second
following winter harvest. The mission was impressed with the quality of the completed
works and the standard of 0 & M in the project areas visited. At present, funds collected
from water charges (about Y 240,000/yr.) are inadequate to cover the annual 0 & M costs
and these have to be partly funded by the provincial Water Conservancy Bureau and
county. The mission recommended that Dong/ang County should estimate the total costs
requiredfor 0 & Mfor the completed works and that the water charges should at least
cover the 0 & M costs. In this respect, the county should work closely with the Price
Bureau and Planning Bureau in determining an appropriate formula for water charges in
the project area. Water Charges should be based on the amount of water delivered and
type of crops grown by farmers. Dongfang County has agreed to provide the mission
with an English translation of the 0 & M regulation.
21.   The mission noted that water charges are very low (Y 32/mu for all irrigated land)
and are inadequate to meet the major repairs and depreciation requirements. The mission
recommends the following actions to be taken:
*  O&M Manual for newly developed irrigation area. The 0 & M plan prepared for
the new irrigation system (from the high main canals down to the branch canals,
lateral canals and outlets) should be revised into a permanent manual for reference
and use by the operation and maintenance staff. The revised draft should be sent
to the Bank for review before issuing to the 0 & M staff;
*  The annual operation and maintenance costs for the developed irrigation area from
1995 to 2000 (fully developed) should be provided by the local Water Resources
Bureau, including the salary for 0 & M staff, 0 & M machinery and equipment,
materials, utility, replacement cost, etc.;



-62 -                      ANNEX C
To improve the irrigation efficiency the collection of water charges should be
based on the cost of total amount of water used for different crops, water
measuring equipment should be installed during the construction of canal system
and on-farm structure, and the monitoring system for the whole Daguangba
irrigation system should be established;
* Most of the land in Phase I has been developed and in production and some of the
land has been leased to private individuals from out of state. To increase the
efficient use of water, the mission recommended that the on-farm irrigation works
of the leased land shouldfollow the design standards of the Water Conservancy
Bureau. Land under Phase II has also been allocated and about 20,000 mu has
been developed. There has been a considerable shift in the cropping pattern to
higher value crops as compared to the SAR. In view of the demand on the
mainland and overseas, the area under banana has increased significantly (about
30% of the project area), as well as seedless watermelon, mango and high value
vegetables. Good technical support was provided by the South China Academy of
Tropical Crops (SCATC) and the Dongfang City Agriculture Research Institute in
the introduction, testing, and extension of new and improved varieties to the
project area. In order to sustain the development of the project area, it is
important that the organization established under the project be maintained,
especially the provincial PMO, and in particular the Dongfang High Main Canal
Management Division. There is also need to strengthen the agriculture support
services in the project areas.



- 63 -                     ANNEX C
ATTACHMENT
Agricultural Component
Data Requirements for SAR
Economic and Financial Data. The mission reviewed the documents prepared by
HEPCO for the ICR mission and agreed that the following items will be completed before
April 20, 1999. HEPCO will complete, per ICR format, the necessary background data
and analyses as discussed with the mission. A brief summary of the tables and related
information requirements are as follows:
* Complete project investment costs and benefit analyses for Irrigation and Agriculture
components by finalizing:
> The actual detailed investment costs by year, components, and expenditure in Yuan
and US$ (based on the information from annual financial and physical progress
reports) for the Irrigation System, On-Farm Works and Soil Improvement, 0 & M
Facilities and Equipment, and Agricultural Support Services components with the
financing table, including the actual costs financed by the local government and
farmer's contribution (see summary table in Annex 26 page 10), and the total costs
allocation by year for the agriculture and irrigation components;
; The current farm-gate prices (1999) for all farm inputs and outputs for agriculture
and irrigation component (World Bank price projections or the actual export and
import prices in Hainan should be used to estimate farm-gate prices in 1999
constant terms for traded inputs and outputs with domestic and international
transport and handling), -- table 3 and 4, annex 26 in SAR;
. The actual detailed crop budgets by year (to full development) for all the annual
and perennial crops in project area:
*  detailed crop budgets should reflect the actual production from 1992 to 1998,
and the estimated yield after 1998 (to full development) based on the
experience of the crop production in Hainan for existing and planned cropping
pattern (such as rice, peanut, sweet potato, vegetable, watermelon, sugarcane,
banana, pepper, mango, rubber, sisal, etc.), and production without project in
SAR;
X quantity of seed, fertilizer, and farmn chemicals should be the actual average
and the incremental for optimal farm input applications (with project) in each
area.
> The actual cropping pattern and intensity for cultivated and sown land under
irrigated, dry land and slopping land by year and crops (based on the actual phasing
of investment expenditure for development of on-farm works development) -- see
table 2, annex 26 in SAR.



-64 -                       ANNEX C
*+ Farm household survey data from sampling of predetermined areas selected for
typical beneficiary families, including actual detailed income from crop and fruit
production, sideline activities and others; and expenditures for investment and
operation cost, taxes, and other charges with and without project (refer to SAR, annex
26 table 7).
*: Complete summary tables for Key Monitoring Indicators for project implementation
at the start of the project, during Mid-term Review, and project completion at the end
of the 1998 for agriculture and irrigation components (see tables in SAR, annex 12
and 20).
* The mission suggested the following areas that need to be strengthened andl/or
supplemented with the information/data required for the ICR:
> Explanations should be provided for the substantial changes between the planned
SAR, mid-term Review and actual completed quantities of various targets for each
component; and if cost changes were significant, this should be discussed and, if
possible quantified, such as changes in project scope/scale/design, estimates of
physical quantities and base unit costs, changes in exchange rates, implementation
delay, and performance of contractors;
u Poverty alleviation and /or other social economic benefits should be discussed.
Details regarding especially improved living standard and income for all farm
households in project area, including the settlers; and the number of beneficiaries,
incremental employment opportunity for farmers and the role of women in each
component and the project as a whole.



