Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
L v 39R0 ~ H
Report No. 7456-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
JANUARY 13, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department 1V
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURK.FNCY ECUIVAIENTS
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft.)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Forints per US$)
1983        1984         1985        1986        19P7      ICA
(02L.)
US$1.00 - Ft.     42.7         48.0        50.1         45.8       47.0       52.O
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CIF         -     Cost, Insurance and Freight
CMEA        -     Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
CSO         -     Central Statistics Office
EF          -     Employment Fund
GATT        -     General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
ISAL        -     Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan
ITCB        -     International Training Center for Bankers
KIOSZ       -    Association of Proprietorships
MOI         -    Ministry of Industry
NBH         -     National Bank of Hungary
NPO         -     National Planning Office
OKISZ       -     Association of Cooperatives
R & D       -     Research and Development
RPO         -     Restructuring Program Office
SDI         -     State Development Institute
VOSZ        -    Association of Small Business
WLO         -     Wages and Labor Office
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................... i-iii
I. IND'RODUCTION .............................   1
II. THE TINDUSTRIAL SECTOR                       ..                          2
A. The Economic Environment ...........         ..................   2
B. Sector Performance, Exports, Constraints and Strategy.                3
C. The Industrial Restructuring Program.                                 7
D. Employment Impact of Restructuring and Government Measures.           9
E. The Bank Group's Industrial Assistance Strategy .14
F. Progress under Previous Re'.ated Bank Operations .15
III. THE SMALL B'TSINESS SECTOR          ..16
A. Background and Structure .16
B. Recent Performance ............................................ 17
C. Institutional Framework .............................. ........  18
D. Development Constraints ............................... ....... 18
IV. INDUSTRIAL FINANCING ........................................  21
A. Overview of Financial Sector Reform .... ...................... 21
B. The Banking Systen. and Credit Policies ....................  22
C. Industrial Investment Financing ...............................  24
D. Export Credit and insurance ...................................  25
E. Small Business Financing ......................................  26
F. The Financial Intermediaries Involved in the Project .... ...... 26
V. THE PROJECT                    ....28
A. Project Objectives and Scope ......       ............................  28
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement ......       ..........................  28
C. Project Description ........       ...................................  30
1. Export-oriented Enterprise Restructuring ........ ...........  30
2. Small Business Development ............. ..      ..................  33
3. Regional Employment Creation ............ ..      .................  35
4. Technical Assistance: .................       .....................  37
(a) Small Business Credit Training .........................  37
(b) Restructuring Studies ..................................  38
(c) Small Business Sector Study .... . ...................... 38
(d) Employment Creation and Services ......................  39
D. Project Cost and Financing          ......................   40
This report is based on the findings of appraisal and post-appraisal missions
which visited Hungary in May/June anl August/September 1988.   The missions
comprised Messrs. 0. de Bruyn Kops (:ask manager), A. Deshpande, H. Herat,
M. Pherwani, and Y. Sumi (staff), and consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
l)b.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS ....... .........  43
A. Project Implementation Organization ...........................  43
B. Onlending Arrangements ........................................  43
C. Main Loan Features ............................................  44
D. Procurement ...................................................  48
E. Reporting and Auditing ........................................  48
F. Supervision Plan ..............................................  49
C. Status of Project Preparation .................................  49
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................             .....................  50
A. Project Benefits ..............................................  50
B. Environmental Impact ...........................................  51
C. Main Risks .....................................................  52
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ....................................  53
ANNEXES
1     Selected Documents Available in the Project File ....              ............   55
2-1   GDP of Industrial Sector by Branch ..............................   56
2-2   Gross Output of Socialized Industrial Sector by Branch .... ......   57
2-3   Gross Fixed Investment of Socialized Industrial Sector
by Branch .....................................................   58
2-4   Trade Structure of Industrial Sector ............................   59
2-5   Analysis of Industrial Non-Ruble Trade Performance ....             ..........   60
2-6   Recent Industrial Non-Ruble Trade Performance ...................   61
2-7   Operations of the Investment Promotion Aspects of the Regional
Development Fund and the Employment Fund .......................   62
2-8   Eligibility Criteria of Investment Promotion Program for Job
Creation .......................................................   67
3-1   Structure and Performance of the Small Business Sector .... ......   69
4-1   Summary Financial Statements of the Participating Banks .... .....   75
4-2   Interest Rate Structure .........................................   77
5-1   Pipeline of Potential Export Investment Subprojects ....             .........   78
5-2   Terms of Reference for Small Business Credit Training ....             .......   79
5-3   Terms of Reference for Engineering Subsector Study ....             ..........   82
5-4   Terms of Reference for Small Business Sector Study ....             ..........   89
5-5   Terms of Reference for Strengthening of Appraisal Skills for Job
Creating Investment Promotion .................................   91
5-6   Terms of Reference for Borsod Regional Plan .....................   94
5-7   Project Support for Employment and Retraining Services .... ......   97
6-1   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan ....................  100
MAP  IBRD - 21148R



HUNGARY   . .
THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:                National Bank of Hungary (NBH).
Guarantor:               Hungarian People's Republic.
Beneficiaries:           Direct and indirect industrial exporters; swrll business
firms; firms in regions affected by emergir.g unemploy-
ment; commercial banks; G(-vernment agencies and county
councils.
Amount:                  US$140 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Fifteen years, including a five-year grdce period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:         NBH will onlend US$135.7 million equivalent in Forints
to the participating banks (including the unallocated
part of the Bank loan), and US$4.15 million equivalent
in Forints to the Government for technical assistance,
at maturities not exceeding 15 years including five years
of grace, at its prevailing refinancing rate or at the
prevailing Bank rate plus a mark-up of 20 percent,
whichevor is higher. Participating banks will onlend
to beneficiaries in Forints for periods not exceeding
12 years, including three years of grace, at rates
determined pursuant to their lending policy statements
agreed with the Bank, which would allow adequate spread,
be positive in real terms, and not include a subsidy.
The remaining US$0.15 million will be used by NBH for
technical assistance. NBH will bear the ±oreign exchange
risk.
Project Objectives:      To support the restructuring of the industrial sector
in order to enhance its international competitiveness,
the project aims to help: (i) redirect the product/market
mix of the sector to competitive areas suitable for
convertible currency exports, (ii) improve enterprise
management practices and capabilities, (iii) stimulate
the establishment and growth of small businesses,
including the private sector, (iv) alleviate the adverse
employment impact of industrial restructuring, and (v)
strengthen the institutional capabilities in support of
industrial restructuring.
Proiect Description:    The project includes three enterprise credit components
to support enterprise investments for:



ii
(a)   increased  direct-  and  indirect  exports   to
convertible currency markets related to the
implementation   of   enterprise   restructuring
programs;
(b)   growth of entrepreneurs and small businesses; and
(c)   efficient employment creation in regions affected
by emerging unemployment due to industrial
restructuring.
The project also includes technical assistance to
strengthen the participating banks in the area of small
busines credit, to prepare enterp;ise and subsector
restructuring programs, to improve the analytical
framework for the small business sector, and to help
improve the Government measures for addressing unemploy-
ment, including limited investment support for develop-
ment of employment and retraining services.
Project Benefits:        The project would help to strengthen the ongoing restruc-
turing efforts in the industrial sector, and lead to
increased exports to convertible currency markets in
support of the country's trade balance. It would help
balance the structure of the sector by promoting the
establishment and growth of small, including private,
firms which would also stimulate domestic competition,
innovation and employment creation. The project would
further help accelerate enterprise restructuring and
assistance to dislocated workers through its support
for employment creation and development of suitable
employment and retraining services in regions severely
affected by restructuring.
Project Risks:           The main risk is the uncertainty perceived by enterprise
and small business managers about Hungary's future macro-
economic situation and possible further changes in the
industrial policy framework, whiich may affect the
incentives for Pnterprise restructuring and small
business development, and the level of credit demand
under the project. This risk is reduced by the strong
support that the new Government and political leadership
give to the economic reform and by the policy actions
agreed to by the Government with the IMF, and with the
Bank under the recent Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan.
These actions are aimed at creating a stable business
environment, conducive to restructuring and development
of entrepreneurship. Another risk concerns the capacity
of the participating banks to promote and appraise
restructuring and small business investments. The project
addresses this risk with technical assistance measures
and project coordination and supervision arrangewents.



iii
Project Cost:                                            Local   Foreign   Total
----- (US$ million)----
Enterprise I.nj'vestment
Export-oriented                 135.0    110.0    245.0
Small Business                   15.0     10.0      25.0
Emplcyment Creation              45.0     15.0      60.0
Technical Assistance
Small Business Credit Training  0.1        0.2       0.3
Restructuring Studies:
- Subsector                       0.2      0.8       1.0
- Enterprise                      0.2      0.7       0.9
Small Business Sector Study       0.1      0.1       0.2
Employment:
- Regional Plan and
Appraisal Skills               0.1      0.3       0.4
- Employment Services             0.1      0.5       0.6
- Retraining Center               7Q       2.4       9.4
Total                       202.8    140.0    342.8
Financing Plan:          IBRD                                -     140.0    140.0
Domestic Loans                   87.5        -      87.5
Sub-borrowers' Contribution    98.8          -      98.8
Government Contribution          16.5        -      16.5
Total                       202.8    140.0    342.8
Estimated                  IBRD FY    1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Disbursements:                      ------------- (US$ million) --------------
A.nnual        3.0  12.4  32.2  36.4  33.6  15.4   7.0
Cumulative    3.0  15.6. 47.6  84.0 117.6 133.0 140.0
IBRD - 21148R



STA9'0 APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Industrial restructurirg is the centerpiece of Hungary's medium-term
structural adjustment program, and is accordingly one of the primary objectives
of the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90). The industrial restructuring program
for 1986-90 is based on a medium-term strategy developed jointly with the Bank.
The strategy combines reforms of the entire economic management system,
especially industrial sector policy, with support for specific restructuring
investments. The industrial policy reform program aims to increase reliance on
competitiv. market mechanisms and signals in order to promote efficiency,
innovation, and financial discipline at the enterprise level. Simultaneously,
the investment program is intended to help restructure the potentially
competitive parts of the industrial sector.
1.02        The original industrial policy reform program (1986-90), as reflected
in a Letter of Industrial Policy Intent of May 1986, provided the framework for
the Bank's lending for two industrial restructuring projects in Hungary during
1986-87 (Loans 2700-HU and 2834-HU). The earlier two projects were of a hybrid
nature, involving measures at both the industrial sector policy level and the
investment level.   In 1987, the Government adopted a medium-term Economic
Stabilization and Structural Reform Program supported by an IMF Standby
Arrangement which was approved on May 16, 1988, and a Bank financed Industrial
Sector Adjustment Loan (ISAL, Loan 2965-HU) approved on June 21, 1988.  The
proposed Project would complement the Bank's support under the ISAL, and help
accelerate the managerial, technological, and financial restructuring of
Hungarian industrial enterprises. The Project also contains two novel features
in the Bank's assistance program for Hungary in line with the country's drive
for reform toward a market economy. These are (i) the support for small businass
and entrepreneurial development including in the private sector; and (ii)
development of measures for efficient employment creation and of new employment
services as a means of alleviating the social costs of restructuring.   The
Project is supported by a Bank loan of US$140 million to the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH), which would cover about 41X of the estimated financing required.
The remaining financing will be provided by the local participating banks, the
beneficiary enterprises, and the Government.
1.03        The proposed Project was appraised during missions in May/June and
August/September 1988, which involved members of the Industry and Energy
Divisions of both the Europe and Technical Departments of the EMENA Region, and
of the Trade, Finance, and Industry Division of the Technical Department of the
Latin America and Caribbean Region, as well as several consultants. Additional
documents concerning the sector and the Project are listed in Annex 1 and are
available in the Project File.



- 2 -
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. The Economic Environment !/
2.01        The Hungarian economic  environment has  not been  conducive  to
industrial restructuring in the last decade. Following an economic crisis in
the late 1970s und early 1980s, the Hungarian economy had stabilized by the end
of 1984.  The current account was in surplus, as was the Central Government
budget. In 1985, the Government initiated a vigorous renewal of the economic
reform program, which had begun in 1968, and introduced reforms to promote
decentralization and reliance on market-based signals to guide economic actions
(para 2.16j. The macroeconomic environment in which the reforms were implemented
was not supportive, however. An expansionary demand management policy in 1985-
86 led to increased Government expenditures and fiscal deficits, caused in large
part by the increase in State financial support to enterprises, which reduced
their financial discipline and their incentives to respond to the reforms. The
initial supply response of the economy to the renewal of reforms was poor.
Consequently, economic performance deteriorated: real GDP declined by 0.3% in
1985 and grew by only 1.5% in 1986.  Further, the falling nonruble exports,
growing nonruble imports, and declining terms of trade led to worsening trade
and current account deficits, which were financed by higher foreign debt. By
the end of 1986, the current account deficit and the fiscal deficit were 6.0%
and 4.3% of GDP respectively.
2.02        To address the serious economic situation, the Government in mid-
1987 took corrective measures - agreed with the Bank in the context of the Second
Industrial Restructuring Project (para 2.41) - to reduce the budget deficit,
tighten financial support to enterprises, and reduce domestic demand.  These
measures were effective in reversing the deterioration in internal and external
balances, but had less impact than expected due to the continued increase in
household consumption. Despite strong domestic demand, nonruble exports showed
good performance in 1987, and increased by 5.0%. The active exchange rate policy
-.nitiated in 1986, coupled with a 1987 change in the domestic pricing system that
increased the relative profitability of nonruble exports, contributed to the
turnaround in export performance. The supply side of the economy also improved
as GDP growth accelerated to 2.9% in 1987. These positive trends have continued
in 1988.  Despite these improvements, foreign indebtedness further increased,
largely due to continued valuation losses.
2.03        In order to strengthen and sustain the turnaround in economic
performance in 1987, the Government developed a medium-term Economic
Stabilization and Structural Reform Program for the period 1988-90, the main
goals of which are to stop the growth of external debt by 1990 and accelerate
the restructuring of the economy.   The main instruments for achieving the
objectives of the program are continued progress in systemic reforms coupled with
a reduction of the budget deficit, ceilings on the growth of credit, a strict
t/ Further details are given in: Hungary - Stabilization and Economic
Reform (Report No. 7128-HU, dated May 31, 1988).



- 3 -
limit on nominal wage increases, an active exchange rate policy, and an active
irterest rate policy to raise household and enterprise savings rates.   The
Government reached agreement on the main features of the program with the IMF
under a Standby Arrangement, and with the Bank under the ISAL (para 1.02).
Medium-term economic forecasts indicate that, subject to the risks from the
uncertain speed of adjustment to the stabilization and reform measures and from
uncertainty in the international economic environment, the authorities' goals
can be met through a vigorous and consistent impleiaentation of the program.
B. Sector Performance. Exports. Constraints and Strategy
2.04        Structure and Output Performance. The industrial sector increasingly
has been the lepding sector of the Hungarian economy during the postwar period.
The sector grew rapidly until the mid-1970s due to an emphasis on heavy
industries in the 1950s and a subsequent strategy to diversify the irndustrial
base in the 1960s and 1970s, leading to higher growth in the chemical and
engineering industries. Since the mid-1970s, the growth of the sector has slowed
down considerably. Annual growth rates of about 7% in the period 1960-75 were
reduced to 4.1% during 1975-80, and 2.4% during 1980-87.   The share of the
industrial sector in GDP increased steadily from 18% in 1950 to 31% in 1980, and
stabilized in the 1980s. In 1987 the sector represented about 33% of GDP, 31%
of employment, 35% of gross fixed investment, and 85% of total exports. Sector
performance improved in 1987 with an output growth of 3.7%, which reversed a
stagnation during 1985-86.  Output in 1988 estimated to have groJn by 0.5% -
1.0%. The subsectoral composition of the socialized industrial sector is shown
in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1
Selected Data on the Socialized Industrial Sector. 1987
(Ft billion and % shares)
GDP           Investment       Non-Ruble ExRort
Amount a/    Z    Amount a/    %    Amount  J/    %
Mining                56.6     14.8      18.0     21.3      1.3 ]J   0.6
Electric Energy       36.8      9.6     14.8      17.5      0.0 ]/   0.0
Metallurgy            12.4      3.2       3.5      4.2     22.3      10.8
Engineering          128.2     33.5     13.9      16.5     50.3      24.5
Building Materials   17.3       4.6      2.5       3.0      3.4 a/   1.7
Chemical Industry    56.9      14.9     15.8      18.8     49.9      24.3
Light Industry        52.8     13.8      5.8       6.9     34.1      16.6
Food Processing       15.2      4.0      9.6      11.4     39.2      19.1
Others                 6.4      1.7      0.4       0.5      5.1       2.5
Total              382.6    100.0     84.4    100.0    205.6    100.0
Sources: a/ k/ Central Office of Statistics (a) and Ministry of Industry (b).
g/    Statistical Yearbook of Foreign Trade, 1987 ed.



-4-
2.05        The sector can be divided into the mining and electric energy
subsectors, which together represented about 24% of industrial value added in
1987, and the manufacturing subsectors whi.'! account for the balance.   The
overall structure of the sector has been relatively stable over the last decade.
At the subsectoral level, the shares of engineering and chemical industries
increased gradually, while the mining, metallurgy and light industries showed
a downward trend. Among the manufacturing industries, engineering industries
account for the largest share, representing one-third of industrial value added,
followed by chemical and light industries, each of which account for 14-15%.
Among the engineering industries, transport equipment and general machinery
occupy leading positions, while technology-intensive branches - electronic
equipment and precision instruments - are emerging as new growth areas. In terms
of investment, mining is the leading subsector, followed by chemical, electric
energy, and engineering industries. Regarding employment, the engineering (32%)
and the light industries (23%) are most important, followed by the food
processing industry (14%), while the chemical industry contributes a much smaller
share (8%). Changes in the industrial structure in the period 1975-87 are shown
in Annexes 2-1. 2-2 and 2-3.
2.06        Industry is dominated by large, in many cases vertically-integrated,
state enterprises, which makes the sector highly concentrated and contributed
to a lack of domestic competition. Small, including private, firms have shown
dynamic growth since the early 1980s, but their share is still very limited by
international standards (see chapter III).
2.07        Export Performance.  Industrial exports in 1987 were divided equally
among convertible currency markets and Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
(CMEA) markets.   The subsectoral composition of i-.dustrial exports to the
conm -rtible currency markets is quite different from exports to the CMEA markets.
While the exports to convertible currency markets are relatively evenly
distributed among engineering products (24%), chemical products (24%), processed
food (19%), light industry products (17%) and metals (11%), exports to the CMEA
markets are heavily concentrated in engineering products (63%), mainly transport
equipment and general machinery (see Annex 2-4). Regarding trade balances by
industrial branches, the engineering industries show moderate to large trade
surpluses with CMEA countries while they are in a substantial trade deficit with
convertible currency markets. The chemical industry is in deficit in both the
convertible currency and CMEA trade. Meanwhile, the food processing industry
is in surplus in both the convertible currency and CMEA trade, although the
subsector is largely judged to be uncompetitive (para 2.12).  Further details
of trade balances by product groups are shown in Annex 2-5.
2.08        Industrial exports to convertible currency markets improved in 1987
with an estimated 5% growth in volume, reversing their decline in 1985-86 (see
Annex 2-6).   The turnaround in 1987 was caused by strong upturns in the
engineering industry (especially general machinery and precision instruments),
the chemical industry (especially plastic and other synthetic material products),
light industry, and the food processing industry. It benefitted from support ive
measures by the Government to make convertible currency exports more attractive
(see below). In 1988, the favorable export trend continued. In the first six
months, the dollar value of industrial exports to convertible currency markets



was about 20% higher than the corresponding period in 1987. Metallurgy products
showed a particularly high growth rate (30%), followed by processed food. The
export growth of engirneering products has remained moderate. The rapid growth
of industrial exports appears to be largely due to a recovery of international
prices of intermediate goods v-uch as aluminium, steel and polyethylene. At the
same time, th- tighter domestic demand management policies also contributed to
export growth.
2.09        Export Promotion Policy.   To create a favorable environment for
convertible currency exports, the Government has been engaged in an active
exchange rate policy since 1985, by which the real effective exchange rate has
been depreciated by about 5% per year. During 1985-86 however, the policy was
unable to o-ercome the worsening of the non-Ruble terms of trade.  The situation
ameliorated in 1987 as the export prices of intermediate goods improved.  To
promote exports and competition in trading activities, the Government has
increasingly decentralized trade and introduced from the beginning of 1988, an
automatic granting of trade rights, subject to enterprises meeting specified
criteria with respect to traded items and skills of enterprise personnel. As
a result, during the first six mo.ths of 1988 about 600 legal entities and 110
private individuals applied for export rights, of which most were registered.
Further export promotion measures include a system of automatic duty drawback
for exporters, a duty free zone, a trade policy fund at the Ministry of Trade
for export promotion activities, and a 5% profit tax rebate as well as a grant
facility for newly established trading houses.
2.10        Export Investment Promotion Program.   Since 1975 the Government hbs
provided enterprises with a set of incentives for export-oriented investments
to promote exports to convertible currency markets. Any investment project that
exports at least 60-70 percent of its output and can pay back the total cos,. of
investment from net convertible currency receipts within five years from the
start of investment was eligible for exemption from accumulated assets tax,
profit tax rebate of half of interest payments, extended maturity of credit (up
to 12 years) and state equity allocation. In 1988, the exemption of accumulated
assets tax has been replaced by a 50% rebate on the value added tax (VAT) on
export-oriented investment goods, which in 1989 would be extended to a full
exemption of VAT on such investment goods. (By comparison, the rebate on VAT
for other investment goods amounted to 20% in 1988, while further increases in
rebate of 20% per year wr ld be realized during 1989-92.)
2.11        The  eligibi.  y  criteria  for  participation  in  the  program,
particularly the relatively high export content and short pay-back period are
fairly stringent and may exclude some profitable projects, especially large
scale,  capital  intensive ventures.    Nevertheless  results have been quite
substantial. In 1986 and 1987, the increases in convertible currency exports
as a result of the program, are estimated to be about US$210 million and US$230
million respectively, which is substantial in relation to the size of the
country's total convertible currency exports, i.e. US$4.1 billion in 1986 and
US$5.1 billion in 1987.
2.12        Competitiveness.    A  study  on  the  policies,  performance  and
constraints affecting the industrial sector, carried out jointly by the



- 6 -
Government and the Bank,!/ analyzed the international competitiveness of
Hungarian industry. The analysis indicated that nearly three-quarters of the
sector is potentially competitive as measured by a domestic rasource cost (DRC)
below  1.1.    Most  of  the  processing  industries  demonstrated  potential
competitiveness, including machinery, engineering and light manufacturing, while
food processing and ferrous metallurgy were largely in the uncompetitive
segments. The study also concluded, however, that productivity growth in the
manufacturing subsectors, especially in capital productivity, was below
international norms. Two of the poorly parforming subsectors, coal mining and
ferrous metallurgy, have been a drain on the economy.   The author'ties have
recognized the need for restructuring these subsectors, and a restructuring plan
for metallurgy that will eliminate the need for Government subsidies after 1990
has been prepared and implementation has started. Concerning coal mining, the
authorities have started with closure of a few unprofitable pits and are
developing a restructuring program for the subsector which will be finalized by
early 1989 ir. the context of the second tranche release for the Industrial Sector
Adjustment Loan (ISAL, para 1.02).   The Project would include support for
measures to alleviate the adverse employment impact of restructuring in these
two industries (paras 2.20 and 5.26).
2.13        DeveloRment Constraints.   Improvement of sector performance  is
hampered by a number of constraints which fall into two broad categories: the
policy and institutional environment in which enterprises operate, and
constraints at the enterprise level. At the Dolicv level, the economic reforms
which were initiated in 1968 and reinvigorated in 1985 replaced the physical
planning system with a new system of economic management, linked to markets.
While this important achievement improved the environment for economic efficiency
in industry, some strategic issues remain which adversely affect the performance
and restructuring of industry.  Broadly, these are: (i) limited domestic and
international competition, (ii) limited resource mobility, and (iii) lack of
financial discipline and weak autonomy of enterprises.   Within the overall
economic stabilization and reform program, these three strategic issues are being
addressed in a comprehensive industrial policy reform program which is summarized
below (para 2.16). The policy environment and investment orientation have also
favored large state enterprises and reinforced the high degree of concentration
of the sector. In this respect, the development of small and medium-sized firms
has been hampered by the biased policy framework (para 3.11).
2.14        At the enterprise level, constraints toward improved  performance
include: (i) insufficient market orientation caused by a number of factors,
including the lack of domestic competition, orientation of many enterprises
toward the less demanding domestic and CMEA markets and limited exposure to
foreign markets, and reliance on external trade organizations which insulated
enterprises from their clients and suppliers; (ii) underdeveloped corporate
management skills, particularly in the areas of strategic planning, marketing,
product development, and financial management; (iii) inadequate organization
structures, lines of authority, and management information and accounting
systems, particularly for cost control and budgeting; (iv) obsolete technology
2/ Hungary - Industrial Policy. Performance and Prospects for Adiustment
(Report No. 6124-HU, dated September 30, 1986).



- 7 -
and aging production facilities, which has been largely caused by constraints
on foreign exchange availability and inadequate R&D efforts; (v) proliferation
of products manufactured by enterprises including a large number of low volume
and unprofitable activities, which contributes to high levels of vertical
integration and the lack of specialized component manufacture; and (vi) lack of
sufficient quality inputs for production due to the underdeveloped feeder
industries for supply of parts and components, and restrictions on foreign
exchange availability that severely constrained alternative imports of necessary
inputs.
2.15        DeveloRment Strategv.  The medium-term strategy for restructuring
of the sector,   developed jointly by the Government and the Bank under the
previous industrial restructuring projects (para 2.41), combines the industrial
policy reform prograir and a program of specific restructuring measures, including
investments. The strategy aims to change the structure of industrial production
by emphasizing activities where Hungary has a dynamic comparative advantage and
potential for convertible currency exports; and to improve the productivity and
competitiveness of existing production facilities through technology upgrading,
production rationalization, and organizational and managerial improvements. The
industrial policy reform program would create the necessary incentives to
encourage restructuring and enhance efficiency, while the specific measures would
facilitate an adequate supply response to the policy reforms. The Project has
been designed to support the above restructuring strategy and is intended to help
stimulate the restructuring at enterprisee level to make the sector more
competitive.
C. The Industrial Restructuring Program
2.16        The industrial restructuring program was refleciced in a Letter of
Industrial Policy Intent of May 1986, and provided the framework for the Bank's
lending for two industrial restructuring projec'-s in Hungary during 1986-87.
Both the original letter, and an updated letter in connection with the second
project, expressed the Government's commitment to: (i) implement a comprehensive
program of reform covering eleven policy areas; and (ii) maintain a supportive
macro-economic policy environment. The program has been reviewed semi-annually
during the last two years. The matrix of policy actions which summarizes the
program has been updated and elaborated as further steps needed in the reform
were identified. The program for 1988-90 was developed further in the context
of the recent ISAL, and is elaborated in the President's Report of that Loan
(Report No. P-4796-HU, dated May 27, 1988). The matrix of policy actions covers
eleven areas which are central to the basic objectives of the program to reform
the Hungarian  economic  system.    These  areas  are:  entry  of  enterprises;
liquidation; international trade; pricing; taxation; wage differentiation and
worker mobility; capital market development; the banking system; the enterprise
management system; direct foreign investment; and technology development. Since
1985, measures have been implemented in line with the agreements and timing
reflected in the policy matrix.
2.17        The main emphasis of the reform program for 1988-90 is on those areas
which are most likely to have an immediate impact on the country's macro-economic
problems, and on the realization of the main objectives of the reform program



- 8 -
in the industrial sector (financial discipline, enhancement of competition, and
resource mobility). Therefore, the greatest attention is given to: (i) further
reduction in budgetary support to inefficient enterprises and subsectors, and
stringent application of the liquidation framework; (ii) import liberalization
and strengthened incentives for convertible currency exports; (iii) facilitation
of entry of new enterprises and private entrepreneurship; (iv) further reform
of taxation, pricing, and wage systems; and (v) reduction in producer and
consumer subsidies.
2.18        The ISAL was designed to support the accelerated implementation of
the above priority areas, and provides the sector policy framework for the
proposed Project. Agreements reached under the ISAL, include those related to
the macro-economic program in line with agreement reached with the IMF under the
Standby Arrangement (para 2.03), as well as introduction of the following main
measures related to the industrial policy reform program:
(i)         Entry of enterprises.  The new Law of Association enacted on
January 1, 1989, enables individuals to form limited liability and joint-stock
companies, and authorize private individuals to hold shares in such companies.
The employment limit of companies with private shareholders has been set at 500,
which represents an important increase from the employment limit on private firms
of 30 persons prior to 1989.  To further improve the opportunities for small
businesses, a unified company profit tax system has been introduced in January,
1989 (see iv below).
(ii)        Liquidation.  The Government has eliminated its assistance to loss
making/inefficient enterprises outside the liquidation and refloatation
framework, and its guarantees of loans and bonds for the refloatation
organization. This commitment has been complemented by limiting the budgetary
allocation to the refloatation organization, and implementing action plans to
resolve the problems of chronic loss-making enterprises and crisis subsectors
(coal and metallurgy), including bankruptcy procedures. Measures introduced in
January 1989, will further tighten the liquidation framework.
(iii)       International Trade.  The Government has taken steps to increase the
relative profitability of convertible currency exports as compared to CMEA
exports, and has liberalized access to foreign trading rights. Reductions in
tariffs would be made as agreed with GATT. Procedures for import licensing are
being streamlined to improve access of exporters to imported inputs. To improve
access to imports by enterprises and increase competition in the local market,
the government has initiated in 1989 a program which would liberalize imports
over a three-year period (1988-91). In 1989, the program would eliminate import
licensing requirements for 35-40% of the import bill, which share would reach
80% in 1991. Access to imports by small, including private, firms also has been
facilitated in 1989.
(iv)        Pricing. Wage. Tax and Enterprise Management Reform. The requirement
for all firms to report price increases in advance has been discontinued from
April 1988. Thereafter some 53% of consumer goods have been removed from price
controls, which will be increased to 62% in 1989, and to about 70% in 1990. Of
producer prices, 57% are now without control. Further deregulation of pricing
is taking place during 1989-90, including abolishment of mandatory price



- 9 -
calculation requirements by private firms and of the import pricing rule. The
mandatory upper limits on wage scales have been abolished, and from January
1989, enterprises are free to determine individual earnings subject to an overall
ceiling on their wage bill related to performance.   Further streamlining of
enterprise taxation, including for small business firms, took place through the
introduction of a unified company profit tax law in January 1989, in conjunction
with the new Law of Association. The system of autonomous enterprise management,
based on elected enterprise councils and assemblies, will be extended.
(v)         Capital Markets and Banking System.   The Government has enabled
introduction of 'capital tickets' (non-voting profit sharing instruments) by
enterprises to their employees. The enterprise and household bond markets have
been integrated.  New accounting and auditing regulations to make enterprise
accounts more transparent and in conformity with international standards, and
expanded financial disclosure requirements have been issued. From January 1989,
enterprises are permitted to open current accounts with more than one bank, and
the Government has initiated the full integration of banking services for
households and enterprises to be completed by 1990.
(vii)       Technology Development and Direct Foreign Investment.  Technology
development is one of the major objectives of the program. The Government will
concentrate R&D resources to selected priority areas, streamline the procedures
for approval of licenses, and continue to make R&D by enterprises more market-
oriented.   Measures for improving the accounting treatment of intellectual
property have been introduced. To promote foreign investment a separate Foreign
Investment law has been introduced in January 1989, and the Government is
intensifying promotional campaigns to attract foreign capital and is entering
into investment protection agreements with a rumber of countries.
2.19        In addition to the industrial policy reform program summarized above,
the Government's industrial restructuring strategy includes support for the
development and implementation of restructuring programs for enterprises that
have the potential to be competitive internationally. The Project 'ould support
the restructuring strategy by measures to accelerate the realization of the
objectives of the industry-wide reforms at the enterprise level, including
through reorientation of product/market strategies with focus on more competitive
areas and convertible currency exports; strengthening of structure, organization
and management capabilities; upgrading of technology and production facilities;
and stimulating small business development. It would also help to address the
adverse impact of restructuring on employment.
D.    Employment Impact of Restructuring and Government Measures
2.20        Employment Impact of Restructuring.  There will be social costs to
the implementation of the restructuring program. The most significant will be
the appearance of open unemployment.  The right to a job is embodied in the
Hungarian constitution and the pressure to maintain full employment has a
pervasive influence.   As a consequence, hidden unemployment is an important
feature of the economy as enterprises have been very reluctant to make employees
redundant even where there is obvious overstaffing.   At the same time, wage
policies, which have depressed wage levels, have stimulated demand for labor.



- 10 -
2.21        As a result, there is little evidence currently of job shortages in
most areas of Hungary.   For the country as a whcle, statistics at employment
offices indicate that by mid-1988 there were nearly five vacancies fcr every
person looking for a job.   Some areas however are much less well off.   In
Szabolcs county in the north east of Hungary, for example., the number of
unemployed is in excess of the number of vacancies. These regional disparities
are exacerbated by low levels of geographic iabor mobility, partly caused by the
difficulty in finding housing in the more prosperous areas such as Budapest.
Moreover,  although  the  overall  job  balance  app:ars  positive,  there  are
indications of a mismatch between the skills required for vacant jobs and the
skills of those available for work. In this respect, job opportunities are most
difficult to find for unskilled workers.
2.22        The  overall  employment  picture  is  expected  to  change  fairly
substantially in the near future, as the Government's restructuring program is
likely to force enterprises to become more efficient.   Given the extent of
underemployment, this could lead to important labor redundancies in the
industrial sector. The redundancy problem is likely to be exacerbated by trends
in labor supply. While in the past several years the Hungarian labor force has
fallen, it is projected to increase in the medium term mainly as the result of
a steep rise in the number of school leavers over the next few years.
2.23        In the near term, jobs are most evidently at risk in two industries
which are undergoing restructuring,  steel and coal mining.   In steel,  the
Government has decided to reduce overall output from 3.4 to 2.6 million tons and
to change the composition of output. Over the next three to four years and
allowing for early retirement, the total number of workers likely to be made
redundant is in the rang. of 6-7,000.   In coal mining,  allowing for some
reemployment of skilled workers (particularly those employed at the coal face),
the Government es;imates that some 5,000 jobs are at risk. Therefore the total
job losses that are likely to occur in these two most affected industries in the
next two to three years is in the range of 11-12,000.  The great majority of
these will occur in the north of Hungary, which is currently the least prosperous
part of the country.
2.24        In the longer term, potential job losses through redundancy of 150-
200,000 are commonly quoted in official circles. Though there is little direct
evidence to support these estimates, the prevalence of underemployment tbroughout
the industrial sector is such that labor redundancies of important magnitude are
not unrealistic.  The extent to which the Government and individual enterprises
will be prepared to accelerate the industrial restructuring program depends
critically on there being measures in place to ease the process and to stimulate
new employment in those areas which are most adversely affected.
2.25        To address the emerging employment problems, the Government currently
employs two sets of policy measures. First, the Government provides financial
support to job-creating investment projects in particular tegions through the
Regional Development Fund which started operations in early 1987, and the
Employment Fund which became operational at the beginning of 1988. Second, it
iias started to develop, as part of the Employmer.t Fund, a range of employment



- 11 -
services and retraining measures to assist displaced workers to find new
employment.  Each of these measuiis is briefly discussed below.
2.26        Promotion Gf Job Creating Investment.  Tnie two Funds referred to
above provide financial support (using various instruments) towards the fixed
investment cost of projects which create new jobs.  In both cases support is
discretionary and is meant so be limited to 30% of fixed capital costs and with
a maximum support cost per job of FtlO0,000 (about US$1,900). Assistance under
the two measures is planned to increase over the next few years.   In 1989
approvals are likely to be in the order of Ft2.0-2.5 billion (about US$38-48
million). Though similar in objectives, the two Funds differ as to the areas
to which they apply and the way they are administered.
2.27        The Regi2pal Development Fund applies to seven of Hungary's 19
counties.   While these include areas affected by restructuring, the Fund is
principally aimed at the so-called backward areas which have long been depressed.
The Regional Fund is the responsibil'ty of the National Planning Office (NPO).
About 20% )f disbursements iz administered centrally by the State DeveLopment
Institute (SDI), while the balance is administered locally by the seven county
councils. The portion of the Fund which is administered locally is allocated
between the counties on the basis of an assessment of the need of the areas.
Wjithin the ,ounties, officials appraise applications for support and final
decisions are made locally by a committee comprising representatives of a range
of organizations, including commercial banks.
2.28        The Employment Fund is the respornsibility of the Wages and Labor
Office (WLO) and while county councils assess proposals and express a view on
them, appraisals are undertaken centrally and final decisions made by an inter-
departmental committee.   Projects from any of the 19 counties may apply for
assistance but preference is given to those from areas affected by restructuring
and from backward areas. As a consequence disbursements are much more evenly
distributed than is the case with the Regional Fund, though over a quarter has
been allocated to Borsod County in the north of Hungary, the area likely to be
most adversely affected by industrial restructuring in the short term. Further
details on the operation of the two measures are given in Annex 2-7.
2.29        While thare is an important need to stimulate new employment
opportuaiLies in a number of areas of Hungary, there is a concern that as they
had been constituted and operated the two Funds failed to address this need for
a number of reasons. First, in comparison with many otter countries which are
seeking to promote new economic activity in depressed areas the measures in force
in Hungary disperse aid over a very wide geographic area. 'Fcond, the limit on
support per new job created is low and, combined with the   .ficulty on the part
of many enterprises in getting access to foreign exchange,  lis has promoted the
development of very labor intensive activities with limited technological
content. While these absorb surplus labor in the short run, many projects are
marginal in business terms, and will do little to support the growth of a new
economic base for long term self-sustaining development in the affected areas.
2.30        Third, there is considerable doubt as to whether, as they are
currently administered, the two schemes support those projects which would not
have proceeded without assistance. Project appraisal skills, especially within



- 12 -
the county councils, are poorly developed and the eligibility criteria and the
rules which govern the terms on which assistance is provided are frequently
breached. Further, monitoring procedures to ensure that enterprises which have
received assistance are fulfilling their obligations, are limited. Fourth, the
two Funds would be more effective if they were part of a package of economic
development  measures  applied  in each  affected  area.    The  lack  of  soft
infrastructure assistance, including business and technical advice, enterprise
training or industry-specific promotion initiatives, has reduced both the number
and quality of applications for support from the two schemes. Fifth, under both
measures the bulk of the funds have been used to support projects of large
enterprises, and virtually no assistalce has been extended to small firms. This
has tended to p;omote the further growth of branch manufacturing plants in
assisted areas, carrying out only production operations and offering a narrow
range of manual jobs. This limits the development of an indigenous economic base
in these areas.
2.31        These concerns and a series of proposals to improve the operation
of the two schemes have been discussed and reviewed with the Government. On
this basis, the Government has decided to merge the employment promotion aspects
of the two schemes into a sing.. program with a single set of application and
appraisal procedures. The implementation of these adjustments has started on
January 1, 1989, and a new revised program will be fully operational in January
1990. The main features of the adjustments are as follows:
(i)   Program assistance will be narrowed geographically and focussed on those
regions which are most in need, with allocation of funds to affected areas
based on economic indicators. During 1989, program support will be focused
on four counties which are facing highest employment problems, namely
Borsod, Komarom, Nograd and Szaboles counties. By June 1989, the NPO will
finalize a detailed set of economic criteria on the basis of which regions
will be selected for program support from 1990;
(ii) On January 1, 1989, the application of the two schemes has been unified
in terms of the eligibility criteria for program support. As part of these
criteria, the limit of support cost per job has been raised to Ft500,000
(US$9,600). Details of the eligibility criteria are shown in Annex 2-8;
(iii) From January 1, 1989, the county councils are responsible for appraisal
and approval of State support funds for:  (a) investment projects which
involve maximum State program support of Ft5 million or maximum investment
of FtlO million, and (b) investment projects related to the establishment
of new small firms with employment up to 30 persons.  Other investment
projects will be dealt with by the SDI which will also monitor the
appraisal work of the councils to ensure that they adhere to eligibility
rules and to ensure consistency in approach;
(iv) Appraisal of investment projects by the county councils and the SDI will
be carried out by teams of specialists with appropriate training.
Appraisal teams at the SDI and the four counties mentioned above are being
strengthened to carry out business-like evaluations of investment projects
and will be operational by March 31, 1989;



- 13 -
(v)   The earlier range of support instruments will be reduced to a single
instrument, a grant;
(vi) County councils which are eligible for support under the program will
formulate overall economic development strategies and programs with focus
on efficient employment creation, which seek to build on the comparative
advantages of each affected area; and
(vii) The small business sector will be given special "r-euragement, including
through the design and implementation of speciaL programs in assisted
regions.
2.32        The Hungarian Government has u Jertaken to carry out the above
adjustments to its investment promotion program for regional employment creation
to be fully effective by January 1, 1990. ln support of the program, the Project
includes a separate credit facility for .i-1 creating investments (para 5.26),
and technical assistance for strengthening of investment appraisal skills and
for the preparation of a regional development plan for Borsod county (para 5.38).
2.33        Employment and Retraining Services.  Apart from its support elements
for job creation, the Employment Fund (EF) is the main labor adjustment program
to mitigate the labor dislocations created by restructuring. The EF includes
several benefit programs: extended notice of unemployment, unemployment
allowance, retrain,ng allowances, early retirement, public service employment,
support for individuals wishing to start new businesses and other support within
the jurisdiction of the WLO.  It obtains its resources from the State Budget
based on an annual plan developed by the Wages and Labor Office (WLO) and
approved by the Council for Wages and Labor.
2.34        These employment and retraining programs are new and, while they
address some of the problems of dislocation, they need to be refined if they are
to be cost effective and serve increasing numbers of workers. Based on a review
of the operations of the EF, the Bank has made recommendations for actions to
strengthen the operation of the EF, as well as related employment services,
retraining programs, and special services to enterprises/communities which may
experience large scale layoffs.
2.35        The Bank's review indicated that the current operations of the EF
can be strengthened in four areas. First, the administration and operation of
the Fund should be adjusted to maximize the benefit programs for individual
workers as well as for the country as a whole. Information needs to be collected
on how the funds are utilized and more precise methodologies need to be developed
to allocate funds by region, client, category of benefit, sector, and size of
enterprise. Second, employment services for displaced and new workers should
be expanded.   A national network of employment offices has been established
recently, which primary role is to administer the EF benefit program and operate
the employment exchange.   This role needs to be broadened to ensure that
displaced workers are returned to active employment as soon as possible and in
the most cost-effective manner.  Third, expertise should be developed within
Hungary to provide enterprises and communities experiencing major layoffs with
quick and highly focused in-plant employment services. In other countries, this
has been proven to be one of the most effective ways of redeploying workers with



- 14 -
the least disruption. Fourth, the current retraining services are insufficient
to deal with increased needs with regard to the number of clients to be served
or the type of services required. To address these shortcomings, a system of
adult training should be developed by WLO in cooperation with county councils,
including the establishment of adult retraining centers in counties experiencing
major worker dislocation.   Such centers should provide training in basic
(academic) education, skills training, customized training to support new
business investment, and training and assistance for small business development.
Details on the current operation of the labor adjustment programs of the EF and
of proposals for its further development are contained in the Project File.
2.36        The Government is in agreement with the thrust of the above proposed
adjustments to the current labor adjustment program. Further detailed analysis
and field testing of new employment and retraining services in Hungary will be
required before a comprehensive program for the country can be esta1lished. To
assist the WLO in the initial phase of enhancing and strengthening the program,
the Project includes a program of technical assistance and limited investment
support (para 5.39). At the same time, the Bank has initiated, jointly with the
Hungarian authorities, a comprehensive human resources review, to be completed
in 1989, which will examine in more detail aspects of marpower and labor market,
training and retraining, and higher education and profeasional training. The
results of that review would also be used for further devalopment of the labor
adjustment program.
E. The Bank Group's Industrial Assistance Strategy
2.37        Since it started lending to Hungary in 1983, the Bank's strategy for
assistance has focused on supporting Hungary's program of structural adjustment
in the economy, to make it more efficient, flexible, market responsive and
competitive in external markets, particularly in the convertible currency area.
Until the mid-1980s, Bank involvement in the industrial sector took the form of
investment projects in support of export development, energy conservation, and
development of the fine chemicals industry. From 1985, the industrial policy
reforms, which were designed in close collaboration with the Bank, have been the
cornerstone of the Bank's lending to Hungary. The main vehicle of Bank support
to the reform has been the two industrial restructuring projects, with a "hybrid"
design which combined subsector and enterprise restructuring with support to the
policy changes. As the economy deteriorated during 1985-86, the Bank advised
the Government to accelerate the reform process while further strengthening the
macroeconomic and sector policy content of lending operations. The recent ISAL
with its explicit coupling of the economic stabilization and structural reform
objectives is an evolution of this process.
2.38        There is a strong complementarity between adjustment lending and
investment  lending  in Hungary.    Systemic  reform  supported by  adjustment
operations will provide  the necessary supportive policy and institutional
environment and increase the likelihood of success of the investment operations.
As such, the proposed Project would complement the Bank's assistance in support
of the policy reform program under the ISAL.   It also has been designed to
provide continuity and build on the first and second restructuring loans, and
would help to accelerate the technological, managerial, physical and financial



- 15 -
restructuring of Hungarian industrial enterprises. The Bank's involvement in
the restructuring projects has evolved with each operation. While in the earlier
projects a large share of loan proceeds were earmarked for preappraised
restructuring invest.4ents in selected priority subsectors, this Project will move
further toward industry-wide restructuring support and devolve decision making
and resource allocation authority to the banking system.   The Project also
extends the Bank's assistance to two new priority areas, namely (i) the
development of the small, including private, business sector, and (ii)
development of measures for efficient employment creation and for new employment
and retraining services.
2.39        Since Hungary's joining IFC in 1985, IFC's main focus of activities
has been the promotion of direct foreign investment, introductLon of modern
technical know-how and management systems, and improving competitiveness of
selected industries through joint venturas, development of capital markets, and,
in collaboration with the Bank, advice on reforms related to the financial system
and on the Law of Association.   IFC participated in the establishment of a
private joint venture bank and in financing three industrial ventures. IFC is
actively considering support to several new joint ventures and a program to
assist cooperatives and private sector enterprises in Hungary, either directly
or through a 'package' approach using a financial intermediary, and is exploring
the provision of equity financing to small scale private enterprises. The roles
of the Bank and IFC in Hungary have been complementary and, with regard tc the
financial  system,  collaborative.    Regarding  the  involvement  of  the  two
institutions in the cooperative and private sectors, the Bank would continue to
focus on support for policy reforms to provide a stable environment for
restructuring and small business development, support for institution building
(particularly within the banks), and combined financial/technical assistance to
firms through lines of credit.   IFC would focus on larger,  preappraised,
investments either directly or through the 'package' approach. IFC would provide
financing facilities for appropriate financial and industrial enterprises, and
continue expanding its financial sector investments, including contractual
savings (eg. life insurance) and leasing businesses.   IFC would continue to
collaborate with the Bank in providing further technical assistance in the
financial sector.
F.    Progress under Previous Related Bank Operations
2.40        The Industrial Export and Restructuring Project (Loan 2397-HU), for
which a US$110 million Bank loan was approved in March 1984, included support
for 15 preappraised export-oriented and material saving/background subprojects,
two credit line components to finance similar subprojects meeting agreed
eligibility criteria, and technical assistance to carry out subsector studies
and for institutional strengthening of NBH.   The Bank loan is now fully
committed, and implementation of the project has been satisfactory.
2.41        The first Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 2700-HU), for which
a US$100 million Bank loan was approved in May 1986, included specific measures
in support of the policy reforms, as well as of the restructuring of the plastics
processing subsector which served as a model for restructuring of promising
subsectors.   Implementation of the project is well underway.   The Second



- 16 -
Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 2834-HU), for which a US$150 million Bank
loan was approved in June 1987, supported a deepening of the policy reforms, as
well as the restructuring of several subsectors (rubber processing, and
agricultural and food machinery manufacture), and a pilot component for
development of feeder industries.   The initial enterprise response to the
subsector and feeder industry credit line components has been on the slow side,
but is now accelerating. Other project components are advancing satisfactorily.
Coordination arrangements for the two projects have been strengthened with the
full establishment of the Restructuring Program Office (RPO). An early review
of the implementation of the two industrial restructuring projects indicates the
need to improve the understanding and application of the restructuring concept
by the enterprises, the commercial banks, RPO, and the Ministry of Industry.
Steps have been taken to strengthen the RPO with related technical assistance
in order to provide assistance to the enterprises and commercial banks in this
respect. The experience with the two projects has also underlined the need for
well functioning project coordination arrangements in Hungary for these
multi-component projects in order to reduce supervision input by Bank staff.
2.42        The Industrial Secto-: Adjustment Loan (ISAL, Loan 2965-HU), supported
by a US$200 million Bank loan, was approved on June 21, 1988. Disbursement of
the first US$100 million tranche has taken place, and good progress has been
made by the Government to meet the conditions for the second tranche release for
which a review is expected to be completed in February 1989 (para 2.18).
III. THE SMALL BUSINESS SECTOR
A.    Background and Structure
3.01        In post-war Hungary much emphasis was placed on promoting heavy
industry and on development of enterprise activities in a concentrated fashion.
Private sector business activities were heavily discriminated against.  As a
result, the industrial sector became dominated by large firms, and small business
activities were insignificant.   During the 1980s, the policy environment for
small business became steadily more positive.   In line with the evolving
legitimacy  of  the private  sector  in Hungary,  the  authorities  introduced
regulations during 1981-82, which moderated the controls on employment limits
and registration of small private sector businesses. The supply response of the
small business sector has been considerable. While the sector's share of total
output and employment (an estimated 7% and 5% respectively) remain modest, it
has become the economy's most dynamic sector. During 1982-1987, in the context
of liberalization but also of continuing policy discrimination in many areas and
in the absence of a supportive framework (e.g., no institutional credit,
training, and extension of physical infractructure facilities), the small
business sector has outperformed the overall economy and the industrial sector
in increases in employment, output and productivity.   A major step in the
creation of opportunities for small firms has been the introduction in January
1989, of a greatly revised association (company law) framework and a simplified
and unified company profit taxation system, the common principle of both being
neutrality in treatment of enterprises of different ownership sectors (public,



- 17 -
cooperative and private) and scale (large and small). The dynamic performance
of the sector, as well as the further policy measures by the Government to
enhance the role of small, including private, firms, provides a good basis for
Bank support to the sector.  Details on the structure and performance of the
sector, which are summarized below, are given in Annex 3-1.
3.02        Prior to the new association framework introduced in 1989, the small
business sector in Hungary included (i) proprietorships which have been permitted
up to 30 employees, (ii) partnerships with up to 30 members and 30 additional
employees, and (iii) small cooperatives, which prior to January 1988, were
permitted up to 100 members plus 25% additional workers, and which since then
have been permitted to have an unlimited number of non-member employees.   In
proprietorships and partnerships the owners and partners have unlimited
liability.   The small cooperative is a limited liability framework and has
provided a fairly simple registration requirement for private individuals who
wis;i to undertake for-profit ventures.      Sectoral level laws and regulations
distinguish between the rights and obligations of legal and non-legal entities.
The impact of the distinction in practice has been to differentially allocate
rights and obligations between the socialist (cooperatives and state enterprises)
private (proprietorships and partnerships) sectors.
3.03        The  Hungarian  small  business  sector,  excluding  agriculture,
comprises: (i) 185,000 proprietorships (referred to variously as entrepreneurs,
private traders, private industries and craftsmen); (ii) 11,000 partnerships
(GMK's and civil law associations); and (iii) 2,500 small cooperatives. These
include, in the industry and related services sector: 32,000 full-time
proprietorships employing 52,000 people; 3,400 partfnerships employing 21,000
people; and 900 small cooperatives employing 45,000 people.
3.04        Information sources on the small business sector in Hungary are few.
The growing importance of the sector has not been accompanied by provisions for
data gathering and publication which would permit the adequate monitoring and
analysis of the sector's development. The Project provides for the carrying out
of a comprehensive study of the structure, performance and developments
constraints of the sector (para 5.37).
B.    Recent Performance
3.05        Hungary's small business sector has experienced rapid growth in
recent years in terms of units and employment. Over 1984-1987, proprietorship
units increased at an annual rate of 5%, partnerships at a rate of 32%, and
small cooperatives at a rate of 75%. Small business employment increased over
1984-1987 by 90-95,000, compared with an estimated net loss of some 100,000 jobs
in the economy as a whole. Reported output in the small business sector expanded
at an annual rate of 50% in current prices in the 1985-1987 period (compared with
inflation rates over the same period cE 5.3 - 9.5%).
3.06        The fastest growing small business sectors have been transport,
retail, personal services and construction.   The small industry sector is also
growing rapidly and is outperforming large scale industry in output and
employment increases. The annual growth rate of gross output over 1985-1987 for



- 18 -
small industry was 28% in current prices, as compared to growth in the socialized
industrial sector of 3.2% during that period.
3.07        The most rapidly growing group, in terms of new units, employment
and output, has been the small cooperatives.    In the small industry sector
cooperatives, output per employee during 1985-1987 expanded at an average annual
rate of 22% in current prices, compared with 12% for large cooperatives.
Further, employees in small cooperatives earned 43% more than employees in large
cooperatives in 1986, and the pre-tax profits of small cooperatives averaged 20%
of revenue as compared with 13% for the larger ones. The most rapidly growing
industrial branch for the small cooperatives has been engineering, which accounts
for 59% of small cooperative industrial gross output, and 40% of total
cooperative sector output in the engineering branch.
3.08        Within Hungary's small business sector,  small cooperatives and
partnerships are more advanced than proprietorships. The small cooperatives and
partnerships, as cempared with the proprietorships, are generally (i) more
recently established; (ii) larger in terms of number of employees; (iii) more
export oriented; (iv) equipped with more modern technology, especially the small
cooperatives; (v) staffed with a younger and more educated labor force; and (v)
more productive in terms of output levels per worker.
C.    Institutional Framework
3.09        The  small  business  sector,  not  including  small  traders,  is
represented by four umbrella type organizations.    KIOSZ is the organization
which represents proprietorships.   Membership has been obligatory for all
craftsmen. OKISZ represents large and small cooperatives. It is an obligatory
membership organization.   The Chamber of Commerce, while it has tended to
represent the state enterprises, has had a small technical division which has
represented the views of partnerships and others in the small business sector.
These three organizations are relatively well financed and participate in the
development of new laws and regulations through regular consultations with state
authorities.   Both KIOSZ and OKISZ provide services to members in training,
information, technology access, finance and marketing. The fourth organization,
the Association of Small Businesses (VOSZ), established in February 1988, is an
independent, voluntary membership organization for small firms in the
manufacturing, service and commercial sectors. VOSZ has made representations
to official bodies on the new Association Law and the new taxation system, and
has actively solicited information from its members on likely demand for credits
under the Project.
D.    Development Constraints
3.10        The small business sector has confronted constraints in a number of
areas: the policy and regulatory framework, access to technology, financial, and
supporting services.   Thiese constraints are in many ways historical and are
related to the relatively recent official acceptance of the sector's legitimacy.
On the other hand, the strength of the sector is also related in good measure



- 19 -
to the entrepreneurship and business skills which were developed over the long
period in which the sector was tightly restricted.
3.11        Policy and Regulatory Framework.  The major problem identified by
small business managers has been the lack of policy stability.   While small
businesses have been operating in an environment which has grown steadily more
positive since 1982, the extensiveness and rapidity of the legal and regulatory
changes  present  uncertainties  to  businesses  in  making  decisions.    The
introduction of changes through the issuing of regulatory decrees, rather than
through laws, has tended to temper tie confidence of the entrepreneurs as they
are aware of the facility with which further regulatory changes can be made.
3.12        Small businesses in Hungary have been discriminated against in a
number of areas: (i) special taxes on private ventures (the entrepreneurial and
countervalue taxes); (ii) skill-based licensing requirements for entry; (iii)
restrictions on the legal forms of business organization available to private
individuals not associated with the socialist sector including the absence of
limited liability frameworks; (iv) limitations on the raising of capital, with
only individuals directly working in a venture being permitted to invest capital;
(v) profile restrictions, especially in importing and exporting, and in domestic
wholesale and distribution activities; and (vi) limitations on the number of
employees.
3.13        The most important areas of policy discrimination are being addressed
in the context of the ISAL, which will help create a more appropriate framework
for the establishment and growth of small businesses (para 2.16).   The most
significant reforms will be achieved by the introduction in January 1989, of a
new Association Law and a unified and simplified company profit taxation system.
The new Association Law (i) allows private individuals to form limited liability
companies without participation of a legal entity; (ii) permits individuals to
form or invest capital in companies (including deposit partnerships and limited
liability companies) in which they are not directly engaged; (iii) increases the
employment level of private companies (including partnerships and limited
liability companies) to 500; and (iv) removes registration authority from local
and state authorities and assigns it to the registration courts, which will
register firms based on their meeting standard minimum requirements rather than
the granting of concessions. Proprietorships, which are considered individuals,
and small zooperatives, which are under the cooperative law, are not covered by
the new Association Law. A separate law to be enacted by mid-1989 will deal with
the transformation of state enterprises and cooperatives in other company forms.
The revised taxation system introduced in January 1989, is intended to be neutral
as to sector and scale and has eliminated the special taxes on private ventures.
The tax on profits, for all forms of companies (both legal and non-legal) will
be a uniform 50X except for ventures with profits of less than Ft3 million,
which will pay 40X. (Proprietorship may choose to be taxed under the Personal
Income Tax, or the Company Profit Tax).
3.14        In the area of international trade,  the small business sector
(particularly proprietorships and partnerships) has faced severe restrictions
on access to imports. This has created a major obstacle to the availability of
foreign technology and operating inputs from convertible currency sources. Small
private firms, as non-legal entities, were not permitted to import directly



- 20 -
except as private individuals subject to the higher tourist rates of import
duties and wiLhin the limited foreign currency allocation of about US$600 for
three years per individual. In the context of the reform of the regulations on
foreign trade from January 1989, the import regime is made more neutral by types
and sizes of firms. In this respect, imports related to own production of small
firms would be facilitated. Also, small limited liability companies would be
eligible to act as export/import agents for other firms subject to meeting
certain skill requirements. In the medium term, the unification of custom tariff
rates is also contemplated.
3.15        In the area of domestic trade, the Government is taking significant
measures to encourage the entry of new firms and greater competition. During
the first quarter of 1989, a new law of domestic trade will be presented to
Parliament for approval.   In wholesaling and distribution under the new Law,
private limited liability companies will be eligible for registration as
wholesale traders and the list of products which cannot be traded except with
special Ministry of Trade permission will be reduced. In related changes in
retail trade, private traders will be permitted to have more than one shop thus
opening up the possibility for private enterprises to have small retail chains
or groups, and skill-based entry restrictions for private traders will be relaxed
through the simplication of licensing requirements and procedures.
3.16        As indicated above, there has been considerable progress toward a
more competitive framework over the 1986-88 period and the pace and direction
of the changes should help to promote the accelerated development of the small
business sector. It is the ir,tention of the Government to monitor carefully the
implementation of the new Association law and its impact on the small business
sector, including any remaining constraints to the entry and competition of small
firms. In this respect, certain aspects of the new Law and related regulations
have been identified which may discriminate against small firms and which need
careful monitoring. These include: (i) skill-based registration requirements
in a wide number of small industry areas which in practice can operate as
bureaucratic restrictions on entry; (ii) the relatively high minimum capital
requirements for limited liability companies of about Ftl million (about
US$19,000) of which 50% should be paid in at registration, which may restrict
entry of small firms; (iii) the discrimination against one-man limited liability
companies compared to other limited liability companies, including regarding the
minimum initial paid-up capital (100% versus 50%), and the mandatory appointment
of an external auditor irrespective of size; (iv) skill requirements related to
the granting and maintenance of foreign trading permits and rights of companies,
which are barriers to the access of small firms to convertible currency exports
and imports; and (v) the continued distinction in the Law of Association between
legal and non-legal entities which may provide an opportunity for continued
discrimination against small (non-legal) firms.  Progress in these areas will
be monitored in the course of Project supervision and as part of the general
policy dialogue between the Bank and the Hungarian Government.
3.17        Financial Constraints.  Small businesses have been financed by their
owners from their own or informal sources.  Equity financing has come almost
exclusively from private resources of owner/operators.   There have been no
significant flows of formal sector credit to small businesses. At the end of
1987, it was estimated that there were less than 300 commercial term credits



- 21 -
outstanding to the 165,000 non-retail sector proprietorships, partnerships and
small cooperatives.   From early 1988, commercial banks have begun to develop
services to the small business sector and these are expected to expand rapidly
as the banks move into what has been a largely untapped market.   Technical
assistance supported by the Project will strengthen the small business financial
services capabilities of the banks (para 5.33).
3.18        Inadequacy of Supporting Services. Hungary does not have an adequate
supporting network of accountants, lawyers, bankers and other professionals
experienced in providing services to small businesses. Nor does it have firms
or institutions that provide financial, technical assistance, training and
infrastructure geared to the needs of small businesses.   Within the private
business sector and the financial sector, ventures are currently being developed
to provide these services.
3.19        The further development of the small business sector in Hungary will
contribute significantly to the restructuring of the industrial sector and
economy as a whole, assisting to make it more flexible and competitive, and, by
responding to the demonstrated dynamism and innovative capabilities of the small
business sector, will contribute to growth in output and employment. The Project
includes a credit component in support of further growth of this dynamic part
of the economy.
IV. INDUSTRIAL FINANCING
A. Overview of Financial Sector Reform
4.01        The reform of the financial sector entered the implementation phase
from January 1, 1987, in line with agreements reached by the Government with the
Bank under the previous industrial restructuring projects.   From that date,
credit functions of the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) were separated from its
central banking functions and entrusted to three competitive, full-service
commercial banks set up for the purpose (Budapest Bank, Commercial and Credit
Bank, and Hungarian Credit Bank). During the initial six months of operation
until July 1, 1987, enterprises were not allowed to change their banks to provide
time to the banks to get their operations established. From then on, enterprises
can have their current account in any one bank of their choice. As a further step
to promote competition among the banks, enterprises are permitted to open current
accounts with more than one commercial bank of their choice from January 1, 1989.
4.02        The major change in the structure of the financial system in 1989
is the integration of banking services for the enterprise and the household
sectors. Until January 1989, individuals were not permitted to have acce'ints
in commercial banks, but only in the National Savings Bank, the Post Oft   i
Savings Bank and the savings cooperatives. From January 1, 1989, individuals
are permitted to open accounts in all commercial banks.   Simultaneously, the
National Savings Bank (NSB) is permitted to deal with the enterprise sector.
Interest rates in the enterprise and household sector are being harmonized from
January 1989.   Also,  as part of the decentralization of foreign exchange



- 22 -
operations, from March 1989, the commercial banks would be able to buy foreign
exchange from NBH on behalf of their clients.
4.03        The establishment of the two-tier banking system has required the
setting up of mechanisms for implementation of the monetary program of the
Government and the management of the credit policy through indirect instruments
instead of direct credit allocation. The instruments for such monetary program
management (reserve requirements, refinancing and rediscounting mechanisms) were
created with the two-tier system, although their operation has sometimes been
difficult in an economic situation which requires contraction of credit (para
2.03). The second group of measures necessitated by the creation of independent
banks, was a system for prudential regulation of banks. A new organization -
The State Bank Supervision Board - was set up for the purpose in the Ministry
of Finance, and has carried out the first complete review of the loan portfolios
of the three major commercial banks as agreed under the Second Industrial
Restructuring Project.
B. The Banking System and Credit Policies
4.04        The Hungarian financial system now consists of four basic types of
institutions as shown in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1
Institutions in the Financial system 1/
Domestic Commercial Banks             Specialized Financial Institutions
1. Budapest Bank (BB)                 1. Construction Industry Bank
2. Commercial and Credit              2. Industrial Dev. Bank (IDB)
Bank (CCB)                      3. Innofinance
3. Hungarian Credit                   4. Investbank
Bank (HCB)                      5. Small Ventures Bank (SVB)
4. Agrobank
5. Foreign Trade Bank (FTB)
6. Gen. Bank for Venture Finance (GBVF)
7. Gen. Banking and Trust Company (GBTC)
8. Interbank
Savings Banks                         Joint Venture Banks
1. National Savings Bank (NSB)        1. Central European International Bank (CEIB)
2. Post Office Savings Bank./         2. Citibank Budapest
3. Savings Cooperatives (260)         3. Unicbank
1/    Not including subsidiaries of banks and Hungarian banks abroad.
2.    Has been licensed as full-service commercial bank.
4.05        The largest segment are the commercial banks. They hold about 53%
of the total assets of the financial system (except the central bank) and dealt,
until January 1, 1989, only with state enterprises, local councils, large



- 23 -
cooperatives and other entities in the socialist sector of the economy. A few
of the banks are setting up capabilities to service the small business sector
(para 4.15). The second largest group of institutions consists of the savings
banks. A major new institution - the Post Office Savings Bank - has been formed
from July 1, 1988. This group accounts for about 39% of the assets ef the
financial, system.
4.06        The most diverse group consists of the five specialized financial
institutions which are an evolution of the innovation funds set up in the early
1980s, and later transformed into Innovation Banks.   These are full-fledged
financial institutions except that they are not permitted to operate current
accounts of their borrowers.   They have pioneered and developed a number of
financial services in Hungary, such as leasing, hire purchase, real estate
development financing and quasi-equity profit-sharing participation instruments.
They deal mostly with small cooperatives, small state enterprises and private
entrepreneurs. This group accounts for 3% of the assets of the financial system.
Three banks among this group (Agrobank, General Bank for Venture Financing, and
Interbank) received licenses to become full-service commercial banks from January
1, 1989. Finally, the foreign joint venture banks account for about 5% of the
total assets of the financial system. They are involved in trade finance and
leasing activities for small enterprises, cooperatives and private sector
ventures.
4.07        Since the three large commercial banks (BB, CCB, and HCB) hold the
major share (about 47%) of the assets of the financial system outside NBH, their
financial performance in the initial year (1987) was critically important to the
development of a genuine two-tier banking system. In this respect, the three
banks have completed the first year very successfully with high profits, enabling
them to bring down their combined debt/equity ratio from 25:1 to 13.9:1, which
results in much more appropriate financial structures for the banks. Table 4.2
shows a comparison for the three major commercial banks of selected financial
ratios at year-end with projections made at the  commencement of the year.
Dividend pay-out ratios have been kept at acceptable levels and the remaining
earnings have been fully capitalized.
4.08        As agreed with the Bank, a detailed portfolio review was carried out
by each bank during which all loans were classified according to criteria
acceptable to the Bank. Following the review, the banks were required to set
aside a total of FtlO.38 billion as provisions for substandard loans.
4.09        NBH issues credit policy guidelines approved by the Council of
Ministers each year, for the implementation of the Government's monetary program.
Until 1987, these credit policy guidelines were the main instrument of credit
control.   Their character has changed over  the past  few years with  the
progressive liberalization of the economic management system. Fewer quantitative
restrictions are now laid down.  The only two target numbers now being used are
the planned deposit growth rate and the permissible expansion in net long term
credit for investment purposes.



- 24 -
Table 4.2
Selected Financial Ratios for Three Maior Commercial Banksl/
(Ratios as of December 31, 1987)
Proiected       Actual
0oerations
Growth of assets                          10.0%           12.2%
Growth of share capital                   12.1%           63.2%
Profitability
Return on total assets                     2.2%            3.3%
keturn on year-end equity                 47.4%           46.0%
Structure
Year-end equity/debt                       4.8%            7.6%
Year-end equity/assets                     4.6%            7.2%
Loan provisions/assets                     2.0%            2.3%
1/    Budapest Bank, Commercial and Crediu Bank, and Hungarian Credit Bank.
4.10        During the last quarter of 1986 and the first quarter of 1987, credit
policy was fairly unrestrictive to facilitate the introductory period of the
banking reform. From the second half of 1987, more restrictive policies were
implemented as required by the economic stabilization program. In the fourth
quarter of 1987, a 3% decline in credit outstanding was achieved by raising the
refinance rate by two percentage points for working capital credit, and reducing
the refinance limits for working capital credit also.   During 1989-90 the
stabilization program will continue to require a restrictive monetary policy and
tight restraints on credit expansion.  During 1988, net long term credit for
investment purposes was targeted to expand by only Ft 10 billion, which implies
a reduction in investment credit in real terms.
4.11        The Bank has been providing support for the development of the new
two-tier banking system in Hungary through technical assistance and support for
financial systems development. Under the first industrial restructuring project,
assistance was provided for office automation and MIS systems for NBH.  The
second restructuring project includes support for the design and initial
establishment of a banking clearing center, while assistance is provided to the
participating financial institutions for the development of their policies and
operating procedures,  including for appraisal of subloan applications.   The
proposed Project would extend assistance to the participating banks for small
business credit training (para 5.33). The Bank is also assisting the Government
to prepare a separate financial system modernization project, which would support
further developments in the Hungarian financial system and capital markets,
including assistance to the participating institutions for their institutional
development including automation of operations.   That operation would also
support the establishment of the International Training Center for Bankers (ITCB)
in Hungary, for which the joint venture formation agreements between the
Hungarian banks and the Centre Internationale de Formation de la Profession
Bancaire of France were signed in October 1988. The center will start operations
in February 1989.



- 25 -
C. Industrial Investment Financing
4.12        Industrial investment lending policies of the banks are all contained
within the envelope of credit policy guidelines issued annually by NBH, in
pursuance of fiscal and monetary policy targets set by the Government each year.
Given the need for the Government to follow contractionary monetary policies in
the coming years (para 2.03), it is unlikely that the banks will have
unrestricted access to long term refinancing during the period, and their
investment lending policies are likely to be more conservative as a result.
Lending policies followed by the banks differ markedly according to the origin
of the institutions.   The three large commercial banks have inherited their
project appraisal and credit management methodology from the period when credit
functions were carried out by NBH itself, and very little credit was extended
outside  the socialist sector of the economy.   Consequently they need to
strengthen their capacity for risk analysis and loan follow-up. On the other
hand, most of the specialized financial institutions always dealt with new
ventures, participated in risks and have as a result, a much more market oriented
outlook and flexible operating methods.
D. ExROrt Credit and Insurance
4.13        Hungary has had an active export credit and insurance program since
the late 1970s. The official exRort credit system is designed to cover mostly
supplier credits to meet post-shipment financing needs. Financial support can
be short-, medium-,  or long-term.   Mixed credits are only used sparingly.
Official export credit amounted to about Ft4.4 billion (US$95 million) in 1987,
dowrn from a peak of Ft7.6 billion (US$166 million) in 1985.  While official
credits declined as a percentage of total convertible currency exports, they
increased their coverage of exports to developing countries. Three different
Government entities administer export credits: Ministry of Trade, Ministry of
Finance, and the National Bank of Hungary (NBH).   The participation of the
commercial banks (mainly Foreign Trade bank and Hungarian Credit Bank) is
limited; they act mainly as a conduit for funds and information between the
Government and the exporters. ExRort credit insurance is offered by the Hungaria
Insurance Company.   It offers political risk and exchange rate insurance on
behalf of the Government, and commercial risk on its own behalf. Transactions
which can be insured include exports of goods and services, consignment stocks
held abroad, lines of credit, holding of construction equipment, and overseas
investment.
4.14        While the overall export credit and insurance system is largely
competitive with such systems in other countries, a review by the Bank revealed
a number of areas where improvement is required to stimulate Hungarian exports.
Based on the review, the Government is taking steps to address the current
shortcomings of the system. In this respect, it has undertaken to strengthen
the system in 1989, including (i) establishment of a general system for pre-
shipment financing and a system of buyer's credit; (ii) promotion of access to
export financing by small (including private) firms; (iii) broadening of the
commercial risk coverage of export credit insurance; and (iv) execution of a
review and analysis of the system's performance to assess its competitiveness
and effectiveness.  The institutional framework  for the system will also be



- 20 -
streamlined with the establishment of a new and independent export credit agency.
A feasibility study for establishment of such agency will be undertaken in 1989,
which establishment is foreseen by June 1990. The involvement of commercial
banks in the system is also expected to be increased with decentralization of
foreign exchange operations of the banks starting in March 1989.
E. Small Business Financing
4.15        Small business firms in Hungary have traditionally been required to
be self-f!nancing, a practice which has been exacerbated, until recently, by
policy and institutional restrictions (para 3.17). Prior to 1988, the banks had
no staff, systems or procedures oriented to small businesses. During the first
half of 1988, several financial institutions have undertaken initiatives to
develop capabilities in the field of small business lending other than the
personal lending which has been carried out by the National Savings Bank. A
number of them have opened small business departments with segregated and
specialized branches, staff, accounts and procedures.        The initial efforts,
however, have concentrated on raising deposits from the sector rather than
providing either working capital or term credits. As of June 1988, the banks
had raised about five forints in deposits for every forint extended in credits
to the sector.
4.16        The limited portfolios of the commercial banks in the small business
sector result from (i) previous restrictions on commercial bank lending to
private firms (proprietorships were considered part of the household sector and
thus were dealt with by the National Savings Bank); and (ii) the banks'
perception of the sector's poor creditworthiness, low liquidity and inadequate
collateral. Available data does not support this perception, however. At the
end of 1987, a group of 933 small cooperatives, for which information was
provided by the banks, had Ft34 million in term debt compared with Ftl,884
million in net fixed assets; and Ft860 of short term credit compared with Ft4,395
million in current accounts and short term deposits.   This indicates  the
existence of a largely untapped credit market for the banks.
4.17        The participating banks have relatively weak capacitie3 for financing
small businesses, and most do not have written guidelines and procedures for
applications and appraisals of small business loans. Management and staff are
inexperienced in small business lending and have little first-hand knowledge of
the sector. To strengthen the policies and procedures of the banks for small
business financing the proposed Project includes technical assistance and
training (para 5.33).
F. The Financial Intermediaries Involved in the Project
4.18        The fourteen financial intermediaries involved in the onlending of
the Bank loan can be divided into four groups according to function and
institutional characteristics. These are: (i) seven of the domestic commercial
banks (BB, CCB, HCB, Agrobank, GBVF, GBTC and Interbank); (ii) one joint venture
bank (Unicbank); (iii) the Post Office Savings Bank which has been licensed as
full-service commercial bank; and (iv) five specialized financial institutions
(Construction Industry Bank,  IDB,  Innofinance,  Investbank and SVB).   The



- 27 -
institutional, operational, and financial aspects of the participating banks have
been examined by the Bank. On the basis of this review, the banks are considered
to be satisfactory intermediaries for onlending the proceeds of the Bank loan.
Summary balance sheets, income statements and significant financial indicators
of the participating banks are presented in Annex 4-1. The overall performance
of the participating banks will be monitored closely to determine their continued
capability to act as viable intermediaries. NBH has agreed that it will monitor
continued compliance of the participating banks with the agreed criteria for
their participation in onlending of the Bank loan, including maintenance of
satisfactory policies, procedures, staffing and financial situation.
4.19        The capacities of the various banks to appraise subprojects and
sponsoring enterprises satisfactorily differ. In this respect, as noted above
the major commercial banks traditionally dealt with the larger state enterprises
and built up banking capacities accordingly, while the specialized financial
institutions have been involved with smaller ventures (para 4.12). Also, banking
supervision and prudential requirements in Hungary for banks with commercial
banking license are more stringent than for the specialized financial
institutions (para 4.03), including monthly monitoring of portfolio quality,
level of provisions and liquidity.   Therefore, it was agreed that the nine
participating banks which have been registered as full-service commercial banks -
namely the Hungarian Credit Bank, Commercial Credit Bank, Budapest Bank, General
Banking and Trust Comptay, Unicbank, General Bank for Venture Financing,
Interbank, Agrobank, and Post Office Savings Bank - would be eligible to
participate in onlending of World Bank funds to all beneficiaries which satisfy
the relevant eligibility criteria. The five other participating banks which are
registered as specialized financial institutions - namely Industrial Development
Bank, Innofinance, Investbank, Small Venture Bank, and Construction Industry Bank
- would be eligible to participate in onlending to beneficiaries with a value
of total assets of not more than US$20 million equivalent in each case prior to
the subproject proposed for financing, and involving subloans with a value of
not more than US$2 million equivalent in each case.
4.20        In line with agreements reached under the second restructuring
project, the participating banks would set their interest rates on the basis of
the following principles which are contained in the policy statement of each of
the banks: (i) the rates would include an adequate spread to cover the bank's
operating costs including adequate provisions for doubtful debts; (ii) the rates
would be positive in real terms; and (iii) the rates would not subsidize any
category of borrowers. This is in line with the arrangements under the recent
banking reform, which allow the banks to set their own deposit and lending rates.
In this respect, the lending rate structure in Hungary has been satisfactory in
the past. Also, NBH's rediscount rate, currently 14%, which would determine the
final lending rate, is positive in relation to anticipated domestic inflation
in Hungary.   (In 1488, lending rates temporarily have been negative in real
terms due to the relatively high domestic inflation of about 16% as a result of
the introduction of the VAT in January 1988 which led to price adjustments
throughout the economy). Annex 4-2 provides an overview of recent interest rates
in Hungary. At negotiations, it was agreed that the participating banks maintain
interest rates  in accordance with the above principles.   The Bank would
periodically review these interest rates to ensure that they continue to adhere
to the above principles, and to safeguard the profitability of the banks.



- 28 -
V.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives and Scoge
5.01        To support the restructuring of the industrial sector in order to
enhance its international competitiveness,  the Project aims to help:   (i)
redirect the product/market mix of the sector to more competitive areas suitable
for convertible currency exports; (ii) improve enterprise management practices
and capabilities; (iii) stimulate the establislment and growth of small business
firms including the private sector; (iv) alleviate the employment impact of
industrial restructuring; and (v) strengthen the institutional capabilities in
support of industrial restructuring with emphasis on the banking system. The
proposed Project would complement the recent Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan
(ISAL), provide continuity and build on the first and second industrial
restructuring projects (para 2.41), and provide assistance in the development
of two new areas closely related with the restructuring program, namely the
support for development of small firms and for addressing the adverse employment
impact of restructuring.
5.02        The Project, supported by a US$140 million Bank loan, includes three
credit components to be onlent through several eligible participating banks to
support enterprise investments for:
(a)   increased direct and indirect exports to convertible currency markets
related to the implementation of enterprise restructuring programs
(The export-oriented enterprise restructuring component:   US$110
million of the Bank loan);
(b)   growth of entrepreneurs and small businesses (The small business
development component: US$10 million of the Bank loan); and
(c)   efficient employment creation in regions which are affected by
emerging unemployment as a result of industrial restructuring (The
regional employment creation component: US$15 million of the Bank
loan).
The PrQject also includes technical assistance to strengthen the operations of
the participating banks in the area of small business credit, to prepare
enterprise and subsector restructuring programs, to improve the analytical
framework for the small business sector, and to help improve the Government
measures for addressing unemployment, including limited investment support for
the further development of employment and retraining services (The technical
assistance component; US$5 million of the Bank loan).  Table 5.1 provides an
overview of the Project objectives and its components.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.03        The Project contains two main novel features in the Bank's assistance
program for Hungary, namely the assistance for small business and entrepreneurial
development, and for development of measures to address emerging unemployment.
These are both expected to contribute significantly to the establishment of
necessary conditions to accelerate restructuring in the country.   In this
respect, the Bank has played an important role in the analysis of development



- 29 -
issues and options in these two areas, which are reflected in the design of the
Project. A major contribution of the Bank has been the review of issues related
to the small business sector, and the design of an appropriate small business
credit component to be included in the Project. The close involvement of local
banks in the design of this component would ensure, for the first time in post-
war Hungary, the establishment of specialized credit facilities to the small
business sector, including the private sector. Furthermore, the Bank's review
of the Government sponsored schemes for addressing emerging unemployment problems
has contributed to adjustments in the schemes, while the Project provides for
support for the further development of the policy and institutional framework
in this area. Continued Bank involvement in support of the Hungarian industrial
resLrucLuriuig effort would further help improve the necessary institutional
framework to facilitate restructuring at the enterprise level, particularly
through the strengthening of the bankirg system, and help improve the
understanding of the actual implementation of the industrial policy reforms at
the enterprise level and facilitate feedback for identification of necessary
adjustments to the reform process.
Table 5-1
Overview of Prolect Objectives and Components
Projct Objctives          Main Project       Supporting Components i/
Components a/
Strengtheningof e xport
_________                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~credlit end. lsurance
system (new expofl
crodit agency)
ROFii[d Wodurmrwket 
mix to copeitve arm                               .
- o ~~~~~~E)W -a;eted ente-   r
_=" iiastnxWngof                  restngoour
Improve entptes (enterpss)
Inrov *o       /                      \w
Engineering
Subsecor sludy
(Ministry of Indutry)
Smaii business
credt trainng
(parikelcPalng banks)
Stimulate growth email,    Wkm  ca
businesses/ati
Smal& businesas
(Contrai Statistics Otfice)
Invosenon support for   sr nofr  ngirvastmanet
rgao job crsdon        appraw kil
(job cr-ft firms)-     (State Development nln-
AnaWate ernpbitatennty m,nni S)
if~~~~~~~~~(ae S& Ofs~ _ ce
Assutanch ooso In dIep
and retrainn f| (Nlon@n P|f fie
*Now Ofmpl'oyItwd sah eS  lkl
-RoWning iods
*m iualayoit "icos
Wages & Labor Oiflco,
county aoundls)
a/ Roei      _      gerdas no  bracdts. 
I Barik   s onint through participating bnis.



- 30 -
C. Project Description
1. Export-oriented Enterprise Restructuring
5.04        Objectives.  To promote investments in highly competitive areas as
a strong incentive for enterprise restructuring, and to help improve the
country's balance of payments in the medium term, the component would be oriented
toward supporting development of exports to convertible currency areas.  The
investments to be supportbd would meet the following criteria: (i) they must
directly or indirectly be export-oriented; (ii) the sponsoring enterprise should
be managerially, commercially and financially healthy; (iii) they must be part
of a well defined overall enterprise business plan/restructuring program; and
(iv) they must be sound from commercial, technical, financial, economic, and
environmental points of view. These eligibility criteria are elaborated below.
5.05        ExWort Orientation.   Proposed eligibility criteria are based on the
criteria, with slight modifications, of the Hungarian Export Promotion Program
(para 2.10) which are also reflected in the credit policy guidelines of NBH, and
which are judged as appropriate.   It is proposed that the Project support
enterprise investments that: (i) generate incremental exports to convertible
currency markets that exceed 60% of subproject sales revenue, and allow a payback
of the convertible currency costs of the investment by its net convertible
currency earnings within five years from the start of the subproject investment;
or (ii) allow increase of exports to convertible currency areas by enterprises
that have been exporting, and are expected to continue exporting, to convertible
currency areas, at least 30% of their total sales revenue, or maintenance by such
enterprises of exports which would have decreased without the subproject. To
support the feasibility of the export orientation of Litw inve5LiWuLL, eacia subJIU-LL
application is required to include, as part of the enterprise restructuring
program and the subproject feasibility study, the detailed export marketing plans
for the subproject output, including related organizational arrangements within
the enterprise for export marketing. As is currently the case under the Export
Promotion Program, enterprises will be monitored for continued compliance with
the above export criteria.
5.06        The Project would also support investments for supply of parts and
components to enterprises that would incorporate these in products for export.
In line with criteria under the feeder industry component of the second
industrial, restructuring project, the Project would support investments for which
at least 70% of sales revenues would represent direct or indirect exports. To
preserve the objective of promoting feeder industry activities in Hungary,
including domestic linkages, at least 40% of subproject output should represent
sales of intermediate products to be incorporated by Hungarian manufacturing
enterprises in export products. Similarly as for direct exporters, convertible
currency costs of the subprojects would need to be paid back from direct and
indirect convertible currency export revenues within five years from tiLe start
of the subproject investment.
5.07        Enterprise  Eligibility.    The  proposed  Project  would  support
enterprise investments in manufacturing industry, excluding certain heavy
industry (mining and ferrous metallurgy) and agro-processing industry.   The
latter is supported by a separate Bank-financed project with export orientation



- 31 -
which was approved on May 5, 1988.   Aside from a review of the enterprise
restructuring program (see below) which involves a judgement of the competence
and effectiveness of the enterprise management, the creditworthiness of the
enterprise and financing plan proposed for the subproject will be assessed on
the basis of an analysis of the past and projected financial situation of the
enterprise, including its ability to meet the following financial criteria: a
current ratio above 1.3; a debt/equity ratio below 65:35; and a debt service
coverage above 1.5.
5.08        Enterprise Restructuring Program.   To support the restructuring
objectives of the Project, and in continuation of similar arrangements under the
first two restructuring projects, each enterprise will be required to prepare
a business plan or restructuring program for its overall operations. Such plans
aim at providing the strat-gic framework for the future operations of the
enterprise, including the pt.posed investment. They should include an overview
of the enterprise product/market strategy including product-mix and technology
upgrading, and elimination of uneconomic activities; cost reduction measures
including rationalization of production facilities; improvement of organizational
and management systems capabilities; and the fit of the proposed investment with
the overall strategy. The plans would also include the definition of software-
type measures regarding the enterprise organization and management systems to
facilitate the implementation of the enterprise strategy, including measures to
improve the (export) marketing organization.
5.09        The previous two industrial restructuring projects have provided
various models for the preparation of such enterprise restructuring programs,
which had been defined with the help of foreign consultants. In preparation of
the Project, restructuring strategies were developed with the assistance of
foreign consultants and the Bank, for the Hungarian road vehicle manufacturing
subsector and its main enterprises, as well as for a major light source
manufacturer which is the leading Hungarian manufacturing exporter to convertible
currency markets, and these provide further restructuring examples. Details of
these restructuring cases are contained in the Project File. To facilitate the
preparation of business plans, a standardized approach to the preparation of such
plans has been developed. The Project also includes a credit facility to finance
foreign technical assistance in this area (para 5.35).
5.10        Subproject Viability.   Subprojects will be judged based on the
following main viability criteria: (i) a viable (export) market analysis and
marketing plan, including analysis of the proposed product and service support
against main foreign and domestic competitors, and of potential market share in
foreign and domestic markets; (ii) suitability of proposed technology; (iii)
minimum financial and economic rates of return higher than 18X in real terms;
and (iv) suitable safeguards against environmental impact. In this last respect,
each subproject will be assessed on its compliance with satisfactory
environmental standards (para 7.05).
5.11        Eligible Expenditures.  The proposed Bank loan would support the
foreign exchange requirements of eligible enterprise investments, including plant
and equipment, technical assistance, training, spares and tools, as well as
related permanent working capital neetds. Further, the Bank loan would finance



- 32 -
software-type investments in support of enterprise restructuring programs (eg.,
training, and design and related hardware of management information systems).
5.12        Subloan Size.  In order to spread the proceeds of the Bank loan among
eligible enterprises, it is proposed that a single enterprise which meets the
criteria of direct exporter will not be eligible under this component to receive
subloans refinanced from the Bank loan exceeding US$10 million equivalent. The
maximum subloan amount per enterprise for investments by indirect exporters would
be US$4 million to stimulate medium-sized feeder activities. It is expected that
the Project may support a few larger subloans for investments for direct exports
by enterprises with a well-established export record. In this respect, it is
estimated that the above enterprise limits may be exceeded, on an exceptional
basis, for attractive export investments, up to an aggregate amount of US$40
million, which represents 37% of the Bank loan allocation for this Project
component.
5.13        Credit Demand.   To assess the potential credit demand under the
component, a review was carried out both of past enterprise investment credit
demand, and of the pipeline of subprojects for which subloan applications are
pending or expected by the participating banks. Table 5.2 gives an overview of
historic investment credit demand for export purposes by industrial enterprises
in subsectors eligible under the Project. which qualified for assistance under
the Export Promotion Program (para 2.1C).   As shown,  eligible subsectors,
accounted for US$142.3 million equivalent of investment credits for export
purposes in 1987. The chemicals subsector has absorbed a major part of export-
oriented investment credits, while the light industry subsector increased its
share from a low base, and the engineering subsector had a decreasing share.
NBH estimated that about 50% of the credit represent the convertible currency
foreign exchange portion of enterprise investments which were financed.
5.14        The pipeline of potential export-oriented subprojects has been
reviewed with the participating banks.   Demand for new investment credit,
including for exports, was at a low level in the first half of 1988.   Main
reasons appeared to be the wait-and-see attitude by most enterprises following
the major changes in the tax framework in early 1988, and the restrictive macro-
economic demand policies including the temporary taxes on investment. By mid-
1988, credit demand appeared to be increasing. Annex 5-1 gives details on the
export-oriented subprojects that have been identified for potential support under
Project.   As shown, the list of projects represent an estimated investment
requirement of about Ft8.2 billion (US$158 million), of which about US$86.3
million in foreign exchange. These projects are all expected to be initiated
within the coming two years. Credit demand may have increased further by the
end of 1988 in anticipation of the reduction in taxes on investment in 1989, and
of the new association framework which was introduced from January, 1989. Also,
historic levels of export investment credit demand (see para above) indicate that
there is considerable scope for credit in the areas targeted by the Project.
Based on the current envisaged demand for the Bank loan, and also taking into
account the good commitment performance of the first Bank-supported industrial
export project (para 2.40), a Bank loan allocation of US$110 million is proposed
for this component.



- 33 -
Table 5.2
Industrial Credit Demand for Export Investment Purposes a/
(Annual Disbursements)
Subsector               1982    1983    1984    1985    1986  1987    1988
(Proj.)h/
-(Ft. million) ---------------------
Engineering            1,271     614      253     113      70   591      985
Construction Mat.          4      -         3       2        -    70      39
Chemicals              3,244   3,396   1,672      993   1,527 4,750   4,548
Light Industry           912     320      316   1,424   1,498 1,275      253
Total                5,431   4,330   2,244   2,532   3,195 6,686   5,825
-------------- (US$ million equivalent) -----------
Total                148.4   101.4   46.7      50.5    69.8 142.3   123.4
As X Total Exp.Cred.   68.3    66.8   54.8       58.9    60.7   n.a.    n.a.
As X Total Inv.Cred.   30.2    25.4   15.2       16.0    20.0   n.a.    n.a.
a/    Excluding for mining, metallurgy, and food industry.
k/    Based on approvals by December, 1987.
source: NBH.
2. Small Business Development
5.15        Objectives.   The proposed Project would include a refinancing
facility, for which US$10 million of the Bank loan has been allocated, for the
growth of small business firms in industry and related support services. This
component would support the Government's economic strategy of investment in
activities which increase the efficiency and competitiveness of Hungarian
industry. It would provide the additio3nal benefit of generating jobs during a
period in which the restructuring of the larger industrial establishments is
expected to increase the numbers of those available and looking for work.
5.16        Eligible firms.   The small business sector in Hungary which the
Project is proposed to address is composed of small, independent firms engaged
in industry and related support services. Under the new association framework
proposed for introduction from January, 1989, the eligible firms would be: ("
proprietorships, (ii) unlimited partnerships, (iii) deposit companies (a form
of limited partnership), (iv) small cooperatives, and (iv) limited liability
companies. Specialized contract groups, which are forms of intra-enterprise work
organizations (such as VGMKs), would not be eligible for Project support, as they
can not be considered independent business ventures, Similarly, subsidiaries
of large enterprises would not be considered for support.



- 34 -
5.17        Eligible firms would have a maximum employment level of 60 persons
prior to Project financing. The average employment level in small cooperatives
at the end of 1987 was about 50.
5.18        The Project would support established firms and entrepreneurs with
a proven  business  track  record.    To  assess  a  firm's  eligibility,  the
participating banks will appraise the firm's past performance, its business plan,
its creditworthiness and its ability to service its proposed credit.   Such
assessment would be based on simplified and flexible subloan application and
appraisal techniques, for which an outline has been agreed with the participating
banks and for which training will be provided under the Project (para 5.33).
Specific criteria for assessment of the financial health of the small firms would
be established by each of the banks in the context of their preparation of small
business credit manuals. The preparation of such satisfactory manuals by each
of the banks is a condition of disbursement of Bank loan proceeds for small
business credit purposes to each of the participating banks.
5.19        Eligible sub2rojects.   The proposed refinancing facility would
support investments in profitable activities for the growth and modernization
of small firms.   Eligible activities would be in manufacturing or related
business services, such as advisory services in taxation, accounting, management,
technical or marketing consulting, training services, computer services, or
establishment on a commercial basis of premises for manufacturing small business
firms. The participating bank would assess, in simplified fashion, the market
prospects, and technical and financial viability of proposed investments.
Specific viability indicators would be established by each bank in the context
of the small business credit manual.
5.20        Eligible expenditures.   The eligible expenditures would be fixed
assets in the form of machinery and equipment, and associated training costs and
permanent working capital.  To provide the flexibility for the participating
banks necessary for development of their small business portfolios, and to
address the current need for short-term working capital financing of the small
business sector, the Project would allow the use of up to 30X of the funds
provided through the facility to each of the participating banks, for short-term
credits to finance working capital needs in support of the operations of eligible
small firms.   The Government has confirmed access by small business firms
supported by the Project to imports of technology and operating inputs, and their
payment of commercial import duty rates, rather than the higher tourist rates
(para 3.14).
5.21        Subloan limits.  Maximum subloan limits per subproject have been
agreed which are consistent with the estimated requirements and capabilities of
the business units of the widest segment of the sector. It has been agreed that
the small business facility would refinance subloans made by the participating
bank for up to 50X of the cost of the investment.   This will encourage a
relatively high level of own funds contribution,  which is in line with the
established internal financing practice of the Hungarian small business sector.
The subloan limit has been set at US$150,000.
5.22        The subloans would be for terms of up to three years.  This period
takes into account the very limited experience in Hungary in term lending to the



- 35 -
small business sector, and the objective of encouraging investments in
subprojects with high returns and quick payback periods. Subloan maturities and
grace periods, within the three year maximum, would be set by the participating
financial institutions taking into account the repayment capability of the sub-
borrowers.
5.23        Credit demand.  The potential market for the subloans is extensive
and has been largely unserved. It currently comprises, within the industrial
and  related  services  sector:      32,000  full-time  proprietorships,  3,400
partnerships and 900 small cooperatives. These units have very low levels of
debt and an insignificant number of commercial term credits. Credit demand is
expected to be generated through the dissemination of information and other
assistance activities of the various small business organizations, KIOSZ, OKISZ,
and VOSZ (para 3.09).
5.24        The design of the facility should make  it attractive for the
participating banks to become more actively involved in this area and to develop
portfolios for small business financing Jfor details on onlending arrangements,
see para 6.05). In addition, technical assistance (para 5.33) will support the
development of specialized banking capabilities to serve the small business
sector. Concerns by the banks about potentially high risk levels and transaction
costs would be alleviated by: simplified application and appraisal procedures;
the relatively large contribution to the subproject investment from a business's
own resources; and the self-limiting of the maximum exposure of the participating
banks to a single business.
5.25        It is estimated that the average subloan under this component would
be about US$50,000 equivalent, and that the average value of the covered
investment would be US$125,000. On that basis the proposed US$10 million small
business facility would finance an estimated 200 subloans with up to 3 years
maturity during the initial round, and a total of about 1,200 subloans during
the proposed maturity periods of up to 15 years of the small business portfolio
credit lines refinanced by NBH from the Bank loan. The actual numbers would be
determined in part by the distribution by value and term of the subloans and by
the decisions of the participating banks as to whether to recycle the repayments
into subsequent  subloans.    The estimate  does not  take  into account  the
refinancing with reflows of shorter maturity working capital subloans up to a
total value of 30Z of a participating bank's portfolio under the Project (para
5.20).
3. Regional Employment Creation
5.26        Obiectives.   The proposed Project would include a refinancing
facility, for which US$15 million of the Bank loan has been allocated, to
support, on a pilot basis, the Government sponsored program for development of
job  creating  activities  in  areas  suffering  the  effects  of  industrial
restructuring (para 2.20).  Following a review by the Bank, the Government has
undertaken to make important changes to the program to make it more effective
(para 2.31).  The overall objective of the component would be to support the
development of enterprise activities which in the long term should form new and
self-sustaining economic bases for development in the affected areas.  It is
expected that the availability of a new source of credit with access to foreign



- 36 -
exchange in the areas will lead to the establishment of projects which are of
a higher quality and technological content than projects previously assisted
under the Government scheme. The focus of Project support on areas affected by
industrial restructuring would be narrower than the proposed coverage of the
Government job creation scheme, which also includes support to areas which
generally have limited economic development opportunities (so-called backward
areas).
5.27        Eligibility.   Project support would be in the form of a credit
facility for onlending by the participating banks to enterprises that qualify
for assistance from the Government-supported job creation scheme in areas
affected by industrial restructuring. Initially, three counties which will be
affected by the restructuring of coal mining and steel industry have been
selected for support by the Project.   These are Borsod, Komarom and Nograd
counties in the North of Hungary. Further areas may be selected based on an
agreed set of economic criteria (para 2.31 (i)).
5.28        The proposed investment eligibility criteria for support under the
Government program are given in Annex 2-8. In short, eligible enterprises would
include all business entities engaged in manufacturing (excluding ferrous
metallurgy), agro-processing, and business services.  Eligible projects would
include start-up of new firms, expansioti of existing firms, relocation of/and
new investment by enterprises based elsewhere in Hungary (except relocations from
other assisted areas), and investment by foreign enterprises. Projects should
create new jobs and would be subject to a limit of Ft500,000 of Government
assistance for each job created.  The amount of Government support offered to
a project would be the minimum to ensure that it proceeds, subject to a maximum
of 30% of total cost.   Investments for which assistance is given should be
completed within a three year period, and full job creation should have taken
place in four years. In assessing projec:s for Government support, full regard
would be given to financial and economic iability, including a minimum financial
and economic rate of return of 12% in real terms.
5.29        Enterprises seeking credit under the Project component would be also
appraised by the participatir.g banks against commercial, technical and financi4l
criteria similar to those proposed for projects to be financed under the other
enterprise credit components of the Project. Therefore, in the case of a small
business (employment below 60 persons, para 5.16), appraisal criteria and methods
developed for the small business component would apply. Similarly, projects for
other enterprises would be evaluated along commercial, technical and financial
criteria and methods similar for those developed for export-oriented investments
(except for the required export orientation). To spread the proceeds of the Bank
loan, the maximum subloan size would be US$2 million.
5.30        To stimulate the establishment and growth of small,  including
private, business firms in the affected areas, the sphere of eligible activities
of small firms for support under the Government scheme would be broadened to
include, besides manufacturing and related services, activities in tourism,
construction and trade.  Further, Project support would be extended to small
firms with such broader sphere of activities, which are not receiving Government



- 37 -
support under the job creation program, provided they are located in one of the
areas eligible for support under the Government-supported job creation scheme.
5.31        Credit Demand.  On the basis of a review of the projects which have
been supported under the existing support schemes (Annex 2-7) and discussions
with Government officials about future demand for funds it is estimated that the
total investment approvals for job creating projects to be supported by the
Government scheme in areas affected by industrial restructuring would be of the
order of US$100 million equivalent over the coming two years, of which an
estimated US$25 million (25X) would be in foreign exchange. The proposed credit
component therefore would cover 60X of estimated foreign exchange needs in the
next two years. This would involve some 30 subloans (based on an average subloan
size of US$500,000) and an estimated total investment of about US$60 million,
and would assist in the creation of up to 3,000 new jobs.
4. Technical Assistance
5.32        The technical assistance component would include the following
elements:   (i) assistance to the participating banks for strengthening their
operations  in small business credit;  (ii) carrying out of enterprise and
subsector restructuring studies by eligible enterprises and the Ministry of
Industry; (iii) a study to strengthen the understar.ding of the structure and
performance of the small business sector and the impact of Government policies
on the sector; and (iv) assistance to help improve Government measures for
addressing the employment impact of industrial restructuring.   Each of shese
elements is summarized below.
,mal1 Business Credit Training
5.33        The Project would include a technical assistance component for the
development of financial sector capabilities in the field of small business
development. This support would follow on technical assistance provided in the
previous two industrial restructuring projects to the participating banks to
develop policies and procedures to perform as full-service commercial banks in
the enterprise sector and to strengthen their appraisal and supervision capacity
of enterprise investments.   The component would include training in small
business lending and portfolio development to be provided by the International
Training Center for Bankers (ITCB) which is to start operations in February 1989
(para 4.11), with the assistance of specialized consultants.
5.34        It is envisaged that a series of three structured training courses
would be conducted for a total of 60 participants selected from among the loan
officers working in the small business departments or subsidiaries of the
participating banks, and from financial sector managers responsible for
management of small business sector portfolios.   Several participants are
expected to be selected from KIOSZ, OKISZ, and VOSZ staff who will promote the
Project's small business credit facility and assist firms in the preparation of
subloan application documents. The training program would involve total foreign
exchange costs of about US$150,000. Terms of reference for the training program
are given in Annex 5-2.



- 38 -
(b) Restructuring Studies
5.35        Many enterprises in Hungary do not possess sufficient in-house
expertise to prepare satisfactory enterprise business plans and restructuring
programs. As elaborated above (para 5.08), such plans provide tne enterprise
strategic framework for their future operations and their improvement to meet
international competitive standards. In continuation of similar support under
the previous industrial restructuring projects, the Project would support the
hiring of qualified foreign consultants by the enterprises to provide assistance
in the preparation of such plans and programs. Foreign costs of US$0.7 million
of such studies would be supported by the Bank loan.
5.36        Further, the Project would support the carrying out by the Ministry
of Industry (MOI) of studies to assess the performance, potential, and strategy
for broad industrial subsectors, for which US$0.8 million of the Bank loan is
expected to be used. Earlier subsector studies sponsored by MOI and supported
under the previous industrial restructuring projects focussed more narrowly on
specific subsectors (including plastics processing, rubber processing,
agricultural and food processing machinery, vacuum technology, and road vehicle
production), and involved detailed analysis of selected enterprises.   These
studies provided useful models for subsector and enterprise restructuring. In
line with the decentralization of enterprise management away from supervision
by the Government, MOI would now take a more strategic view of the future
development of the industrial sector and would focus on broader policy
instruments and infrastructure measures to stimulate priority activities. In
line with this new orientation, the Project includes support for a broader
strategy study to be carried by MOI in the engineering sector, to assess
perLuomaiiLe, curupt..iLivt!Ue,S, fULULe pLuspecLs a1LU dovelupumit prioritits,  ,LdI
identify appropriate policy instruments and infrastructure measures for
stimulating the development of priority areas. Terms of reference for the study
are given in Annex 5-3. It is further envisaged that HOI would undertake a study
related to the further development of its restructuring program for the coal
mining industry, which would be financed from the Bank loan.
(c) Small Business Sector Study
5.37        The Project would support the carrying out a study of small firms
in all economic sectors, to strengthen the understanding of the structure and
performance of the small business sector and the impact of Government policies
on the sector. The study would be scheduled for the second half of 1989 so as
to cover the initial impact of the new Association Law and unified business
taxation system.   The study would be undertaken by a team of the Central
Statistics Office (CSO) with the assistance of foreign consultants, who would
help CSO to define the methodology and procedures for carrying out the study.
Terms of reference for the study are given in Annex 5-4. The Bank loan includes
US$0.15 million in support of the foreign costs of the study. The study would
provide the basis for further analytical work by the CSO on the small business
sector, including for monitoring the changes in the sector's structure and
performance.



- 39 -
(d) Employment Creation and Services
5.38        Investment Promotion for Job Creation.  The Project would include
two technical assistance elements associated with the strengthening of the job
creation program operated by the Government (para 2.26).  The first of these
would be concerned with the development of appraisal skills within affected
counties and the central agency responsible for the appraisal of projects seeking
assistance under the program.   This would involve the employment of ioreign
experts who would train county and central agency specialists in the appraisal
of enterprise applications for support.   The second element relates to the
regional planning activities on which the Government already has commenced work.
The Project supports the use of foreign experts to assist the Government in the
development of an economic strategy for one of the areas most affected by
industrial restructuring, Borsod county. The strategy would focus on developing
county initiatives for stimulating efficient creation of new jobs. The two
technical assistance components would involve estimated foreign costs of US$0.3
million supported by the Bank loan. Terms of reference for the two technical
assistance elements are shown in Annexes 5-5 and 5-6.
5.39        Employment Services  and Retraining.   This technical assistance
component is proposed to support the Government to develop an integrated set of
employment and retraining services to assist adults who are experiencing
temporary or long-term difficulties in obtaining employment. These difficulties
may be as a result of industrial restructuring, or overall lack of development
in a certain area (i.e. a backward region).   The Project would support the
identification and testing in two counties of selected employment service and
retraining models through: (i) provision of short term fellowships for selected
state and local represuitLaLlJv  bU LVLLy c..CLL VJ.    fftr-              oe
employment services; (ii) provision of short term technical assistance to assist
in the adaptation and testing of selected new employment services; and (iii) the
provision of limited investment support for the purchase of materials and
equipment to support the field testing program. Details of the proposed support
to be provided in this area are given in Annex 5-7, and is summarized below.
5.40        Project support would be managed by the Wages and Labor Office and
would fall into four general areas.   First, the assistance will help define
methodologies to increase the effectiveness of the operations of the social
benefit programs of the Employment Fund (para 2.33). Second, support would be
provided to identify and field test selected new employment services which would
help unemployed workers find employment and terminate their need for support from
the Employment Fund.   Third, the Project will provide assistance to develop
special expertise within Hungary to deal with major enterprise layoffs. Fourth,
the Project will support development of a pilot adult retraining center in an
area affected by industrial restructuring (eg., Borsod County) for those
unemployed individuals requiring special assistance and retraining. The overall
program would involve an estimated foreign exchange requirement of US$2.9 million
supported by the Bank loan, including limited support for the purchase of related
materials and equipment. In the case of retraining assistance, the Project would
support the equipping of a pilot retraining center. Detailed terms of reference
for the above technical assistance areas have been developed and are available
in the Project File.



- 40 -
D. Project Cost and Financing
5.41        The total financing required for the Project is estimated at
US$342.8 million, of which US$140 million (41Z) is in foreign exchange, as shown
in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3
Proiect Cost Estimate
X of
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Total
---(Ft million)----  --(US$ million)W/---
Enterprise Investment
Export-oriented                 7,020  5,720 12,740  135.00 110.00 245.00  71.5
Small Business k_                 780    520  1,300   15.00  10.00  25.00   7.3
Employment Creation             2.340    780  3.120   45.00  15.00  60.00  17.5
Subtotal                     10.140  7.020 17 160  195.00 135.00 330.00  96.3
Technical Assistance
Small Business Credit Training    4         8      12    0.07   0.15   0.22   0.1
Restructuring Studies:
- Subsector                        10      42     52    0.20   0.80   1.00   0.3
- Enterprise                       10      37     47    0.20   0.70   0.90   0.2
Small Business Sector Study         3       8     11    0.06   0.15   0.21   0.1
Employment:
- Regional Plan --A
Appraisal Skills                 4      16     20    0.08   0.30   0.38    0.1
- Employment Services c/            8      26     34    0.15   0.53   0.68   0.2
- Retraining Center d/            364    125    489    7.00   2.37   9.37    2,,
Subtotal                        403    262    665    7.76   5.00  12.76    3.7
Total                        10,543  7,282 17,825  202.76 140.00 342.76 100.0
_- = .--- -- --==
% of Total                     59.1   40.9  100.0
a/ Converted at US$1.0 - Ft52.0.
h/ Only for the first round of financing.
./ Including costs for technical assistance and related equipment.
./ Including costs of technical assistance for retraining, and construction
and equipping of a pilot retraining center.
5.42        The cost estimate for the three enterprise investment components is
based on the expected costs of subprojects for which financing by the Bank loan
would be involved. In the case of the export-oriented component, the estimate
is based on the costs of subprojects reviewed in the context of the subproject
-pipeline (para 5.14), and includes costs of fixed capital investments (including
contingencies), initial permanent working capital costs, interest during



- 41 -
construction, as well as import duties on imported equipment and value-added tax
on investment. In the case of the small business component, the cost estimate
is based on an assessment of the cost of small business investment which would
be facilitated by the component, including fixed capital investment, permanent
working capital, interest during construction and related duties and taxes. In
this context, it is estimated that the foreign exchange part which would be
eligible for financing from the Bank loan represents, on average, 40% of small
business investment. For the employment creation component, the US$15 million
credit facility is expected to generate total enterprise investments of about
US$60 million (para 5.31).
5.43        For the technical assistance component, the costs refer to the
foreign and local currency costs of consultancy services and training
requirements for different purposes. Tne Bank loan would finance an estimated
US$3.00 million for foreign services, including an estimated US$2.40 million
(about 135 man-months) for consulting services and US$0.60 million for
training (including study tours), in support of the participating banks
(US$0.15 million); restructuring studies to be undertaken by the Ministry of
Industry (US$0.80 million) and eligible enterprises (US$0.70 million); the
small business sector study (US$0.15 million); and improvement of Government
measures to address unemployment (US$1.20 million).  In the latter case, the
costs for supply of materials and equipment related to the field testing program
of new employment services, as well as the estimated costs of the estabi.shment
of an experimental adult retraining center also are included in the cost estimate
shown in Table 5.3.
5.44        A summary of the financing plan for the Project to meet the above
financing requirements is shown in Table 5.4.
5.45        Since the major part of the Project consists of credit facilities
for financing of enterprise investments which will be appraised in the context
of future enterprise subloan applications, the financing plan for the Project
can only be indicative at this stage. It is based on a review of the potential
pipeline of subprojects, and of the pattern of financing of enterprise
investments in previous Bank-financed projects. For the enterprise investment
components, it is expected that the Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange
requirements.  The local currency requirements for these components would be
covered from own resources of the enterprises, and to a lesser extent from
additional subloans from the participating banks.   In the case of the small
business component, the Bank loan is expected to finance on average 40% of the
investment costs of eligible subprojects. For the employment creation component,
besides the Bank loan contribution of US$15 million, the Government is estimated
to contribute on average 15% from its job creation promotion program (para 2.26);
the balance would be financed from project entities' own resources, and local
credits.
5.46        For the technical assistance component, the Bank loan is expected
to cover the full foreign exchange needs, while lceal currency costs would be
met by: the Project entities involved, including th.. participating banks in the
case of their technical assistance programs; the ertterprises in case of
enterprise restructuring strategy studies, the small business sector study, and
technical assistance for strengthening of Government measures to address



- 42 -
unemployment.  For the overall Project, the Bank loan would contribute US$140
million, or 41Z of the estimated financing required.   During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government and NBH that they, as well as the
participating banks and the beneficiary enterprises through respective
subsidiary/subloan agreements, will promptly provide their share of financing
to carry out and complete the Project. Assurances were also obtained from NBH
that it will make available foreign exchange to enterprises and small business
firms required for financing the foreign exchange requirements of their
subprojects.
Table 5.4
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local                Foreign        Total
Local   Govt.
Project  Sub-    Contri-      IBRD
Entities loans   bution       Subloansa/
Enterprise Investment
Export-oriented           73.50   61.50     -           110.00       245.00
Small Business h/         10.00    5.00     -            10.00        25.00
Employment Creation       15.00   21.00    9.00          15.00        60.00
Subtotal             98.50   87.50    9.00         135.00        330.00
Technical Assistance
Small Business Credit
Training                 0.07     -       -             0.15         0.2?
Restructuring Studies:
- Subsector                 -       -      0.20           0.80         1.00
- Enterprise              0.20      -       -             0.70         0.90
Small Business Sector
Study                   -       -      0.06          0.15          0.21
Employment:
- Regional Plan and
Appraisal Skills         -       -      0.08           0.30         0.38
- Employment Services       -       -      0.15          0.53          0.68
- Retraining Center         -       -      7.00           2.37         9.37
Subtotal                  .2      -      7.49           5.00        12.76
Total                98.77   87.50   16.49          140.00       342.76
% of Total                28.8    25.5     4.8           40.9        100.0
a/    Including distribution of unallocated part of Bank loan among the three
enterprise investment components.
k/    First round of financing only.



- 43 -
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS
A. ?roiect ImDlementation Organization
6.01        NBH would be the borrower of the Bank loan, and would be responsible
for the overall coordination of the Project and for monitoring the use of the
loan. For each of the enterprise credit components, onlending arrangements would
be based on a refinancing facility in NBH to which the participating banks have
access on a first-come first-served basis. The participating banks would take
the final credit decision on each subloan. Subloans would be appraised by the
participating banks, with assistance from consultants and/or the Restructuring
Program Office (RPO), which was established under the first industrial
restructuring project. As in the previous industrial restructuring projects,
the RPO would continue to be involved in day-to-day implementation of the Project
in providing fee-based services to the participating banks and the beneficiary
enterprises, including assistance to the banks in their promotional efforts,
technical appraisal of subloan applications, and reporting; and to enterprises
in preparation of their restructuring programs and subprojects, procurement and
reporting. In the case of the small business component, participating banks are
expected to develop internal capabilities to carry out subproject appraisals and
provide services to small business clients, for which the Project would provide
technical assistance (para 5.33).   Also, the representative small business
organizations KIOSZ, OKISZ and VOSZ are expected to be involved in promotion of
the credit component and assistance to the small firms in subloan applications.
6.02        Regarding the technical assistance components, Project implementation
will be suvervised bv different institutions. includine: (i) the new
International Training Center for Bankers (para 4.11) for the small business
credit training program; (ii) the Central Statistics Office (CSO) for the small
business sector study; (iii) the Ministry of Industry for the subsector studies;
(iv) the National Planning Office for assistance to improve the Government
investment promotion program for job creation (strengthening of appraisal
capabilities and preparation of an economic development strategy for Borsod
county); and (v) The Wages and Labor Office for assistance to strengthen the
employment and retraining services, together with the councils in the two
counties in which new services will be introduced on a pilot basis.  Project
implementation would be monitored also by the existing Restructuring Council,
which is responsible for overall development and monitoring of the industrial
policy reform program.
B. Onlending Arrangements
6.03        As in earlier Bank operations, the Bank loan would be made to NBH
for a period of 15 years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. Proceeds of the Bank loan would be relent by
NBH for various purposes in the Forint equivalent of foreign currency needs
covered by the Bank loan. NBH would carry the foreign exchange risk on Bank
funds passed on to the Project beneficiaries. In order to regulate the flow of
funds from NBH to the beneficiaries, and to set out the obligations of the
various entities, the following agreements will be signed: (i) Loan Agreement



- 44 -
between the Bank and NBH; (ii) Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the
State; (iii) Subsidiary Loan Agreement between NBH and the State; (iv) Subsidiary
Financing Agreements between NBH and the participating banks; and (v) Subloan
Agreements   between   the   participating   banks   and   the   beneficiary
enterprises/businesses. Signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement under (iii)
above, and at least three of the Subsidiary Financing Agreements under (iv) above
is proposed as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. Further, signature
of the Subsidiary Financing Agreements under (iv) above between NBH and
additional participating banks is a condition of disbursement for onlending of
Bank funds to these banks.
6.04        For financing of eligible subprojects, NBH will onlend the Bank loan
proceeds to the participating banks through its loan refinancing facility.
Funds would be available for onlending by banks which are found to be suitable
intermediary institutions after a complete appraisal by the Bank of their
institutional, operational and financial aspects.   In this respect, fourteen
banks have been reviewed by the Bank and assessed as suitable intermediaries
(para 4.18).  All funds for onlending will be available to the participating
banks on a first-come first-served basis. No prior allocation of credit would
be made by participating bank, or by beneficiary.
6.05        The small business credit component would be based on an onlending
mechanism that would facilitate the use of the Bank loan by the participating
banks and small businesses, and which would have a number of features which are
different from the other credit components. To facilitate the development within
the participating banks of small business sector strategies, capabilities, and
financial products, and to contain transaction costs, it is proposed that the
onlending arrangements would include the follow.ng features: (4) onlendin"  h-
NBH to the participating banks would be at maturities of up to 15 years, while
maximum maturities to the beneficiary businesses would be three years, so that
the participating banks can relend repayments of subloans in surplus of
repayments by the participating banks to NBH to eligible small firms. For this
purpose, each of the banks involved in small business lending would establish
a revolving account; (ii) refinancing transactions could be carried out for
packages or groups of subloans rather than on a one-to-one basis as in the case
for subloans of larger enterprises; (iii) each participating bank would be
permitted to maintain up to 30% of its portfolio under this component in short
term credits to eligible firms for working capital purposes; and (iv) accelerated
repayments by the participating banks to NBH are permitted without penalty.
C. Main Loan Features
6.06        Subloan ApRlication. Appraisal and SuRervision.  The procedures for
subloan application, appraisal and supervision, would be based on a common
approach. Applications will be prepared by the prospective beneficiaries along
standardized formats developed for each credit component. The RPO, which has
engaged foreign consultants, can help enterprises in their subloan applications,
while a number of the local consulting firms have developed capabilities in this
area.   For the small business credit component,  application and appraisal
procedures have been simplified to stimulate credit applications.



- 45 -
6.07        The appraisal and supervision of subloans would be the responsibility
of the participating banks, which will take the final approval decision for each
enterprise credit. While subloan appraisal and supervision procedures have been
developed in the context of previous Bank-financed projects 3/, the application
of these procedures by the onlending banks involved has not always been
satisfactory.   Although assessment of financial and economic viability of
subprojects, and creditworthiness of ent_.rprises were generally satisfactory,
aspects related to strategic, commercial and technical aspects of subprojects
were in some cases inadequate.   The second industrial restructuring project
includes technical assistance for the banks to strengthening procedures and
capabilities ir. these areas, and provides for hiring of technical consultants
by the banks to review selected aspects of subloan applications. The banks can
also avail the assistance of the RPO or local consulting firms.
6.08        Concerning the small business component, the participating banks
would utilize simplified and flexible subloan appraisal techniques which would
be attractive and appropriate for boch the banks and the small businesses. These
would take into account the apparent lack of credit histories of most small firms
in this sector, while ensuring adequate concern for creditworthiness, collateral
and pr fitability.  Each participating bank would develop internal manuals and
application and appraisal guidelines and procedures for small business financing
which would be submitted to the Bank for review as a condition of disbursement
for the refinancing of small business subloans by each bank. The Project also
includes training to strengthen the banks' policies and procedures in small
business credit (para 5.33).
6.09        For the large enterprise credit components (export-oriented and
eLLt,uiv,L- e iet    ,  ULM  iarticipatirig banks wou'ld provide the Bank upon
appraisal of each subproject with summary information of the subproject on the
basis of which the Bank can either authorize the financing of the subproject
under the Bank loan, or request further information on the subproject appraisal
for review prior to such authorization. Also, appraisal documents for the first
subprojects approved by each bank under each of the components would be reviewed
by the Bank. Based on the above arrangement, there would not be a specific free
limit for Bank prior review of subprojects.
6.10        Loan Maturities. A maturity of 15 years, including five years grace,
will be applied to loan proceeds onlent to the State.   Subloans made to the
beneficiary enterprises for export purposes will have maturities of not more than
12 years, and for employment creation and technical assistance purposes
maturities of not more than 10 years, including in all cases a maximum three year
grace period. In the above cases the participating banks w'll repay the funds
onlent by them to the beneficiary enterprises to NBH on a back-to-back basis.
As explained above, maturities of subloans to small businesses will be for a
maximum of three years while refinancing by NBH to the participating banks for
small business purposes will be for maturities up to 15 years. Relending by the
participating banks of repayment surplus funds of small business loans over
3/ A detailed Operational Manual was developed under the Industrial
Export and Restructuring Project (loan 2397-HU).



- 46 -
repayment requirements to NBH will be for small business financing on similar
criteria and conditions established for the small business credit component.
NBH will repay the Bank loan on a fixed amortization schedule. Subloan repayment
surplus over the Bank loan repayment requirements of NBH will be onlent again
by NBH to the participating banks for finatLcing of subprojects eligible under
the Project. These arrangements have been confirmed at negotiations.
6.11        Onlending Interest Rates.  For financing of subprojects under the
enterprise credit components, NBH will onlend the Bank loan proceeds to the
participating banks at its refinancing rate or the prevailing Bank rate plus a
mark-up of at least 20% (comprising NBH's processing costs and a risk-bearing
premium to cover the foreign exchange risk), whichever is higher. In practice,
NBH would make the funds available to the banks at its refinancing rate, which
currently is 14% and therefore considerably higher than the Bank's current rate
plus 20% (presently 9.2%).   In turn, each participating bank will set its
interest rates for subloans on the basis of principles which are contained in
its policy statement, and which have been assessed as satisfactory by the Bank
(para 4.20).   It is anticipated that interest rates on subloan:  to sma'
businesses would be somewhat higher than for subloans to larger enterprises,  .
cover the expected higher transaction costs for such small subloans, ane to
provide adequately for their exposure. This is fully in line with sound interest
rate policy and would contribute to subproject selectivity. As part of Project
supervision, the Bank would periodically review these interest rates. Further,
all onlending by NBH to the State will be at NBH's refinancing rate or the
prevailing Bank rate plus 20%, whichever is higher. The interest rates charged
by the participating banks on local currency subloans to Project beneficiaries
would be the prevailing commercial rates.
6.12        Disbursement of Loan Proceeds. The allocation of the proposed US$140
million Bank loan is shown in Table 6.1.
6.13        Disbursement for contracts valued at less US$300,000 equivalent would
be on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) which detail the individual
transactions. The documentation to support these expenditures would be retained
by NBH, audited by i.ndependent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and made
available for review by the Bank upon request.  Applications for withdrawal
against contracts valued at more than US$300,000 equivalent would be fully
documented.
6.14        To facilitate disbursements from the Bank loan, NBH would establish
a revolving fund account. The Bank will make an initial deposit of US$6 million
into the account, which is the equivalent of the estimated average four-months'
disbursements under the loan.  For replenishment of the revolving fund, NBH will
submit withdrawal applications for replenishment for amounts not less than US$1
million.
6.15        It is anticipated that the Bank loan will be disbursed over a six-
year period, which is in line with the standard disbursement profile for Bank
loans covering similar industry sector projects in the EMENA region. Based on
the above disbursement forecast, the Bank loan would be fully disbursed toward
the end of 1994. On that basis, the closing date for the Bank loan is proposed



- 47 -
to be June 30, 1995. The estimated disbursement schedule of the Bank loan is
shown in Annex 6-1.
Table 6.1
Allocation of Bank loan
(US$ million equivalent)
Loan Category                        Amount             % Financing
(US$ million)
Eligible Enterprises:
- Technical Assistance                0.70        100% of foreign expenditures.
- Export-oriented                   104.00a/      100% of foreign exp. & 100%
- Employment Creation                13.00a./     of local exp. (ex-factory) for
goods; and 100% of foreign exp.
for consultants'services and
training.
- Small Business                      8.00a/      For goods, 100% of foreign exp.
& 100% of local exp. (ex-factory),
or 75% of local expenditures for
off-the-shelf purchases; and 100%
of foreign exp. for consul-ants'
servicos ar&d training.
NBH                                   0.15        100% of foreign expenditures
(Small Business Credit Training)
Government                            4.15        100% of foreign exp. & 100%
(Small Business Study,                            of local exp. (ex-factory) for
Subsector Study,                                 goods; and 100% of foreign exp.
Employment Assistance)                           for consultants' services and
training.
Unallocated                          10.00
Total                             140.00
a/    For the purpose of project financing,  it has been assumed that the
unallocated part of the Bank loan be distributed among enterprise
components as follows: export-oriented (to increase to US$110 million);
employment creation (to increase to US$15 million); and small business (to
increase to US$10 million).
6.16        Retroactive  Financing.   A number of eligible  subprojects  and
technical assistance components are at an advanced stage of preparation, and in
some cases have already placed contracts. Expenditures for such contracts prior
to Bank approval of the loan could amount to about US$7 million. Each of these
contracts has been reviewed by the Bank, and have followed Bank guidelines for



- 48 -
their procurement. It is proposed to allow retroactive financing by the Bank
loan for an amount of up to US$7 million, which would represent 5X of the Bank
loan.
D. Procurement
6.17        Procurement of goods and services would be the responsibility of the
Project beneficiaries, who may use the services of local foreign trading
companies. All procurement under the Bank loan will be in accordance with Bank
procurement and consultants guidelines. The participating banks would oversee
procurement by the beneficiaries to ensure efficient procurement and compliance
with Bank guidelines, for which the banks are building up their capabilities.
The Restructuring Program Office (RPO), which has built up considerable expertise
in the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures under the previous industrial
restructuring projects, would be available to provide procurement assistance to
enterprises and the participating banks. To facilitate procurement, standard
procurement documents have been agreed with NBH and the foreign trade companies.
ICB will be used for goods packages with an estimated value of US$150,000 and
above each. Hungarian enterprises competing under ICB will be eligible for a
15% preference on the CIF value of the bids, or the amount of customs duties
and taxes, whichever is lower.
6.18        Bid packages with an estimated value below US$150,000 each may be
procured through interna-ional shopping based on price quotations from at least
three suppliers in at least three eligible counties.   Goods and technical
licenses of proprietary nature may be procured through direct contracting. In
nrt-r t-n mimnlifv nr-- traj under- tAhe sma.l business Component, pr^^urement for
goods by such small firms will be on the basis of normal commercial practices
of the purchases. The aggregate limit for international shopping is expected
not to exceed the equivalent of US$20 million. Locally financed expenditures
for works and goods will be procured under prevailing local procedures which
involve competitive bidding and which are judged satisfactory. Given the nature
of the Project, largely involving support to subprojects which have not been
preappraised, no detailed estimate is available of the breakdown of total Project
expenditures by procurement methods. Hence no procurement table is included.
6.19        All bid packages for goods estimated to cost US$1 million equivalent
and above, and proposal invitation packages for consulting services and licenses
for contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation.   It is estimated that the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation would cover about 45% of the total estimated value of contracts.
The balance of contracts would be subject to random ex-post review after contract
award.
E. Reporting and Auditing
6.20        The participating banks (for the enterprise credit  omponents) and
various Government agencies (for the technical assistance components) would
submit semi-annual progress reports to NBH, which in turn would verify and
consolidate the reports and submit them to the Bank within 60 days after the end



- 49 -
of each semester. To assist in reporting, NBH would use the services of RPO on
a contractual basis. Within six months of the closing date of the Bank loan,
NBH will prepare and furnish to the Bank a completion report of the Project.
6.21        All Project accounts, the revolving funds, statements of expenditure,
and the financial statements of the participating banks and the Project
beneficiaries will be audited at the end of each fiscal year by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.   Short form annual audit reports for the
preceding fiscal year would be available to the Bank no later than by the end
of May each year.   The audit reports for the participating banks would be
submitted to the Bank, while the audit reports for the other entities and
accounts would be retained by NBH and the participating banks for review by Bank
supervision missions. The audit wing of the General Bank and Trust Co., which
has been undertaking audit activities for Bank financed projects, has been formed
into an independent share company in July 1988. Further, a number of the larger
internationally renowned audit firms are establishing operations in Hungary and
are expected to become involved in auditing of Project beneficiaries. The above
reporting and auditing arrangements have been confirmed at negotiations.
F. Supervision Plan
6.22        In order to ensure a clear understanding of Project objectives and
implementation arrangements as well as effective follow-up of Project
implementation both on the sides of the implementation agencies and the Bank
staff, a Project supervision plan will be developed and reviewed with counterpart
agencies during an early supervision mission. The plan would include: (i) the
schedule of key Bank supervision inputs and the skill mix required; (ii)
specialist staff input for review of studies, technical assistance components,
subproject reviews, and procurement documentation; (iii) aspects of the Project
that require special Bank attention during supervision (eg., quality of
subpreject approvals, and Project coordination arrangements in Hungary); and (iv)
the 1-ungarian contribution to supervision including monitoring and reporting
and staff participation in supervision missions.
G. Status of Project Preparation
6.23        The Project is in an advanced state of preparation and is ready for
implementation.   For the three enterprise credit components, procedures for
subproject application, appraisal and supervision have been prepared and agreed
with the participating banks,  and credit demand confirmed.   Regarding the
employment creation component, the Government has started to make adjustments
to the investment promotion program for job creation in line with recommendations
made by the Bank  (para 2.31).   In the case of the technical assistance
components, terms of reference have been prepared in all cases, which have been
discussed and finalized with the various executing agencies.



- 50 -
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
7.01        The  Project  is  expected  to  contribute  significantly  to  the
restructuring of Hungarian industry and to the initiation of measures to address
the adverse employment impact of restructuring. The Project would help to make
Hungarian industry more competitive, increase exports to convertible currency
areas thereby helping to improve the country's trade balance, and stimulate the
development of a more balanced structure of the sector by facilitating the growth
of small firms which would also contribute to domestic competition, exports and
employment.   The Project would help to upgrade the product-mix of Hungarian
industrial enterprises toward more competitive areas, lead to improved cost
competitiveness as a result of upgrading, rationalization and specialization of
production facilities, and facilitate the introduction of new technology.
Further, the restructuring approach at the enterprise level stimulated by the
Project, would help to change the attitudes of enterprise managers by focussing
on the strategic issues of the firms, while stimulating a greater market/client
orientation.
7.02        The development of the small business sector is an important part
of the overall restructuring of the industrial sector, and facilitates the
restructuring of other segments of industry by helping to absorb surplus labor.
The small business component of the Project would stimulate the accelerated
growth of the sector, which has been constrained by the lack of specialized
credit facilities.   The Project would provide for the establishment of such
credit facilities. The establishment and growth of small firms would contribute
to the development of entrepreneurship in Hungary, help stimulate innovation,
generate improved service activities, and create new employment. It would also
stimulate competition in the local market and increased exports.
7.03        The Project would further help to develop the necessary policies and
institutional framework for addressing unemployment caused by restructuring.
These ef  rts would help to facilitate the future restructuring of Hungarian
enterprises by providing the necessary measures to promote job creating
investment to absorb surplus labor, and allowing better mobility of redundant
workers through the development of new employment services and retraining
facilities.   These measures would therefore contribute to making Hungarian
enterprises more productive and competitive.   Other important institutional
benefits of the Project include the strengthening of the banking system to
facilitate the promotion and appraisal of small business investments, improvement
of the investment promotion program for employment creation, strengthening of
the export credit and insurance system, and improvement to the analytical
framework of the small business sector through the execution of a comprehensive
study.
7.04        Due to the nature of the Project, involving credit facilities for
investments largely to be appraised in the future, it is difficult to quantify
the expected impact of the Project on the Hungarian economy. Based on a review
of the subproject pipeline and of expected credit demand, the Pro4ect is
estimated to involve investments of about US$285-290 million equivalent (1988



- 51 -
prices) during 1989-93, which could result in additional output of about US$370
million per year by 1995.   For the export-oriented investments,  incremental
convertible currency exports as a result of the Project are estimated at about
US$165-170 million per year by 1995, while net convertible currency earnings
could amount to about US$110-115 million per year (both in 1988 prices).
Additional exports would be generated by firms financed under the small business
and regional employment components, but are difficult to estimate. The Project
is expected to have a mixed impact on employment. While the larger enterprises
are expected to increase labor only in limited cases in an effort to become more
cost competitive, employment creation would be more prevalent in the small
business firms and employment creation activities financed under the Project.
Some details of the estimated impact of the Project in the above areas are shown
in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1
Estimated Impact of the Project
Enterprise Credit ComDonents
Export-   Small    Employment   Total
oriented  Business   Creation   Project
No. of subloans                           30       200         30          260
Average subloan size (US$'000)         3,600        50        500          520
Investment (US$ million)a/             216.0     22.5        51.0        289.5
Output (US$ million)a/ b/              238.0     56.3        76.5        370.8
CC exports (US$ million)a/ hi  /       167.0      n.a         n.a        167.0
Net CC earnings (US$ million)_a/       114.5      n.a         n.a        114.5
Employment (no.)                         500    2,500       3,000        6,000
a/ In 1988 prices.
h/ Annual.
c/ Direct and indirect convertible currency (CC) exports.
B. Environmental Impact
7.05        Each subproject to be financed under the Project, particularly those
financed under the enterprise credit components for export-oriented investments
and regional employment creation which involve larger investments than the small
business credit component, will be assessed by the participating banks on its
compliance with satisfactory environmental standards in conformity with Hungarian
environmental, and occupational safety and health regulations. The Government
places high priority on the quality of the environment and is carrying out its
laws and regulations in compliance with pollution control guidelines for air
pollution and solid waste set by the Ministry for Environment and Water
Protection. These guidelines have been reviewed by the Bank and are considered
satisfactory. Given the restructuring nature of the Project, involving upgrading
of existing facilities and introduction of new technology, it is expected to have
a positive environmental impact by reducing waste disposal, better utilization



- 52 -
of raw materials and reduction of scrap, and improved occupational health
conditions. For the small business projects, the participating banks would need
to verify that these would not have an edverse environmental impact.  During
negotiations, assurances have been obtained that each subproject would be
undertaken in accordance with the country's safety, health and environmental
standards.
C. Main Risks
7.06        The main risk that may adversely affect the implementation of the
Project and the realization of its benefits concerns the uncertainties perceived
by enterprise and small business managers related to Hungary's future
macroeconomic situation and to the possible further changes in the industrial
policy reform framework, which may affect the incentives for enterprise
restructuring and small business development, and the level of credit demand
under the Project.  In this respect, the recent implementation of the reform
program may not always have given consistent signals to enterprise managers.
Combined with the measures taken by the Government to redress the unsatisfactory
macroeconomic performance, including tight monetary policies, this has often
resulted in a conservative wait-and-see attitude and a lack of needed enterprise
initiatives to improve performance, including investment. This risk is reduced
by the strong support that the new Government and the political leadership give
to the economic reform and by the policy actions agreed by the Covernment with
the IMF, and with the Bank under the ISAL. These include the new Association
Law and unified company profit taxation system, which would provide clear and
consistent signals to the enterprises leading to a stable business environment,
nonduiive to restructuring and entrepreneurship development. The review of the
credit demand and of the pipeline of potential subprojects carried out in
preparation of the Project also reduces the risk for a lower than expected credit
demand under the Project.
7.07        The  second main  risk  concerns  the  capacity  of  the  recently
established participating banks to promote, appraise and supervise enterprise
restructuring and small business investments. The involvement of a relatively
large number of banks in the onlending arrangements of the Project further
increases the complexity of the Project and the difficulty in safeguarding the
quality of approved subprojects. To address this risk, the Bank has reviewed
the policies and procedures of each bank. The Project further includes technical
assistance measures for the banks to strengthen their small business credit
policies and procedures besides technical assistance to the banks under the
second restructuring project for evaluating larger enterprise investments.
Despite the above measures, it is expected that substantial supervision and
monitoring on the part of Bank staff will continue to be required.
7.08        Concerning the employment component, the main risk concerns the
limited institutional capabilities, particularly in county councils, for
promoting and appraising job creating investments in areas which are undergoing
restructuring. This may lead to continued emphasis on large branch-type state
sector investment projects with limited potential for the long term economic
development in the areas, the limited creation of net new jobs through the lack
of additionality of supported investments, and insufficient attention to the



- 53 -
development of soft infrastructure for developing indigenous business
opportunities.   Also in the area of employment and retraining services, the
limited availability of qualified staff to supervise and operate the pilot
programs supported by the Project may become a bottleneck.   The technical
assistance under the Project would help to develop local capabilities in these
areas to address this risk.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01        The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between NBH and the
Hungarian People's Republic, and of Subsidiary Financing Agreements between NBH
and at least three participating banks is proposed as a condition of Bank loan
effectiveness (para 6.03). Further, conditions of disbursement are as follows:
(i)   Prior to disbursement to each participating bank, the signature of
a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between NBH and the bank (para
6.03); and
(ii)  For the small business component,  completion of a satisfactory
operations manual for small business credit before disbursement to
each bank (para 5.18).
8.02        At negotiations, the Government agreed that it will:
(i)   implement  adjustments  to  its  investment promotion program  for
dUIIJUyIJu1LLL  eaLiULL pg  £-.3 J.,
(ii)  implement  actions  to  improve  the  institutional  framework  and
operations of its export credit and insurance system (para 4.14);
(iii) ensure the prompt availability of funds to complete the Project
(para 5.46);
(iv)  carry out procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines (para 6.17)
and follow agreed reporting and auditing procedures (para 6.20).
8.03        At negotiations, NBH agreed that it will:
(i)   monitor continued compliance of participating banks with agreed
criteria for their participation in onlending of the Bank loan (para
4.18);
(ii)  provide necessary funds to the participating banks and enterprises
(including foreign exchange) to meet subloan requirements and
expenditures of eligible subprojects (para 5.46);
(iii) use subloan repayment surplus over Bank loan repayments to refinance
eligible subprojects (para 6.10); and
(iv)  follow agreed procurement, reporting and auditing procedures (paras
6.17 and 6.20).
8.04        At negotiations, NBH also confirmed the following:
(a)   Assurances in the Subsidiary Financing Agreements with the participating
banks regarding:



- 54 -
(i)   maintenance of satisfactory policies,  procedures,  staffing and
financial situation (para 4.18);
(ii) maintenance of interest rates in accordance with agreed principles
(para 4.20);
(iii) lending in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria (paras 5.04,
5.15 and 5.26) and on agreed terms and conditions (para 6.03);
(iv) provision of necessary funds to enterprises to meet subloan
requirements (para 5.46);
(v) appraisal and supervision of subprojects in accordance with
satisfactory policies and procedures (para 6.06); and
(vi) following agreed reporting and auditing procedures (para 6.20).
(b)   Assurances in the Subsidiary Financing Agreements with regard to inclusion
by the participating banks in Subloan Agreements with Project beneficiaries
of following provisions:
(i)   execution of subprojects in compliance with enterprise and subproject
eligibility criteria including satisfactory environmental standards
(paras 5.04, 5.15 and 5.26, and 7.05);
(ii) timely provision by the beneficiaries of their share of subproject
financing (para 5.46); and
(iii) compliance with Bank procurement guidelines (para 6.17) and with
agreed reporting and auditing procedures (para 6.20).
8.05        On the basis  of the staff appraisal and the above mentioned
agreements, the Project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$140 million
for 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. The establishment of a revolving fluid of US$6 umi;iuu (paLa
6.14), and retroactive financing of up to US$7 million (para 6.16) are
recommended under the proposed Loan. The Loan will be made to the National Bank
of Hungary and guaranteed by the Government.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
A.    The Industrial Sector
A-1: Background note on recent trade performance and policy development
of Hungary's industrial sector.
A-2: Law of Economic Associations.
A-3: Company Profit Tax Law.
A-4: Background note on Export Promotion Program.
A-5: Ministerial Order on Conducting Foreign Trade Activity (Minister
of Trade, December 29, 1987).
A-6: Ministerial Order on Qualification System for Staff in Foreign
Trade Occupations (Minister of Trade, December 31, 1987).
A-7: Background papers on the Employment Fund and the Regional
Development Fund.
A-8   Background on Current Status of Labor Adjustment Programs in
Hungary and Proposal for Further Development.
B.    The Small Business Sector
B-1: Detailed tables on recent performance of small business sector.
B-2: Note on policy issues affecting the performance of the small
business sector.
C.    The Financial Sector and Participating Banks
C-1: Hungary - Development and Reform of Financial Markets, dated
October 2, 1987 (Green Cover Report No. 6941-HU).
C-2: Credit policy guidelines published by the National Bank of
Hungary.
C-3: Report on Hungary's official export finance and credit insurance
system, prepared by First Washington Associates, July 1988.
C-4: Background papers on the participating banks.
D.    The Project
D-1: Terms of reference for technical assistance for development of
employment and retraining services.
D-2: Outline of business plan for enterprises sponsoring investments
supported by the Project.
D-3: Outlines of subproject appraisal reports for subloan applications
D-4: Outline of subproject appraisal report for small business credit
applications.
D-5   Restructuring Program for the Hungarian Road Vehicle Industry,
prepared by Boston Consulting Group, dated February 1988.
D-6   Restructuring Program for Tungsrav Enterprise, prepared by
A.D. Little consultants, dated December 1986.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2-1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
GDP of the Industrial Sector by Branch
Branch                                  GDP in Current Prices                           Annual Growth Rate
1980           1985            1986            1987 1/         85/80  86/85  87/86
mn Ft     X    mn Ft      X    mn Ft      X    mn Ft      X X              X      X
Mining                  40106  16.9    59392  17.6    56512  16.4    56600  14.8          8.2   -4.8    0.2
Electric Energy         13447   5.7    20011   5.9    28997   8.4    36800   9.6          8.3   44.9   26.9
Netallurgy              17661   7.5    11261   3.3    11139   3.2    12400   3.2         -8.6   -1.1   11.3
Engineering             64699  27.3   110357  32.7   121251  35.2   128200  33.5         11.3    9.9    5.7
Btdo Materials          10925   4.6    14433   4.3    15459   4.5    17300   4.5          5.7    7.1   11.9
Chemical Industry       30525  12.9    50534  15.0    44173  12.8    56900  14.9         10.6  -12.6   28.8
Light Industry          34902  14.7    48820  14.5    49771  14.4    52800  13.8          6.9    1.9    6.1
Miscellaneous Ind        5142   2.2      5961   1.8      6213   1.8      6400   1.7       3.0    4.2    3.0
Food Processing         19574   8.3    16818   5.0    11113   3.2    15200   4.0         -3.0  -33.9   36.8
.................... ................................................. .............. ................................... ...........   .. .. 
Social.Sector Total   236981 100.0   337587 100.0   344628 100.0   382600 100.0           7.3    2.1   11.0
Private Sector           6372           14268           16332           18500            17.5   14.5   13.3
CPriv.Sector X) 2/        2.6             4.1             4.5             4.6
Branch                        GDP in 1981 Constant Prices                               Annual Growth Rate
1980           1985            1986            1987 1/         85/80  86/85  87/86
mn Ft     X    mn Ft      X    mn Ft      X    mn Ft      X        X       X
uuuuus-se= uuas==# ausmi::u=suua#uauzuuxumuainguuu       ua3==u======u=2=== cz====2==================
Mining                  50919  21.0    42383  15.7    40166  15.0    40100  14.4         -3.6   -5.2   -0.2
Electric Energy         11618   4.8    11339   4.2    14223   5.3    15700   5.6         -0.5   25.4   10.4
Metallurgy              12250   5.1      9446   3.5      9631   3.6      9700   3.5      -5.1    2.0    0.7
Engineering             66104  27.3    86351  31.9    85031  31.7    88700  31.9          5.5   -1.5    4.3
Bldg Naterials          10873   4.5    11797   4.4    11625   4.3    12400   4.5          1.6   -1.5    6.7
Chemical Industry       28615  11.8    38989  14.4    38197  14.2    41100  14.8          6.4   -2.0    7.6
Light Industry          35867  14.8    43278  16.0    40973  15.3    42300  15.2          -.8   -5.3    3.2
Miscellaneous Ind        4982   2.1      5761   2.1      5696   2.1      5600   2.0       ...9   -1.1   -1.7
Food Processing         21163   8.7    21051   7.8    22552   8.4    22700   8.2         -0.1    7.1    0.7
Social.Sector Total   242391 100.0   270395 100.0   268094 100.0   278300 100.0           2.2   -0.9    3.8
Private Sector           6921            9807           10773           10800             7.2    9.9    0.3
(Priv.Sector X) 2/        2.8             3.5             3.9            3.7
1/ Preliminary estimates.
2/ Ratio of private sector to the sum of socialized sector and private sector.
Source: Central Statistics Office and staff calculation.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2-2
H&RY - THIRD IASTRIAL RESTAULING PRI
Gros tAp  of Socialized irdstrial Sector bl Brwdh
Brwch                 CIsitifn of Gross Apft in Orrent Prices    knsL Grwth Rate of Grams otp
in C4stawt Prices
1970   1975    19)   195    196    1W          75/o   80/75  8580   86/s  87/86
N4inirn & Bew        9.0    7.4   10.6   13.0   13.6   13.2           0.5 1/ -0.1   -0.0   -0.1   -0.4
9.5 V/  3.4    2.9    2.1    4.5
Netatlurg           10.7   10.1   10.3    8.2    8.2    8.1           2.1    0.5   -0.0    2.8    0.9
Fermas NetaLlisW    7.6    7.2    6.9    5.6    5.6    5.5         -0.1   -1.1   -1.5    1.8    0.7
Ntferru Metal.    3.1    2.9    3.3    2.6    2.6    2.6            9.6 3/  5.4    4.3    5.4    0.5
Ergcerirg Irdstry   26.5   26.9   22.7   24.3   25.5   26.0           7.4    4.1    3.4    3.7    4.7
Ge"ral Vachiny     6.9    6.4    4.9    5.5    5.7    6.0           4.6    3.2    2.7    2.3    4.3
Traiport Ewpit     6.7    7.5    6.4    6.7    7.1    6.9           6.5    3.6    2.6    4.8    3.0
Electric Vachinry    3.5    3.7    3.3    3.1    3.3    3.4         6.8    2.7    2.5    0.8    3.1
Ebectrcnic EqAipnt   3.4    4.0    3.5    4.2    4.4    4.6        16.5    8.6    7.3    6.2    9.3
Precision Iatrunt   2.0    2.2    2.0    2.2    2.5    2.5         14.7    7.2    6.2    4.8    4.9
MetaL Pmedts       4.0    3.2    2.5    2.3    2.4    2.4          -1.4    0.1   -0.4    2.6    3.4
9ldirn Mterials      3.2    3.1    3.3    3.1    3.2    3.3           4.7    0.5    0.0    2.3    6.9
uvt ;ai inrumry  w.;   14.15  1-.    .u       1r.v    t .4                        2 tL 74
Petroleun Pruicts    2.0    4.0    7.3    7.8    6.1    5.2         2.1   -0.2   -0.7    2.7    4.3
OgA.& Inorg.Oh.   n.a.   n.a.    2.5    2.5    2.4    2.5           13.3    2.8    2.6    1.1    6.5
Fortilizer        n.a.   n.a.    2.5    2.2    2.0    2.1           8.4    0.6    1.6   -4.9    3.8
Swtetic  teriel   n.a.   n.a.    1.9    2.1    2.1    2.3          13.4    1.7    2.2   -2.3    4.4
Rtr Prakts         1.1    1.0    0.8    0.8    0.9    0.9           6.2    2.4    1.4    4.7    6.4
_twuCOLticals      2.2    2.6    2.3    2.8    2.8    2.9          18.5    8.8    8.4    1.6    4.6
Ligt Ird.stwy       17.5   17.3   13.9   12.9   12.9   13.0           3.4    1.3    1.1    1.1    2.9
Wooden Pcts        2.3    2.2    2.2    1.7    1.7    1.8           4.7    1.4    0.6    4.0    7.4
Pp & Pper ProdL    1.3    1.4    1.3    1.4    1.5    1.5           9.1    4.8    2.8    9.7    6.2
Printirg           1.0    1.1    0.9    1.0    1.1    1.1          12.4    5.8    4.5    6.0    6.8
Textile Irdistry   6.6    6.4    4.6    4.3    4.2    4.3           2.4    0.5    0.6   -0.9    2.7
Leather & Fur      3.0    2.9    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.2           1.1    3.1    1.9    6.2   -0.2
Canwnt             2.4    2.2    1.7    1.6    1.5    1.5           0.1   -2.3   -0.6   -8.1   -0.2
Hadicraft          1.0    1.1    0.9    0.7    0.6    0.6           1.0   -3.6   -1.5  -10.4   -3.0
Ower Irdstrie        2.2    2.1    1.4    1.0    1.0    1.0           5.1    0.6    1.2   -2.9    1.2
Food Prosirg ind.   19.9   18.7   18.6   16.8   16.7   16.8           5.6    2.3    2.0    1.3    3.2
Total              10.0  100.0  10.0  100.0  100.0  100.0            5.7    2.3    1.9    1.9    3.8
1/ 14inirg.
2/ Electric EnrW.
3/ ALunirum Netalluy ainy.
Swios: Statistical Yearbook 196 adL for grwth rate of aauqt.
Ca2tral Statistics offie for gross alpat cuqx sition.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2-3
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Gross Fixed Investment of Socialized Industrial Sector by Branch
(Shares in Current Prices)
Branch                     1970    1975    1980    1985    1986    1987
nnuuum8u3u3:  U                 U           U===3==-=3 =UuuuuUuUU astUUU.U....UUU.=
Mining & Fnergy            26.2    24.4    33.9    42.4    40.1    38.8
Metallurgy                 10.5     6.5    12.0       5.7      5.4      4.2
Ferrous Metatlurgy        5.6     4.9      8.6      4.4     4.3      2.9
Nonferrous Metal.         4.9     1.7      3.4      1.3      1.1     1.2
Engineering Industry       18.6    16.1    17.3    12.3    12.9    16.5
General Machinery         4.0     3.5      4.2      1.8      2.0     2.7
Transport Equipmt         6.2     4.0      4.8      3.4     4.7      5.8
Electric Machinery        1.7     2.4      2.3      1.5      1.5     1.2
Electronic Equipmt        3.4     2.6      2.6      2.7      2.6     3.9
Precision Instrumt        1.5     1.5      1.1      1.2      1.0     1.3
Netal Products            1.8     2.0      1.9      1.5      1.0     1.2
Building Materials          7.2     6.3      4.8      4.1      3.2     3.0
Chemical Industry          15.0    20.4    11.3    17.5    17.8    18.8
Petroleum Products        2.8     4.3      2.0      2.2      2.1     2.5
Org.& Inorg.Chem.        n.a.    n.a.      1.0      4.9      3.5     1.7
Fertilizer              n.a.    n.s.       1.6      1.8      1.8     1.5
Synthetic Material       n.a.    n.a.      1.9      1.6      2.3     1.7
Rubber Products           3.6     0.5      0.4      0.5      0.4     1.1
i.^     2.e       .       3          5 n2 
Light Industry             10.6    12.6      7.0      6.2      8.0     6.9
Wooden Products           1.0     1.4      0.8      0.6      0.7     1.5
Pulp & Paper Prod.        3.1     2.8      0.7      2.0     2.1      0.6
Printing                  1.1     1.6      1.4      0.5     0.7      1.1
Textile Industry          3.7     4.7      2.4      2.0     3.0      2.3
Leather & Fur             0.9     1.1      0.7      0.5     0.9      0.8
Garment                   0.4     0.7      0.7      0.4     0.6      0.5
Handicraft                0.3     0.3      0.2      0.3     0.2      0.2
Other Industries            1.3      1.1     1.2      0.5      0.4     0.5
Food Processing Ind.       10.6    12.7    12.4    11.3    12.3    11.4
Total                     100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
.     ... . . . ................... . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . .. .      .
Total Amount  Wmln. ft)  34232   52892   70153   76855   75639   84396
(Annual Growth Rate)              (9.1)   (5.8)   (1.8)  (-1.6)  (11.6)
Source: Central Statistics Office.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2-4
HOARY - THIR) ISTRIAL REST1lWlINH PRECr
............... .................................. .... ........... .
Tracb Stntre of irdstrial Sector, 1W
.................... ...... .....
Brarh              Eqoort  IUnt (en Ft)  Inrt Alxnt (m  Ft)  E*rt Caqxsitia  Inport Cap6itain               IST VatL  1/
. ....................  ............ *. ..... .....  ...... ........... .... ........... ........ ................. .. ......
OEA    M       Total  CEA    CC        Total  OEA   M    Total OEA   CC   Total OEA    M          Total
Netaltulw             7469  224^   291   14993  14911  2950    3.5  9.5  6.6   7.1  5.9  6.4  -33.2  19.9  -0.1
Iren & Steel        3471   1222  15733   7640   8595   16034   1.6  5.2  3.5   3.6  3.4  3.5  -37.5  17.6  -1.6
Altunfm Pod         307   8431  12239   5715    499   6214   1.8  3.6  2.7   2.7  2.0  1.3  -20.0  88.8  32.7
Erewrirg            13002   5(88  1M66   7W97   WE30  16165  60.7 21.4 40.1  37.3 32.9 34.9   24.8  -24.7   5.5
Geirl Vachiray   3049  17189  5=    25177  39772  64949  16.8  7.3  11.8  12.0  15.7  14.0   17.8  -39.6  -9.9
Truport Eqjipt  44460   9Z06  53746  30083   89  39029  20.7  3.9  11.9  14.3  3.5  8.4   19.3   1.8  15.9
Electric Ihinery  4282   6272  1C654   4458   420    8741   2.0  2.7  2.3   2.1   1.7  1.9   -2.0  18.8   9.4
Electrnic Egt   2           8672  29035   9775    175   19050   9.5  3.7  6.5   4.7  3.7  4.1   35.1  -3.4  20.8
Precision Irstrunt 2Z545   4972  27317   6276  1394    M0   10.4  2.1  6.1   3.0  5.5  4.4   56.1  -47.5  14.8
etata Poicts        2930   3947   6476   2531   7045   9576   1.2  1.7  1.4   1.2  2.8  2.1   -0.0  -2B.2  -19.3
dOical Irdstry         2    4985   72667  30879  63130  94009  10.6 21.2  16.1  14.7 24.9 2D.3  -15.0  -11.7  -12.8
Petro Refirhy        810  1360  13860   7257   1099   8355   0.4  5.5  3.1   3.5  0.4  1.8  -79.9  84.5  24.8
Or & Irar Chen    1767   6352   8119   8486  27168  35654   0.8  2.7  1.8   4.0  10.7  7.7  -6.5  -62.1  -62.9
Fertilir            3645   52   9437   3846   7367  11213   1.7  2.5  2.1   1.8  2.9  2.4   -2.7  -12.0  -8.6
Spthetic Htarial   798   8414   9212   2760   9494   12254   0.4  3.6  2.0   1.3  3.7  2.6  -55.1  -6.0  -14.2
Mkbwr Prjdcts       IZ    3634   S         2974   3603   6677   0.8  1.5  1.2   1.4  1.4  1.4  -24.0  -2.4  -11.2
Iwa*ticals         11722  8W7   19759   2314   M80   10B          5.5  3.4  4.4   1.1  3.4  2.4   67.0  -3.3  28.9
Oter Hy Ird 21    3008   61P   11517  5S991   21362  81C53   1.4  3.6  2.6  28.4  8.4  17.5  -90.4  -43.0  -75.1
Hm  y Ira Totat    i1ikj7  i3ii4 cw         i&(r ia  Y ii. i TI 7i.2 55.6 65.4   7.5  72.2 79.1   -5.9  -16.5  -10.9
Ligt Irdmtry         M04  34U67  541W   15950  3M9M   5195   9.7  14.5  12.2   7.6  14.2  11.2   13.3  -2.7   2.8
Wood-bed Prod        829   555    6414   4357   1789   6146   0.4  2.4  1.4   2.1  0.7  1.3   -8.0  51.5   2.1
Pulp & Pqwer Prod    662   1261   192   3427   8015   11442   0.3  0.5  0.4   1.6  3.2  2.5   67.6  -72.8  -71.2
Priritirg            496    930   1426      a 2F    856   1121   0.2  0.4  0.3   0.1  0.3  0.2   30.4   4.1  12.0
Taetile             8379  11064  19M       5106  17795  22O1   3.9  4.7  4.3   2.4  7.0  4.9   24.3  -23.3  -8.2
Leer & Fur          6199   6235   1244    11378   5281   6359   2.9  2.6  2.8   0.5  2.1   1.4   70.4   8.3  32.3
Xnermnt             42D    9819  13123   1685   2236   39Z1   2.0  4.2  2.9   0.8  0.9  0.8   42.8  62.9  54.0
Oher Irdstries         862   1283   2123   1337   2363   37M    0.4  0.5  0.5   0.6  0.9  0.8  -22.7  -29.6  -27.0
Food Procasshir  Ind  21070  308   60279   490   19767  24676   9.8  16.6  13.4   2.3  7.8  5.3   62.2  33.0  41.9
Ird.try Total       20      MS3 Ic   411595 2C595  250817 446752  9%.1  87.2 91.4  98.1  95.1  96.5    0.0  -7.9  -4.1
......... .............. .......... ................. ..... ....... .. ... .... ..... .... ..... ........................
BuM tri  Irnatfy       3      3M8    4290    781   1009   17W0   0.1   1.7  1.0   0.4  0.4  0.4  -44.1  59.6  41.1
AricAtull Prudet  8061  2619M   34Y 7   319B  1139  14557   3.8  11.1  7.6   1.5  4.5  3.1   43.2  39.5  40.4
. ............................ ... ... ... ..... .. .... ... ... .................................... . ............................
Total               2143B7 23C756 450142 209913 253185 46099  100.0 100.0 100.0  100.0 100.0 100.0    1.1  -3.6  -1.4
1/ IST: Intens iaul  Slepe of Trod (Ex-I/Ex(*Im)'100.
2/ Nttly minirg proUts.
Sae: Date of Caitral Statistkcs Office ad staff calculatilo.



- .60 -
ANNEX 2-5
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Analysis of Industrial Non-Ruble Trade Performance
(IST (Int'l Slope of Trade) Value) 1/
Branch                  1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Metallurgy              14.6   13.3   16.5   26.5   23.3   22.1   19.9
Iron & Steel          13.8   17.1   22.6   32.2   27.9   24.3   17.6
Aluminum Prod         91.8   87.2   92.7   94.1   91.3   89.3   88.8
Engineering            -17.8   -9.6   -8.4  -12.8  -15.3  -20.8  -24.7
General Machinery   -28.7  -18.1  -14.1  -29.5  -36.(.  -37.9  -39.6
Transport Equipmt      6.6   17.0    3.8   18.3   21.6    8.2    1.8
Electric Machinery   23.4   14.2   13.4   14.8   13.1   13.7   18.8
Electronic Eqpmt       1.8   13.7   25.5   12.6   11.0    4.3   -3.4
Precision Instrumt  -29.8  -20.8  -31.7  -29.0  -31.1  -41.2  -47.5
Netal Products       -44.9  -44.3  -35.2  -34.4  -40.6  -37.9  -28.2
Chemical Industry      -20.7  -21.6  -14.6   -5.8   -8.3  -16.3  -11.7
Petro Refinery        77.5   61.0   71.1   77.3   53.6   65.1   84.5
Org & Inorg Chem    -60.7  -57.1  -57.5  -53.7  -47.2  -37.1  -62.1
Fertilizer            -1.2    1.6   -5.2    2.3   13.2   -8.4  -12.0
Synthetic Material  -50.9  -48.8  -42.5  -27.9  -29.1  -23.8   -6.0
Rubber Products      -27.0  -20.0  -13.2   -8.0    0.3   -3.7   -2.4
Pharmaceuticals       -2.5   -4.5    2.4    5.9    2.1   -2.7   -3.3
Other Heavy Ind        -22.8   -9.5   -6.9  -11.6  -43.8  -48.7  -43.0
Heavy Ind Total        -14.7  -10.5   -7.1   -4.9  -11.7  -16.5  -16.5
Light Industry         -10.7   -8.2   -2.5   -7.8   -9.1   -9.9   -2.7
Wood-based Prod       36.8   57.5   45.6   19.2   25.8   52.1   51.5
Pulp & Paper Prod   -81.2  -84.9  -59.5  -73.6  -73.6  -77.6  -72.8
Printing               5.3    7.8   12.6   15.0    8.0    2.2    4.1
Textile              -32.6  -27.6  -19.7  -26.5  -25.0  -29.3  -23.3
Leather & Fur         44.9   33.1   33.1   25.4   10.0    3.8    8.3
Garment               59.4   62.6   53.7   55.9   49.2   51.4   59.9
Other Industries        24.5    5.7   -8.1  -21.3  -16.4  -23.1  -29.6
Food Processing Ind    33.6   43.3   32.6   39.3   37.3   29.8   33.0
Industry Total          -5.6   -1.2    0.2    2.1   -4.4   -9.2   -7.9
.....................................................................
Building Industry      -17.1   22.5   46.9   19.9   15.7   13.9   59.6
Agricultural Product   41.9   63.8   62.8   53.0   50.7   37.8   39.5
................................................................    ....
Total                   -0.8    4.8    5.7    6.6    1.3   -4.7   -3.6
1/ IST Value = (Ex - Im)/(Ex + Im)*100
Source:Central Statistics Office (CSO),
Statistical Yearbook of Foreign Trade,
editIons of 1985 & 1986, CSO data for 1987, and
Staff calculation.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2-6
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
________________________________________________
Recent Industriat Non-Ruble Trade Performance
---------------------------------------------
Subsector            Metal   Fng'ring   Chemical       Light    Total 1/
Export 2/
1986                452.4      890.1       789.9      523.5       2670.5
1987            510.6       973.4      923.5       643.2       3066.5
1988/1-4        187.7       224.3      301.9       169.5        887.6
Growth Rate 3!
1986            104.7       105.4        90.5      119.4        102.7
1987            112.8       109.4       116.9      122.9        114.8
1988/1-4        147.9       114.7       128.5      120.4        126.5
Import 2/
1i86            259.5       977.8      1039.9      895.7       3206.3
1987            271.2      1126.2      1202.9      944.4       3583.5
1988/1-4         76.3       247.7      349.1       271.1        949.1
Growth Rate 3/
1986            102.5       116.8       119.2      125.1        118.6
1987            104.5       115.2       115.7      105.4        111.8
1988/1-4         96.7        94.5       90.2        98.6         94.0
IST Value 4/
1986             27.1        -4.7       -13.7      -26.2         -9.1
1987             30.6        -7.3       -13.1      -19.0         -7.8
1988/1-4         42.2        -5.0        -7.3      -23.1         -3.3
~~~,................... ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Output Growth 5/
1986            102.8       103.7      101.4       101.1        101.9
1987            101.6       103.8      106.2       102.9        103.7
1988/1-4        103.0       100.3      101.1       100.7        100.7
Productivity
Growth 6/
---1186             100.5      104.1       101.0      102.8        102.6
1987            106.9       106.5       107.5      107.3        106.4
1988/1-4        109.2       103.3       101.5      105.8        103.0
1/ Includes other industry, not building materials and food industries.
2/ In current prices (million USt).
3/ In current prices (previous period - 100).
4/ ISP: International Slope of Trade a (Ex-Im)/(Ex+Im)*100.
5/ In constant prices (prev.period   100).  Total industry includes
mining, energy, bldg materials, food & other industries. Same for 6/
6/ Production in constant prices per person employed (prev.period-100).
7/ Non-Ruble Trade by Commodity Group in Jon-Apr,1988 (J-A,87 = 100)
Export     Import        (current prices)
Fuels                    109.4       86.7
Intermediate Goods       134.8       99.5
Capital Goods            119.2       86.0
Ind Consumer Goods       123.4       84.1
Food                     116.2       92.1
Total                    124.8       94.4
Source: Ministry of Industry
Central Statistics Office, (CSO)
(Monthly Bulletin of Statistics), 5/15d8, and staff calculation



- 62 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Operations of the Investment Promotion AsRects of the
Regional DeveloRment Fund and the Employment Fund
1.    This Annex provides a summary of the results of the implemenation of the
two Government-supported schemes aimed at promoting job-creating investment in
industrial activities in particular localities, namely the Regional Development
Fund and the Employment Fund. The Regional Development Fund started operations
in January 1987, while the support for job creating investment under the
Employment Fund started in January 1988. The scope of the two schemes is briefly
described in Chapter II of the Staff Appraisal Report.
2.    The total Budget support for both funds is estimated to reach Ft2.0 billion
in 1988, which is expected to increase to Ft3.2-3.9 billion in 1989.  Of the
total, about Ftl.3-1.4 billion in 1988 would be for promotion of employment
creation investments (FtO.5-0.6 billion under the Employment Fund and FtO.8
billion under the Regional Development Fund), which is expected to increase to
Ft2.05-2.45 billion in 1989 (FtO.85-1.05 billion under the Employment Fund and
Ftl.2-1.4 billion under the Regional Fund). The attached Tables 1, 2 and 3 show
details of the direction of Government support provided by county and by sector,
which briefly are described below.
(a) Regional DeveloRment Fund
3.    Table 1 shows that since it was introduced, the Regional Development Fund
has disbursed some Ftl.6 billion in assistance, supporting about Ft7.5 billion
in investment and helping create some 7,500 new jobs. Most of the support has
been used to promote investment in the backward areas, with more thanI half the
funds being applied in Szabolcs County, perhaps the most depressed of the
backward areas within Hungary.   Borsod county, which is likely to be most
affected by industrial restructuring in the short term, has received only Ftll9
million (about US$2.3 million).
4.    Across the seven counties which contain areas eligible for assistance
there has been great variation in the subsidy cost per job and in the proportion
of the overall investment cost which has been financed from the Fund. As regards
support per job, only in one county (Bekes) was the notional FtlOO,O0O support
limit not breached.   Moreover, in three of the seven c-unties the share of
investment cost provided from the Fund exceeded the 30X limit of investment.
5.    There would appear to be several reasons why these limits have been
breached so frequently.   First, some 16X of disbursements have been used to
support infrastucture projects which create very few direct jobs. Second, nearly
45X of funds were used to support projects classified to the agricultural sector
(principally agro-processing investments ar'd non-agricultural projects carried
out by agricultural enterprises), and here again the subsidy cost per job has
been high. Third, and perhaps of most concern, there appears to have been little
regard paid to the limit, especially by county councils.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 2
6.    The emphasis of the Regional Development Fund on projects undertaken by
agricultural enterprises arise principally because of the focus of the Fund on
3zabolcs County.   Within Szabolcs the dominant enterprises are agricultural
cooperatives, many of which are in a poor financial situation as a consequence
of adverse farming conditions. In order to improve financial performance without
laying off workers many of the cooperatives have been diversifying into industry.
Using the Regional Development Fund the county council has been assisting in this
process.
(b) Employment Fund
7.    The emphasis of the Employment Fund has been much more on assisting areas
which are suffering the effects of restructuring, though as can be seen from
Table 2, support has nevertheless been spread across the whole country. The area
which is likely to be hardest hit, Borsod County, has had the largest share of
disbursements from the Employment Fund, though in total this amounts to only just
over US$2 million, or a little over 25% of total assistance from the Fund.
8.    Unlike the Regional Development Fund, in no area has the Emloyment Fund
breached the support cost per job limit.   But in over half of counties the
support per investment limit was breached. This indicates that compared with
the Regional Development Fund, the Employment Fund has been assisting much more
labor intensive activities, or that applicants under the Employment Fund may have
overstated the number of new jobs they are likely to create.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2-7
Table 1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Regional Development Fund - Project Approvals by County A/
Government    Number    Support         Support as %
County        Investment   Support        of Jobs   Per Job       of Investment
-----(Ft million) -----               ('000 Ft)
Baranya           815         180           290        621              22
Bekes             114          46           520         88              40
Borsod            346         119           941        126              34
Somogy          1,247         158           763        207               13
Szabolcs        2,932         828         4,348        190               28
Vas               508         164            65      2,523               32
Zala            1,530          97           593        164                6
Total       7,492       1,592         7,520        212              21
a/ Covering period January 1987-August 1988.
Source: National Planning Office (NPO).



- 65 -
ANNEX 2-7
Table 2
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Employment Fund - Project Approvals by County az
Support as
Number of                   Government   Number   Support        2 of
County      Projects      Investment    Support    of Jobs   Per Job   Investment
-     (Ft million) ------             (000 Ft)
Baranya          4            23           11         160         69          48
Bacs-Kiskun      3            30            9         160         56          30
Bekes            3           229           35         435         80          15
Borsod          14           324          114       1,212         94          35
Csongrad         1             2            1          56         18         n/a
Fejer            3            16            5         142         35          31
Hajdu-Bahir      8           180           56         591         95          31
Heves            3            64           13         131        100          20
Nograd           4            98           27         274        100          27
Pest             1             2            1          20         50         n/a
Somogy           2            16            5          48        100          31
Szabolcs        10           251           95         978         97          38
Szolnok          1             3            1          29         34          33
Veszprem         4            21            8         127         63          38
Zala             1           225           15         160         94           7
Total         62         1,484          396       4,523         88          27
a/ Covering period January-August 1988.
Source: Wage and Labor Office (WLO)



- 66 -
ANNEX 2-7
Table 3
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Regional Develooment Fund and Employment Fund:
Sectoral Distribution of Assistance for Job Creattng Investments A/
Reaional Fund                                   Employment Fund /b
Government  No. of  Irwestment   Support   Government  No. of  Support
Investment    Supoort    Jobs    Per Job        Per Job       Support   Job    Per Job
(m Ft)    (m Ft) (%)             (000 Ft)   (000 Ft)   (m Ft)(%)              (000 Ft)
AgricultureC/        3.366       711 (44.6)   2.195       1.533      324      117 (24.9)   1,260      93
Industry             3,613       622 (39.0)   4,967        727       125      307 (65.5    3,430      90
Construction            19         9 ( 0.6)       34        559      264       26  (5.5)      380     68
Infrastructure         495       215 (15.8)      324     1.528       775        -   -         -        -
Other                    -         -               -          -        -       19 (4.1)       270     70
7,493    1.593 (100.0)  7,S20         996       212     469 (100)    5,340       88
=Y Concerns approvals through August 1988.
bJ Relates to a slightly different time period than Table 2.
c/ Includes agro-processing which acounts for the majority of assisted projects in this sector.
Source:  NPO and -tLO



- 67 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria of Investment
Promotion Program for EmDloyment Creation
1.    Eligibility criteria for support of investment projects under the unified
Government sponsored investment promotion program for employment creation are
set out below.
2.    Eligible Enterprises.   The program supports enterprise investment in
regions eligible for program support in all legal and non-legal (mostly private)
business entities, engaged in manufacturing (excluding certain heavy industry
such as mining and ferrous metallurgy), agro-processing, and business services
(eg., accounting, tax advisory services, marketing, management consultancy,
technical services, etc). As far as small firms (employment below 60 persons)
are concerned, activities in tourism, construction and trade are included.
3.    Eligible Projects.  Projects eligible for assistance include start-up of
new businesses, expansion of existing enterprises in the assisted regions,
relocation of and new plants established by enterprises based elsewhere in
Hungary to the assisted regions (excluding relocations from other assisted
areas). and investments in the assisted regions bv enterprises based outside
Hungary. Projects should create new jobs and be subject to a limit of Ft500,000
of assistance for each job created. Projects should be sound from commercial,
technical and financial points of view and generate financial and economic rates
of return of at least 12Z in real terms over a ten year period.
4.    Additionality. The amount of program support offered to a project will be
the minimum to ensure that it proceeds, but subject to a maximum of 30% of
eligible expenditures.
5.    Maximum Government  (Public Sector)  Assistance.   The maximum project
assistance from all Government (public sector) sources is 50% of eligible
expenditures.
6.    Eligible expenditures. The program provides assistance towards capital
expenditures (excluding taxes) in land and building, plant and machinery (new
and second hand), training and technical assistance related to the use of plant
and machinery purchased as part of the project and to the general operation of
the firm, and permanent working capital increase related to the start of
operations of the project.
7.    Timing. Investments for which assistance is given should be completed
within a three year period from the date at which a program support is provided
and the number of new jobs on which the assistance is based should be created
within a four year period from that date.  Support is disbursed quarterly on
the basis of a forecast of eligible expenditures in the following period. The
level of quaterly payments is adjusted in the light of the actual and forecasted
level of eligible expenditures and creation of new jobs.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 2
8.    Recovery of Support Funds.   Assistance which  is given to eligible
expenditures which in the event are not made is subject to recovery. The same
provision applies to projects which fail to meet the job creation target
specified in the support agreement with the enterprise.  The value of assets
wihich were treated as eligible expenditures in calculating the value of support
funds and which are sold within four years of their purchase date are also
subject to recovery of support funds.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Structure and Performance of the Small Business Sector
A. Introduction
1.    From January 1, 1982, regulations were introduced in Hungary which prcvided
greater opportunites for the establishment of small businesss firms in the
private  sector.    Individual  proprietorships,  referred  to as  artisans  or
craftsmen, were permitted up to six employees and six family workers. General
partnerships of private individuals were permitted to engage in economic
activities with up to 30 employees.   A 'small cooperative' form of limited
liability was introduced with simplified and improved taxation treatment for
units established with more than 15 and less than 100 members. These reforms
were intended to increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. One
of the problems addressed by the reforms was the concentration of industrial
production in a relatively few large units in the public and cooperative sectors,
and the relative absence of small scale units.  The skewed size distribution
structure provided for inadequate competition amongst firms and inadequate
possibilities for sub-contracting and feeder industry relationships.
2.    Although many restrictions remaineu on the activities of small businesses,
January, 1982, marked the starting point for a major opening to the private
sector in Hungary, and the response in terms of the establishment of units and
growth in employment and output has been considerable.   During 1982-1987, a
period of economic restructuring in which the supply response at the aggregate
level has been weak, the data that is available indicates that the small scale
sector has been the dynamic element in the Hungarian economy.
3.    The next major step in the creation of opportunities for small enterprises
is the introduction in January, 1989, of a greatly revised association (company
law) framework and a simplified and unified company profit tax system, the common
principle of both being neutrality in treatment of enterprises of different
ownership sectors (public, cooperative and private) and scale (large and small).
4.    There is no comprehensive survey available of the small business sector
or the small industry sector in Hungary.  The recognition in Hungary of the
growing importance of the sector is relatively recent, and has not been matched
as yet with adjustments in the national and local statistical gathering and
publication efforts.   The information for this Annex is therefore based on
interviews, plant visits and data gathered during February and June, 1987, during
the preappraisal and appraisal missions for the Third Industrial Restructuring
Project.
5.    The small business sector in Hungary discussed in this Annex is composed
of independent ventures with less than 100 employees.   VGMK's and other
specialised contract groups have not been considered as they are in-plant work
organizations rather than independent business ventures.   These groups are
numerous and take many forms: sections within enterprises operating part of ths



- 70 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2
time under in-plant contracts, sections let by lease, contractual catering units,
and shops and catering units let by lease.   In 1986, 25,000 of such groups
employed an estimated 370,000 persons.   Also, an estimated 120 small state
enterprises or subsidiaries are not covered in this discussion as they are not
independent ventures. Agricultural sector businesses are not covered in this
review either.
B. Structure of the Small Business Sector
6.    Small  businesses  have  used  three  organizational  forms  in Hungary:
proprietorship, general partnership and small cooperative. The proprietorships
and partnerships are considered 'non-legal' entities in Hungary, a key
distinction in that sectoral level laws and regulations distinguish between the
rights and obligations of non-legal and legal entities.  Legal entities have
generally been socialist sector ventures (cooperatives and state enterprises),
and thus the impact of the distinction in practice has been to differentially
allocate rights and obligations between the private and socialist sector through
the terminology of non-legal and legal entities.   A restricted version of a
limited liability company (a legal entity) has been available to private
individuals since February, 1988, but it required the participation of an already
established legal entity.   The new Association Law   has revised the legal
frameworks available to small businesses and is expected to result in the start-
up of new enterprises and in encouraging the change of legal form of many
existing ones. The new framework will include a form of limited partnership (a
"deposit company") which, while still a non-legal entity, will permit individuals
to invest, as partners with limited liability, in ventures in which they are not
actively working. It will also provide for limited liability companies to be
formed by private individuals without the participation of a legal entity. It
is anticipated that many existing partnerships and small cooperatives will adopt
the new limited liability company form. The proprietorships, partnerships and
small cooperatives are briefly described below.
(i) Proprietorshi2s
7.    Proprietorships  are unincorporated,  non-legal  entities  in which  the
liability of the owner is unlimited. Registered proprietorships numbered 185,000
at the end of 1987, including 33,000 small stores, restaurants, and other retail
activities. Of the 152,000 non-retail sector proprietorships, 81,000 were full-
time, of which 39% were in industry, 27% in construction, 25% in transport
(mainly  taxis),  and 9% were  in personal  services.   At  the time of the
introduction of the January, 1982, reforms, there were 112,000 non-retail
proprietorships, of which 69,000 were full-time.
8.    In 1987, 92% of the non-retail sector proprietorships in Hungary operated
as single person businesses reporting no employees. Observations and interviews
indicate that there is considerable unreporued family labor although the general
pattern of very small units is clear.   Proprietorships were limited to two
employees up to 1982, at which time the maximum permitted was raised tc six, plus
six family members.  In 1988, the limit was raised to 30 employees.   In 1987,
17,000 small industry proprietorships reported having a total of 30,430



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3
employees. Proprietors are predominantly male. In the non-retail sectors four
of every five are male.
9.    Proprietorships are often operated on a part-time basis by individuals
employed in a 'main' job by large socialist sector enterprises, and by retired
individuals to supplement pensions. 47% of all non-retail proprietorships are
operated on a part-time basis or  , recired individuals.
10.   Proprietorships are frequently established by individuals who initially
engaged in the activity on a part-time business basis. Of the total increase
of 4,434 full-time non-retail sector proprietorships registered during 1987,
45% had previously been operating on a part-time basis, with the balance being
new proprietorships.   The remainder are established principally by former
apprentices and by former proprietors who are registering after a period of non-
registration.
11.   The geographic distribution of non-retail proprietorships reflects wide
variations. Of the total, 21% are located in Budapest. On a per capita basis,
the average number of proprietorships per 10,000 inhabitants for Hungary at the
end of 1987 was 144.  For Budapest, there were 151 per 10,000 while for the
countryside the average was 142.   The counties with the lowest per capita
averages were Borsod (106), Nograd (118), Szabolcs (123), and Hajdu (130). The
counties with the highest were Somogy (188), Zala (164), Heves (164) and Vas
(159).
(ii) Partnerships
12.   The general partnership in Hungary is an unincorporated, non-legal business
unit in which the liability of the partners is unlimited. For 1986, the Central
Statistical Office (CSO) reported 10,920 partnerships, including 115 in the
retail trade sector and 232 in the agriculture sector. Of the non-retail, non-
agriculture sector partnerships, 32% were in industry, 26% in construction, 3%
in transport and 33% in personal services.   In 1982, one year after the
introduction of the reforms, the CSO reported that there were 2,341 partnerships.
13.   Total employment in partnerships in 1986 was reported as 72,338, of which
30% was full-time. Partnerships have been permitted 30 members and an additional
30 employees.   Of the total employment of 70,325 in the non-retail,  non-
agriculture partnerships, 29% was in industry, 33% was in construction, 2% was
in transport and 30% was in personal services.
(iii) Small cooperatives
14.   The small cooperative is a legal entity; it is a form of association which
has provided a limited liability framework and a fairly simple registration
requirement for private individuals who wished to undertake independent for-
profit ventures.   The small cooperatives are the largest units in the small
business sector; until the end of 1987 they were permitted up to 100 members plus
25% additional workers as non-member employees, and since January, 1988, they
have been permitted to have an unlimited number of non-member employees.
15.   For 1987, OKISZ (the representative group for cooperatives) reported 1,963



- 72 -
ANNEX3-
Page 4
small cooperatives in non-agricultural sectors. Of these, 67 were engaged in
the trade sector, which for small cooperatives may have included some import
and export activities. Of the 1,900 small cooperative units in the non-trade
sectors, 43% were in industry, 39% were in construction, 2% were in transport,
and 16% were in personal services. At the end of 1982, there were 145 small
cooperatives. Of the 88,000 employed full-time in 1986 in non-retail and non-
agriculture small cooperatives, the CSO reporter that 46% were in industry, 35%
were in construction, 1% were in transport and 18% were in personal services.
C. Recent performance
(i) Number of Units
16.   The number of units in the small scale sector grew rapidly over the 1984-
1987 period. Proprietorships increased at an annual rate of 5.1%, partnerships
at a rate of 32.1%, and small cooperatives at a rate of 74.7%. Excluding retail
sector firms, proprietorships increased at a 3.6% annual rate and small
cooperatives at a 73.5% rate.
(ii)  Emgloyment
17.   Employment in the non-agriculture small business sector has increased in
recent years in a context of a declining number ot jobs in the economy and a
declIne in the contribution of the agricultural sector to total employment.
Small business employment increased over the 1984-1987 period at an annual rate
of 4.4% in proprietorships and 77.2% in small cooperatives.  Figures are not
available for employment growth in partnerships for the same period; employment
in partnerships did, however, increase at a 25.3% annual rate over 1982-1986.
Excluding retail sector businesses, employment in small cooperatives grew over
the 1984-1987 period at a 76.9% rate.
18.   At the national level, there was a net decline of 109,400 in the number
of active earners (jobs) in the economy reported by the CSO, from 5.01 million
in 1982 to 4.89 million in 1986, for an annual rate of decline of 0.6%. Within
this decline, CSO and representative organizations report an increase of 92,600
full-time jobs in small businesses over the 1984-1987 period, of which
proprietorships created 7,600 full-time jobs, partnerships 12,000 and small
cooperatives 73,000. During the same period large cooperatives were to a limited
extent hiving off units to operate as independent small cooperatives. In some
instances this was a step taken as the alternative to the closing of loss making
units, in others it was to gain the benefit of improved tax treatment. Over the
1985-1987 period for which comparative figures are available, large cooperatives
lost 47,300 jobs while the small cooperatives created 57,800 jobs.  The most
significant losses were by large industrial (lost 29,000 jobs), construction
(lost 10,000) and service (lost 8,500) sector cooperatives. The most significant
gains were by small cooperatives in the industry (gained 22,000 jobs),
construction (gained 23,000) and service (gained 9,000) sectors. An indication
that many of the jobs created in small cooperatives were new jobs rather than
conversion of employment from large cooperatives is that while the number of



- 73 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 5
large cooperatives declined by 142 units over 1985-1987, the number of small
cooperatives increased by 1,193.
19.   Recognizing the significance of the small business sector to employment
generation, especially during the period of major economic restructuring, the
Government, through the Employment Fund operated by the Wage and Labor Office,
offers from July, 1988, interest free, 10 year 'resumption loans' to individuals
who have lost their jobs and who wish to start their own business or become
members or partners in another business.
20.   There are indications, most particularly the higher levels of average
education in private firms, that the increased demand for labor in the small
business sector in Hungary in the post-1982 period has tended to be for skilled
and relatively high paid workers who can produce goods for larger industries and
for export. In this context, the role of the small business sector in Hungary
is quite distinct from that often accorded to the small business sector in many
developing countries, namely, of being a labor absorbing sector characterized
by low paid workers producing low cost goods which meet the basic needs of poor
people.
(iii) OutRut and Productivitv
21.   Output in the small business sector expanded at an annual rate of 49.7%
in current prices in the 1985-1987 peLiud.  Over the same period, total output
for the economy in current prices expanded at 6.4% per year. (By comparison,
the inflation rate (CPI) was 7.0% for 1985, 5.3% for 1986 and 9-9.5% for 1987.)
For the small industry sector, the annual growth rate over 1985-1987 was 28.3%
in current prices, while for the total industry sector the growth rate was 1.5%.
22.   Output per employee in current prices in small cooperatives over the 1985-
1987 period expanded at an annual rate of 17%, compared with an annual increase
in large cooperatives of 12%.  For the small scale industry cooperatives the
annual rate of increase per employee was 22%, compared with 12% for large
industry cooperatives. Output per employee in small cooperatives in the industry
sector in 1987 was Ft650,000 as compared with Ft460,000 per employee in the
large cooperatives.   According to OKISZ, employees in small cooperatives earned
43% more than employees in large cooperatives in 1986, and the pre-tax profits
of small cooperatives averaged 20% of revenue, as compared with 13% for t'Le
larger ones.
23.   The small cooperatives have generally more modern technology, a higher
proportion of trained engineers per worker, a younger and more educated labor
force, and lower indebtedness than the large cooperatives and state enterprises.
Observations and available data also indicate that they have had a greater export
orientation to convertible currency markets.   The Ministry of Trade reported
that in 1987, 40% of the applications for export incentives were made by small
cooperatives.
24.   The most rapidly growing industrial branch for the small cooperatives has
been engineering, which accounts for 59% of small cooperative industrial gross
output, and 40% of total cooperative sector output in the engineering branch.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 6
The cooperativ, sector's share of engineering branch output in the socialist
sector rose from 9.3% in 1986 to 10.9% in 1987.
25.   While much less information is available on the performance of partnerships
than of small cooperatives, observations and interviews indicate that they share
many of the characteristics (a tendency toward a younger, more educated work
force, more modern technology, low indebtedness) of the small cooperatives
although tending to be much smaller in size.   A 1986 survey of 200 small
industrial partnerships reportedly found that all were either direct or indirect
exporters, and that the average age of workers in partnerships was 35 years as
compared with 50 years in proprietorships.
26.   Comprehensive statistic's are not available on the feeder and subcontractual
relationships between the large and small firms in Hungary. On the other hand,
most of the small industry businesses visited during the preappraisal and
appraisal missions were suppliers to large scale firms.   In fact, supplier
relationships with large scale firms appeared often to be a characteristic of
the newer and most dynamic segments (partnerships and small cooperatives) of the
small business sector. A hypothesis would be that from the perspective of the
large scale sector, supplier relationships are increasing rapidly from a very
low base, while from the perspective of the small scale firms supplier
relationships are an important part of total sales.   OKISZ reported that for
large cooperatives, "feeder sales" were 21.4% and 20.4% of total sales for 1986
and 1987, respectively, while for the small cooperatives, "feeder sales" were
43.8% and 48.1% of total sales for 1986 and 1987, respectively.
27.   As an illustration, a supplier network of 300 industrial proprietorships
(craftsmen) plus 23 private foundaries has been operated by a Western firm in
Hungary on a systematic basis for more than 30 years. It is a demonstration of
the advantages of an enterprise based on a network of small business suppliers.
The successful operation of this supplier network may be an indication of certain
comparative advantages of Hungary's proprietorships (quality control, attention
to detail, flexibility and speed of response with one-off and small series
production).
28.   Comparative advantage is increasingly based on the human and organizational
capabilities of firms to adapt technologies and to adjust rapidly to changing
signals and conditions. In this sense, the comparative advantage of Hungary's
small business sector is concentrated in the small cooperatives and partnerships.
Observations indicate that the technology in the small cooperatives in particular
tends to be new and relatively sophisticated, consistent with their recent
establishment and the educated, technical background of their founders and
employees. In comparison, the technology in the proprietorships is in most cases
older and the education levels of the owners and employees tends to be lower.



- 75 -
ANNEX 4-1
rRY-THIRD IOMRIAL RESTNJCILRING PRjC                           Page  1
FININCAL POSITION OF MPCR ChRCIAL BANKS
CMIENSED BWN  SETS                                     (Ft 9ittia)
mWrsisn Ctedit B*rk              lst Bar*                 Caiuwal & Credit Biv*
SETS (Aa of)                  31/12/1986     31/12/I987    31/12/1986     31/12/1987    31/12/1986     31/1/1987
Dqslts trd cash                   6.960         25.137          9.000         24.617         8.280         21.702
hart TeOM LoS                    80.390         71.540         19.800        31.561         76.000         69.086
N & LT LOOM                      80.000         79.979         29.900        208.40         60.000         57.179
Pulwticip1tlawli                  0.000          5.922          0.000         2.327          0.500          2.247
Other Asets                       0.300         23.153          1.100         3.360          1.000         10.605
TMAL ASETS                       167.650         5.731         59.800        O.I08         145.;90        160.8W9
LIABILITIES & EGJITY
...... ......... , .
Short Term Debt                  92.880         89.819         25.400        49.012         97.300         87.123
Lwg Teme  Debt                   71.770         98.298         29.900        26.691         45.500         55.308
Oth  LIebiLitles                  o.0oo          1.500          0.500         1.168          0.999          8.837
Caitat                            3.000          8.93           4.000         4.484          1.981          7.590
Reos                              0.oo0          0.644          0.000         0.6o1          0.000          1.043
Profit                            0.000          6.487          0.000         0.699          0.000          0.9;8
LUBILITIES & EJITY               167.650       235.73          59.800        82.75         145.780        160.89
*DESB  INIOE STATEIS
Irarnm Credit Ba*                &4est 81s                Camrcial & Credit Ber*
INOOE (For er erdirf)      31/12/1986 1/    31/12/117  31/12/1986 1/     31/12/1907  31/12/A16 1/      31/121987
lnterest on Dqits                                0.635                        0.897                        0.000
Interest an Loms                                18.95                         6.21                         13.861
Divid I.rane                                     0.742                        0.437                         0.885
Othe Ireac                                       3.271                        1.875                         2.936
TOTAL INDOE                       0.000         23.473          0.000         9.410          0.000         17.602
Interest cn Deposits                             1.839                        1.061                        0.721
interest on Refire                              11.7C0                        3.326                        9.615
Adnnistratiwe Ebp.                               1.124                        0.704                        0.655
Other Ewes                                       2.323                        1.064                         1.476
TOtAL BVEBS                       0.000         16.986         0.000          6.155          0.000         12.467
--.. ---.    .. ......       ------.. ......              ......    .   . ------............. ...
PROFIT (LOSS)                     0.000          6.487         0.000          3.255          0.000         5.215
SIQNIFICWT RATIOS
ezWfimn Crdit Brk                kst Brk                  Camercia & Credit Bsk
31/12/196     31/12/1987     31/12/1986    31/12/1987     31/12/1986     31/12/19
Oramt Ratioctinus)                0.940          1.076          1.134         1.146          0.866         1.042
Total Dl*/EqjAty(tinus)          53.46          15.739         12.425        10.205         68.6S2         14.626
NLT Det/Eqity(times;             26.667          8.308         7.475          4.058         30.88          6.623
Relxrn cn Portfolio                 0.0a           4.1x          0.0a           5.9%           0.08          4.1%
Retui cn Eqjity                     0.08          67.4X          0.08          63.4X           0.0%         60.4%
Cp. bWAssets                        0.0%           1.1%          0.08           1.3            o.08          0.9%
1/ As the B93*  started cptirs fram Jwawy 1, 1987, thee are nD i.ca. statmnts
for the yew erdiri Deunr 31, 1986.



HUNGARY-THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
FINANCIAI. POSITION OF OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS a/
---------.---------------..-----------.----------.-.---.
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS                                                 (Ft million)
GBVF    Agrobank   Interbank      IDB    Innofinance  Investbank Small Vent. Const. Bank          GBTC   Unicbank
============e==============r= = 2   = 2 2 ====e===2 227                             2fl============= ====  2         2222=====================
ASSETS (As of December 31, 1987)
Deposits and cash          999.4       596.0f       739.8       99.8         51.8        238.0       145.0         51.2    1,614.9       144.7
Short Term Loans         1,093.2     1,489 0      1,595.8    1,134.1        589.4        450.0     3,427.5      1,379.5    2,275.9       836.6
N & LT Loans               611.5     2,917.0      1,266.4      952.1        134.7        769.0        23.3        348.5    1,015.2    3,861.5
Participations/Lease    3,252.0        746.0      1,220.7      255.6        264.3        266.0       151.3         34.6      381.2       447.6
Other Assets               289.3       812.0        737.7        0.2         43.2        116.0         0.3        323.1      447.8       145.8
TOTAL ASSETS             6,245.4     6,560.0      5,560.4    2,441.8      1,083.4      1,839.0     3,747.6      2,636.9    5,735.0    5,436.2
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Demand Deposits            161.0     2,557.0        922.8       178.4       452.8        512.0     2,709.8        655.6    1,692.7       101.9
Term Deposits            3,125.3     1,853.0      1,389.1        0.0          0.0       347.0         50.0        890.9    2,166.4    3,646.0
Other Liabilities           94.8       570.0         95.4      422.2        234.1        255.0       126.6         50.4      569.3       618.8
Capital                  ',200.5     1,157.0      2,715.5    1,772.8        365.8       620.0        759.3        855.3    1,000.0    1,000.0
Reserves                   116.3       122.0         41.8        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0      118.8        16.1
Profit                     547.5       301.0        395.8       68.4         30.7        105.0       101.9        184.7      187.8        53.4
LIABILITIES & EQUITY    6,245.4      6,560.0      5,560.4    2,441.8      1,083.4     1,839.0      3,747.6      2,636.9    5,735.0    5,436.2
CONDENSED IhCOME STATEMENTS
GBVF    Agrobank   Interbank         IDB Innofinance  Investbank SmaLL Vent. Const. Bank          GBTC   Unicbank
=================================2==============================================2=============~2
INCOME (For the year ending December 31, 1987)                                                                                                             -4
Interest Income            212.8       434.0        248.7      270.8         22.3        63.0        309.9        129.6      537.4       232.6
Income on Investment        66.4         0.0         31.7        0.0         78.4         17.0         0.0          0.0        5.8        14.0
Leasing Income             822.2       287.0        366.5        0.0        180.6        148.0         0.0        183.4       34.2        28.9
Other Income               328.1        34.0      2,758.8        0.0         28.4         16.0        21.3          0.0        88.2       78.2
TOTAL INCOME             1,429.5       755.0      3,405.7      270.8        309.7        244.0       331.2        313.0      665.6       353.7
EXPENSES
Interest Paid             285.2        203.0        174.5       78.0         25.7         18.0       101.4         22.7      244.7       167.2
Depreciation               466.4       129.0        190.2       47.9        115.0         27.0        24.3         77.6        88.6       16.1
Fees & Other Exps.          93.2        39.0      2,605.6       22.7         64.3        76.0         83.4         73.8       56.4        16.8
Operating Costs             37.2        83.0         39.6       53.9         74.0         18.0        20.2         28.1        88.2      100.2
TOTAL EXPENSES             882.0       454.0      3,009.9      202.5        279.0        139.0       229.3        202.2       477.9      300.3
...... ------.          . . ......  ......   .   .. ......    ------.    . . ------    ------.   . . ------   ------............... ...... ... ...... .............
PROFIT (LOSS)              547.5       301.0        395.8       68.4         30.7        105.0       101.9        110.8       187.7       53.4
SIGNIFICANT RATIOS
GBVF    Agrobank   Interbank         ID0  Innofinance  Investbank SmaLl Vent. Const. Bank         GBTC   Unicbank              r_z
2====   2============== 2z==2=2=2222=2= ================================================ ==O=2==22   2   
Current Ratio(times)        13.0         0.8          2.5        6.9          1.4          1.3         1.3          2.2         2.3        9.6              >x
Total Debt/Equity(ti         0.7         3.4          1.0         1.2         2.0          2.0         4.5          2.0         2.9        4.6                Z,
MLT Debt/EqultyCtlme         0.3         2.3          0.5        0.5          0.4          1.2         0.0          0.4         0.9        3.8
Return on Portfolio         11.01        5.8X         9.7X       2.9X         3.1X         7.1Z        2.8X         6.3X        5.1X       1.0X
Return on Equity            23.6X       23.51        14.4X       3.91         8.41        16.91       13.4X        13.01       16.81       5.31
Op. Exps/Assets              0.6X         1.3X        0.7X       2.21         6.81         1.01        0.51         1.1S        1.5       1.8X
a/ Excluding for the Post Office Savings Bank which was established on July 1, 1988.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4-2
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Hungary:  Interest Rate Structure
(in Percentage Points Per Year)
1986               1987 .             1988
1/1   6/1         1/1   6/1          1/1   6/1
A. Deposit Rates Copmercial Banks
and Savings Banks:
Enterprise Sector 1/
Demand Deposits          -      -           -     0.5          0.5   0.5
Less than 1 year         4-6   4-6          3-6   4-6          4-8   4-8
1 year                   9.25  9.25         8.25  9.0         13-15 14-16
Household Sector
Demand Deposits          2-5   2-5          2-7   2-7          2-11  2-11
1 year                   4.0   4.0          4.0   5.5          9.0  13.5
2-3 years                6-8   6-8          6-8   7-10        10-12 14-15
Youth Deposits:
-5 years                 6.0   6.0          6.0   8.0          8.0   8.0
-Over 5 years            8.0   8.0          8.0   9.0         12.5  14.5
Savings Notes:
-2-6 years               6-9   6-9          6-9   8-10         8-13 14-16
-Over 6 years            9.0   9.0          9.0   10.5         15.5  16.5
B. Credit Rates:
NBH Refinance Rates
State Loans              11.0 10.0          10.0  10.0         11.5  11.5
Commercial Bank Loans:
-Short Term              10.5  9.5          11.5  11.5         11.5  11.0
-Supplementary             -   -              -     -          12-16 12-16
-Medium Term             11.5  10.5         10.5  10.5         12.0  12.0
Commercial Banks and Savings Banks Lending Rates
Enterprise Sector
State Loans              13.0  12.0         12.0  12.0         13.5  13.5
Commercial bank loans:!/
-Sh(, ^Term              2.0   11.0         13.0  13.0         15-17 16-20
-Medium Term             13.0  12.0         12.0  12.0         14-17 14-17
Household Sector
Housing Loans
-NSB only                3.0   3.0          3.0   3.0           3.0   3.0
-Other Banks             8.0   8.0          8.0   8.0          12.0  12.0
Hire Purchase            5-8   5-8          5-8   5-9          12.0  12.0
Agriculture              6-8   6-8          6-8   8-9          8-9   12.0
Small Business 1         12-13 12-13        11-12 12-13        14-15 14-15
Cons- mtr Loans          8-10  8-10         8-10  8-12         13-15 13-15
l/Interest rates set by the commercial banks for transact4ons with
enterprises, both for deposits and credits, were liberalized with the setting
up of the banks January 1987. Considerable variations exist around the base
rates indicated.



HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PRO=ECT
Pipeline of Potential Export Investment Proiects
Incremental    Incremental
Total Financing    World Bank         Period of        Incremental    Annual C.C.       Employment
Bank/Enterorise              Suborolect             Reauiremerit       Su,loan        Inulementation    Annual Sales   Exnoot Sales        (+ or -
(Ft. mln)      (USS 000)                            (Ft. mln)       (US$  000)
Budapest Bank Ltd.
1. Alkotas Textilip. Szov.  Ladies blouses                             7.0           120.0          1989/90                2.0             36.4            -
2.  BVK                       PVC powder capacity increase           650.0         6,875.0           1989/91              975.0        13,000.0         + 10
3. Csepel Autogyar            Gearbox parts                          510.0         4,410.0           1989/91              790.0        10,980.0   )    + 40
4.  -  do  -                  Engine parts                           512.0         3,700.0           1989/91              235.0         4,273.0   )
S. Ganz Gepgyar               Driving gear                           200.0         1,200.0           1989/90               16.5           300.0            -
6.  PRIMEX Kft                Stitching machines for office paper    6.0              80.0           1989/90              170.0           400.0A/       + 14
7. Veci Kotottarugyar         Sportsware                             230.0         2,500.0           1989/90              230.0         3,600.0        + 100
8.  Veszpremi Sznebanyak
Gepgyar                 Safety equipment                       110.0        2,000.0           1989/90               30.0            545.0            -
Commercial and Credit Bank
9.  FORCON Bekescsaba         Tool holders, software products        123.0         2,000.0          1989/991                n.a.            n.a.           n.a.
Hunoarian Credit Bank
10. Budapesti Vegyimuvek      Special intermediate chemicals       1,000.0        6,000.0           1990/92            1,000.0         18,200.0
i1. Csepel Muvek
Szerszamgepgyar         Software project                       100.0        1,850.0              1989              455.0          S,65u..        - 11S
12. IKARUS                    Intercity bus                        1,350.0        17,000.0          1989/92              700.0         12,900.0            n.a.    I
13. RABA                      Gear manufacturing                   1,583.2       12,800.0           1989/90            1,164.0         14,500.0            -_
14. TAURUS                    Special pipes                          222.0         1,193.0          1989/91              170.0          2,290.0            -        x
15. TAURUS                    Hydraulic pipes                        302.0         3,030.0          1989/91              203.8          2,560.0         + 70
16. TUNGSRAJI                 H4 lamps                               407.4        5,800.0           1989/91              606.0          6,200.0            -
17. TUNGSRAM                  Vacuun Technology Machinery            155.0        2,800.0               1989               n.a.             n.a.           n.a.
18. TUNGSRAM                  Mgt. Systems, QC. CAD. Mgt.
training, License H4 Lamp          S0.0          9,662.0              1989                -                -
19. Ujpesti GyapJuszovogyar  Modermization of spinning                90.0         1,200.0          1989/91               59.0            730.0
Industr.ial Devel ocment Bank
20. EL-CO                     Electrical equipment                    60.0         1,000.0           1989/90               SO.0           900.0
Interbank
21. Hajdosagi Iparmuvek       Modernization heating bodies
manufacture                          80.0         1.100.0           1989/90               55.0          1,000.0
TOTAL                                                      8L20.Q 6        86.320.0
A/ Company convertible currency exports exceed 30%.
Source: Restructuring Program Office tRPO). based on information provided by
the participating banks and enterprises.
%-n



- 79 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Small Business Credit Training
A.    Dackground
1.    This training program is being introduced in anticipation of an increase
in small business lending by commercial banks as a response to the proposed small
business credit component supported under the World Bank financed Third
Industrial Restructuring Project.
B.    Scope of Training Program Consultancy Assignment
2.    The consultants will design, develop course materials, provide external
instructors and manage the implementation of a training program to provide an
introduction to small business lending to loan officers of Hungarian commercial
banks. The newly established International Training Center for Bankers (ITCB)
will provide for the development of local course materials, provJ.de Hungarian
instructors, and be responsible for course coordination and arrangements in
Hungary.
3.    The program will consist of a six day course which will be given three
times. Each course will cover five areas: (i) introduction; (ii) basic analysis
of a small business; (iii) assisting small businesses; (iv) loan administration;
and,  (v) banking  straterzes  for the small business  sector.    The course
methodology will consist of case studies and classroom discussions, with the
participation of resource people as appropriate. The course will be given in
Hungarian. All materials, and most especially the case study materials, are to
be given to the participants sufficiently in advance to allow for classroom
sessions to concentrate on analysis and resolution of the cases. Each course
will have 20 participants.
C.    Content of the Training Program
4.    Part I:  Introduction.  This will provide overviews of the course, of the
environment for small business in Hungary, and of the market for small business
lending in Hungary.
S.    Part II: Basic Analysis of a Small Business.  This part of the course will
review the fundamentals of business financial info,.rmation and business credit
analysis from a small business perspective. This will cover:
- basic credit analysis (a review of the major aspects of small business
financial statements and tax returns, and financial ratio analysis for
small businesses),
- the practice of financial information verification (in the context of
Hungary documenatation and business proactices, and to include the role
of on-site visits in documentation-short situations),
- risk assessment (typical financLal problems of Hungarian small



- 80 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 2
businesses; trend analysis; causes and effects of low liquidity, low
margins,   low  sales,  poor  inventory  control;  financial  impact
calculations; projections of income and expenses, cash flow and working
capital).
6.    Part III:  Assisting Small Businesses. Small firms in Hungary have very
limited experience with commercial bank credit. This part of the course will
provide banking sector officials with an overview of the key areas in which they
can provide assistance to their clients. This will cover:
- legal and regulatory issues for small businesses,
- accounting and taxation issues,
- preparing business plans,
- preparing cash budgets and profit plans,
- understanding differences between profit and cash flow,
- understanding cost, volume, price and profit relationships; and breakeven
analysis,
- assessing seasonal impact, and
- credit needs assessment (forecasting short-term needs and structuring
debt).
7.    Part IV:  Loan Administration.  This part of the course is the critical
linkage between credit analysis (covered in Part II) and banking strategies (Part
V) for the small business sector. It will cover:
- credit application, to it,alude: the procedures, the credit analysis and
appraisal (including the risk assessment and financial projections to
be used for loan administration), and the checking of references (the
course will use the small business loan application and appraisal forms
being developed for the small business credit line under the Project),
- reporting and monitoring systems, frequency and sources,
- portfolio control,
- problem loan administration: typical warning signs; assessing severity;
and problem loan strategies (collateral mangement, documentation and
legal procedures, workout credits, renegotiation, restructuring), and
- preparation of operations manuals for small business credit.
8.    Part V:  Banking Strategies for the Small Business Sector.  This part of
the course is to provide an overview of strategy development for a bank towards
the sector. It will include:
- the bank's business plan,
- market size, structure and growth analysis (to include demand for credit
and other services),
- the role of small business current and fixed deposits, reciprocity
analysis,
- average cost of funds, loan yields and transaction costs for small
business lending,
- analysis of the bank's capabilities, weaknesses and performance,
- analysis of the competition,
- possible strategies and associated risks, and



- 81 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 3
- staff and other resource requirements, including the role of
subcontracting.
D.    Preparatory activities
9.    Initial meetings between the selected consultants and the ITCB will be held
to agree on detailed course content, materials preparation schedules and
identification of instructors. The consultants will organize a technical visit
by the course coordinator to appropriate trainining institutior,s for the purpose
of familiarization with methodologies and approaches.
E.    Reporting reguirements
11.   The consultants will report to the course coordinator, to be selected by
the ITCB from staff nominated by the commercial banks. The coordinator will form
a course committee, to include financial and small business sector
representatives, to advise on course design and content.
12.   The materials to be prepared for the course will be presented in manuals
suitable for subsequent use by the participants and others as reference materials
on lending to the small business sector in Hungary.



- 82 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Engineering Subsector Study
A. Background
1.       The experience of industrially developed countries shows that the
development of the engineering industry cortributes to the increased
efficiencv and competitiveness of the industrial sector as a whole. The
engineering industry supplies capital goods to other sectors of the economy
and provides a base for their efficient operations. Also, the parts and
components provided by this industry are indispensable inputs for production
of downstream products. The incorporation of microelectronics in machines and
process controls is of substantial significance. Manufacturing processes in
the engineering industry are often not capital intensive, nor do they require
enormous infrastructural facilities. The labor intensity of this industry
offers significant employment opportunities compared to other subsectors.
2.       The World Bank has provided financial support for the preparation of
several subsector studies with the objective of (a) assisting the Government
to identify sector-specific issues and develop the necessary industrial policy
measures, and (b) assisting the enterprises and banks concerned to develop
their own strategy for restructuring.  The subsectors investigated include
plastic processirg, rubber products manufacture of agricultural and food-
processing machinery, vacuum engineering industry, manufacture of road
vehicles, and the feeder industry. In the frame of the reform program, the
Government's role is shifting from direct control of enterprise operation to
indirect guidance of the whole economy. The subsector study is being
undertaken with a long-term perspective to analyze the probiems located
between macroeconomic policy framework and enterprise-level restructuring
without encroaching on the initiative of each individual enterprise. At the
same time, a demand to specify the required policy actions will not decrease,
given the need to accelerate the restructuring process and the scarcity of
available resources of the country.
3.      The subsector study will cover the product groups of the engineering
industry as defined by the respective nomenclatures of ISIC and GATT,
inc uzding:
(a) Machines and equipment and engines, power machines, agricultural machinery
and equipment;* metalworking machines; machines for the textile and
leather industries; food industry machines;*
(b) Vehicles and road vehicles;* cargo and passenger transport vessels;
railway rolling stock; air transport facilities;
(c) Electric motors and appliances, electric generators, transformers,
distribution switchgear, interrupters; household electric appliances;
other electric equipment;



- 83 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 2
(d) Telecommunrications and vacuum engineering products, electro-
accoustic equipment and devices; telecommunication equipment; computer
systein components; vacuum engineering equipment and devices;*
microelectronics parts and subassemblies;
(e) Precision engineering, electronic, optical and mechanical instruments;
telemechanics equipment; components of automatic control systems;
(f) Metalware, fittings, connecting parts; tools; devices and fixtures.*
* Note: Product groups marked with an asterisk have been the subject of
detailed studies under previous industrial restructuring programs.
B. Objectives of the Study
4.       The objectives of the study are to determine the general directicns
for the future development of the engineering subsector in Hungary with a view
to increasing its international competitiveness and exports to convertible
currency (CC) markets, and make recommendations for policy changes that need
to be made as well as the infrastructural and institutional systems that would
have to be strengthened for the optimal development of the subsector as a
whole and the strategic thrusts to be provided for the product groups
identified by the study as having maximum potential for development.
C. Expected End Products of the Study
5.       Specifically, the study should lead to the following key sets of
outputs, categorized in two groups:
(a)  Product-Market Strategy
6.       Specific product groaps in which Hungary should develop its
production to meet the future domestic demand and the CC export markets in
which Hungary should seek to compete based on consideration of market trends,
productivity and international competitiveness of the product groups (both
current and potential), profitability of different markets, etc. The relative
attractiveness and feasibility of these market goals should be evaluated and
made specific in order to gain a clear understanding of the subsector's future
prospects. It should therefore critically examine the assumptions on which
the future growth in demand of the respective product grouos is envisioned in
the end-user industries, and in light of any substitution trends and new
technologies that are foreseen for the end-user community. It should examine
the comparative cost structure and any shifts expected to take place as a



- 84 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 3
result of technological improvements in both product design and manufacturing
process. It should be based on an assessment of the quality of engineering
products with regard to raw materials, product and process technologies and
the management processes that exist or are planned for the improvement of
quality. Products and markets in which Hungary no longer enjoys or has the
potential to achieve comparative advantage should be identified with
appropriate remedies.
(b) App-opriate Industry Structure
7.       The study should define an appropriate industry structure within the
product groups, taking into account considerations of international
competitiveness and long-term viability, number of competitors, respective
size and scale, degree of integration, degree of specialization, opportunities
for linkage between enterprises, etc. Some specific issues which may need to
be addressed are!
(i)    the specific measures that are needed for small and medium units in
the engineering subsector to grow. The engineering industries can
provide major opportunities for employment creation on the one hand
and cost reduction through specialization (manufacture of components
and subassemblies for complex large products); structural mechanisms
for technology transfer from larger units to smaller enterprises;
(ii)   given the prevailing situation in the subsector, should additional
new capacity be obtained thrDugh expansion of existing manufacturers
or through new entrants;
(iii)  specific measures to facilitate technology licensing to bridge
technology gaps including the need for joint ventures;
(iv)   measures for improving availability of raw materials and components,
including placement of bulk orders.
(v)    Determination of the resources required by the industry, such as:
(a)  overall investment in the physical and financial restructuring
needs of the industry,
(b)  skill requirements in management, marketing, manufacturing,
skilled workmen, and elaboration of programs for their
development and regulation.
(vi)   List of changes in government policies and regulations needed to
support appropriate changes in the subsector's structure and promote
enterprise initiatives.
(vii)  A subsector program stating major bottlenecks to be removed,



- 85 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 4
(viii) Identifying a preliminary list of potential promising enterprises
whose performance would significantly improve through implementation
of enterprise-specific restructuring action programs, including any
assistance, and incentives by the Government to stimulate these
changes towards an appropriate subsector strategy.
(ix)   Likely impact of recommended strategies and resulting investments on
production, value added, employment, etc., in two time horizons:
1989-1992 and 1992-2000.
D. Analysis to be performed
8.       Several analyses will need to be performed to produce these end
products. This is not a desk study of the existing subsector statistics,
reports and studies, although their review and findings will be necessary and
will provide very valuable background material. The analysis will need to be
based on extensive field visits to a representative sample of enterprises from
each of the product groups as also the infrastructure institutions (R&D,
training, standards, institutions, etc.) which support the engineering
subsector.
9.       The analysis will include:
(a) historical development of the subsector,
(b) current status of the subsector with a breakdown by product groups
with regard to:
-   capacity, capacity utilization and production together with a broad
inventory of key production facilities now existing,
-   an assessment of product, material and production technology of
existing product groups at various stages of production as compared
with that in selected industrialized countries,
-   availability of manpower including skilled workers, mechanics,
technicians, manufacturing, design and research personnel, marketing,
financial and general management personnel, etc.,
-   geographic distribution of plants and capacities in terms of large,
medium and small units,
-   financial strtucture of the industry, source of investment and working
capital finance, constraints on effective operations due to lack of
adequate finance,
-   marketing and distribution arrangements and practices, including
sources of market intelligence, participLtion in industry fairs, etc.,
-   institutional and policy framework including pricing, incentives,
taxation, etc.



- 86 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 5
(c) Hungary's Competitive Position
- manufacturing costs by product groups, present cost structure,
comparative advantage,
- market share in key EC export markets by product groups,
- reputation with buyers,
- response time.
(d) Inputs--Raw Materials and Components
- analysis of the adequacy i. cerms of quantity and quality of existing
and potential availability of raw materials, components and
subassemblies and their prices including that of imports,
- impact of above constraints on control and management of inventories by
large and small enterprises.
(e) Technology Assessment
Analysis of and comparisons with selected industrialized countries, of
the following factors:
- an assessment of the design capabilities for engineering products,
- the prevalence of computer-aided design and manufacturing,
- the extent of research, development and product engineering undertaken
by individual enterprises. An assessment of the institutional
mechanisms necessary for technology transfer,
- the extent and prevalence of consultancy engineering services available
in the country and the need for augmentation.
- the nature and extent of quality control activities and the level of
consciousness within Hungarian engineering industry of the need for
in-house quality assurance systems,
- the availability of industrywide testing and product certification
facilities,
- existence and availability of internationally accepted product standards.
(f) Scale Requirements and choice of appropriate technology needed to
compete effectively in domestic and international markets by product
segment,



- 87 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 6
(g) Operational Effectiveness
Adequacy of prevailing organizational structures, management and
information systems including strategic planning, financial and cost
controls, human resource development, etc., with a view to enhance
operational effectiveness.
(h) Training
The extent and effectiveness of existing institutions for meeting the
needs of training at all levels--management development, technicians and
craftsmen.
-i) Domestic Demand
Analysis of the domestic demand by market segments for different product
groups and projections for future demand clearly outlining the
assumptions in projection of demand and likely impact of technological
innovations.
(j) Export Potential in Convertible Currency Markets
- Trends in key international markets (for the engineering products
groups under study) paiticularly the US, E.E.C., etc., as well as
developing country competitors.
- Demand by product groups, expected growth rates, impact of quotas, if
any.
- Nature of competition in each product group and sources of
competitive advantage. What is the relative importance of price,
quality, delivery time, etc.
- Appropriate geographical scope of competition.
(k) Analysis of strategies followed by Hungarian firms which have
successfully competed:
- in domestic and international markets,
- as high volume producers and as small-scale producers.
(1) Analyzing the effects of policy environment on the subsector's
structure. The relationship between policies and structure should be
studied in order to recommend the policies needed to induce structural
change.



- 88 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 7
(m)  Identifying the specific and appropriate resource requirements of the
subsector--physical, managerial and financial--to respond to the
identified restructuring strategies.
(n) Evaluation of results under different strategies. Economic results
in terms of value added, employment, CC export, etc., evaluated for
the different product.market strategies and industry structures
proposed.
E. Timing
10.      The draft final report is expected to be completed within six months
of start of the assignment. The consulting firm chosen to prepare a sector
study should expect to hold progress review meetings with the client and the
advisory participation of the World Bank personnel at the end of week six of
their efforts, at the end of week 12 and when a draft report has been
completed prior to its final submission at the time of study.



- 89 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Small Business Sector Study
A.    Background
1.    There are no comprehensive studies and few partial studies available on
the small business sector in Hungary. The Central Statistics Office (CSO) has
not altered the scope or methods of its data gathering and publication on the
sector in recent years, and thus is not able to make information available which
adequately captures the structural changes and growth of the sector as it has
become a steadily more impoxtant contributor to the economy. Policy decisions
affecting the sector have necessarily been made on the basis on general
principles and not on extensive quantitative data or analyses.
2.    There is a need (i) for a benchmark study of the structure, constraints
and potential of the small business sector, and (ii) based on recommendations
developed during the stuoy, for an upgrading of the regular gathering and
publication of data on the sector.
B.    Scope of Study
3.    The study will cover the following sectors:  industry and related services,
transport, construction, tourism, and trade. The small scale agriculture sector
will not be covered. The study will: (i) review the recent development of the
sector; (ii) describe and analyse the structure and performance of the sector
since 1982; (iii) identify and analyze factor and product market related policy
sonstraints to the sector's development; (iv) describe and analyse the adequacy
of the institutional, professional and other service sector support available
to the sector; (v) identify and analyse the sector's comparative advantages;
(vi) identify and analyse the potential impact of major trends likely to affect
the sector's development; (vii) identify and prioritize institutional development
activities and policy and regulatory reforms which will increase the
competitiveness and economic contributions of the sector; and (viii) propose
information gathering and publication activities to be carried out on a regular
basis by Hungarian institutions to meet the requirements for adequate monitoring
of the sector's performance and development.
4.    The study will be carried out in four phases to permit opportunites for
adequate feedback, coordinated by the CSO,1 from policy level officials, the
financial sector and che major institutions representing firms in the small
business sector.
5.    Phase One.  The CSO will form a team of experts from the CSO, several
research institutes, Chamber of Economy, organizations of the small business
sector and several financial institutes. The team will:
1/ Participation of CSO to be confirmed before negotiations



- 90 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 2
-     develop a decision on the scale boundaries of the small
business sector to be covered by the study (using employment,
assets, and sales as criteria);
-     develop decisions on the information gathering methods and
instruments to be employed in the study; it is anticipated that
the primary methods will be interviews and the review of
existing data although focused surveys of selected subsectors
including intensive firm level information gathering will be
necessary;
-     search for information, studies and publications available on
the small business sector (including foreign literature);
-     study experience of other countries;
-     develop a detailed plan and timetable for the implementation
of Phases Two, Three and Four; and
-     make a detailed estimate of the costs required to carry out
the study, including the possible involvement of foreign
consultants.           i
6.    Phase Two.  The team will collect and analyse data covering the following
topics:
-     structure and performance since 1982 (by organizational type,
by sector and branch, by county and by scale);
-     factor and other input market policy constraints (to include:
capital and labor markets, import regime, foreign exchange and
control, price controls, licensing and registration, zoning);
-     product/market policy constraints (to include: foreign trade
regime, demand related policies, price controls, profile
restrictions);
-     service sector and other support environment cabilities and
constraints (to include: technology access, training, policy
formulation representation, finance, marketing, insurance);
-     comparative advantdges of the sector (current and potential)
compared with other parts of the business sector; and
-     major trends and potential of the sector.
7.    Phase Three.  The team will prepare a full draft report of the Phase Two
findings and of the preliminary recommendations for policy and institutional
reforms.
8.    Phase Four.  The CSO will organize workshops and seminars to discuss and
review the draft report. The team will prepare the final report taking into
account the feedback received from the discussions in workshops and seminars.
C.    Timing
9.    The first phase of the work is to. be finalized by the end of May 1989.
The final report is to be ready by November 1990.



- 91 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 1
HUNGARY   THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Strengthening of Appraisal Skills
for Job Creating Investment Promotion
A. Background
1.    This Annex sets out terms of reference for the provision of project
appraisal training to Hungarian officials responsible for administering measures
which give financial assist.ance to job-creating projects. The work is being
commissioned by the Hungaridn Government, using funding under a loan from the
World Bank.
2.    Currently, there are two schemes which provide financial assistance to
projects which establish in certain areas of the country:   the Repional
Development Fund and the Employment Fund. The overall aims of these measures
are to promote new economic activity in areas where heavy industry is declining
and in areas which have suffered from an overall shortage of employment
opportunities. If the measures are to succeed in helping develop a new economic
base in assisted areas it is vital that projects which are granted assi.tance
have long-term financial viability and improve the quality as well as the number
of jobs in these areas. It is also important that support is focussed on those
projects which will do most to improve economic conditions in the localities to
which it is applied.
3.    The Hungarian Government is keen to improve the effectiveness of the above
mentioned measures and has decided to make a number of changes to the way they
are administered and to eligibility criteria.   Under revised administrative
arrangements which are now being implemented the applications for assistance for
small projects will be dealt with by county council officials while larger
projects will be assessed by SDI directly.
4.    The decision to commi3sion the work has been taken because of concern that,
as they are currently administered, the above mentioned measures are not
achieving the full benefits in terms of net new jobs created. One of the key
problems is inadequate skills for appraisal of application for support and the
assignment is intended to address this problem. In particular, it is felt that
because of the lack of experience of appraisal staff, many projects were not of
sufficient quality and projects which would have proceeded in any event are
receiving assistance.
B. Objectives of the Assignment
5.    In light of the above comments the objectives of the training assistance
are:
(i)   to improve the overall quality of appraisal skills of staff reviewing
application for Government support for job making investment;



- 92 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 2
(ii) to help establish common appraisal procedures within relevant
organisations; and
(iii) to establish a process for generating case material which will assist
in the appraisal of future applications;
6.    Overall success of the assignment will depend on the extent to which those
providing the training are able to transfer their own knowledge and experience
to Hungarian officials. In this regard it is felt that those individuals
providing the training must have personal experience  of establishing and
operating measures which provide financial assistance on a discretionary basis
to job creating investment projects in industry.
C. Scoge of the Assignment
7.    Training will be provided to five appraisal teams, one in a central agency
plus four county council teams, in total involving some 20-30 individuals. Those
submitting proposals for the assignment are expected to make their own proposals
on what they judge to be the most appropriate approach. In doing so they should
however bear in mind the following guidelines.
8.    First, while there may well be some scope for group training involving
all those responsible for carrying out project appraisal, it is important that
the major part of the training focuses on real cases for which each of the teams
is responsible. It is expected that this on the job training will be carried out
in each of the five teams' respective locations.
9.    Second, effort must be concentrated on those aspects of appraisal in which
expertise is currently least developed. These relate to the viability of projects
and the maximisation of additionality, i.e. the extent to which support is
concentrated on projects which would not have proceeded without assistance and
the degree to which the level of assistance offered in individual cases is
limited to that which is just sufficient to ensure that the project is
implemented.
10.   Third, the work on current applications for support with each of the
appraisal teams is expected to generate case material which will be able to be
used to guide future appraisals.
11.   Fourth, those carrying out the training will be expected to produce an
appraisal manual which clearly sets out appraisal procedures and explains the
use of various appraisal techniques.
D. Timing and Organisation
12.   In designing a programme of work, those tendering for this assignment
should bear in mind the need that those providing the training should familiarise
themselves with the operation of the Government measures. This will involve a



- 93 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 3
range of consultations in Budapest but is urlikely to require more than a few
man-days of effort. Training accommodation will be provided in Budapest and in
each of the respective counties.  The work should be completed within three
months of the start of the assignment. It is envisaged that the assignment will
irvolve four man-months of work.



- 94 -
ANNEX_ 5-6
Page 1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Borsod Regional Plan
A. Background
1.    This Annex sets out terms of reference for the preparation of an economic
development strategy study for Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen (Borsod) County in
north-east Hungary. This study is being commissioned by the National Planning
Office (NPO) of the Hungarian Government and will be the first such study
undertaken in Hungary with the assistance of foreign consultants. Funding for
the foreign exchange component of the project cost will be provided through a
loan from the World Bank. A Steering Committee to deal with the problems in
northern Hungary has been set up in the National Planning Office. The consultants
will report to this committee and are expected to work closely with officials
of Borsod county council.
2.    The decision to commission the study arises from the emergence of
increasing economic problems in Borsod county resulting rom the restructuring
of heavy industry, especially iron and steel making. This is expected to lead
to several thousand labor redundancies within the next few years. At the same
time, like much of north-east Hungary, a large part of Borsod is classified as
a backward area, with locational disadvantages, poor soil conditions and
consequent unproductive agriculture, and poorly developed physical and social
infrastructure.
3.    Borsod is an important county within the Hungarian economy. As well as
being the largest of the provincial counties in terms of population Borsod is
also by far the most significant industrial area outside Budapest, with total
employment in the industrial sector of nearly 140,000. It is a major centre for
the production of bulk chemicals and both its two main towns, Odz and Miskolc,
are the location of large steel making complexes. At the same time Borsod has
a wide range of other industries,
4.    The emergence of these problems in Borsod and in several other areas in
the country has led the Government to introduce several policy initiatives aimed
at assisting individuals displaced from heavy industry to find alternative
employment, and also to stimulate new job-creating investment in these areas.
Most of these measures fall under either the Regional Development Fund, or the
Employment Fund.
5.    As well as establishing these financial assistance measures, the Government
has already started a process of regional planning in north-east Hungary. This
has involved the NPO, the county councils and academic researchers. To date most
effort has been devoted to the collation and analysis of basic regional data and
on problem identification. The present assignment will be expected to build
upon what has been done already in relation to Borsod county and the interim
results of this research will be make available to the successful consultants.



- 95 -
ANNEX 5-6
Page 2
B. Objectives of the Study
6.    The proposed study has following objectives:
(i)   to assess the future employment prospects for Borsod county;
(ii) to formulate an economic development strategy for Borsod county for the
next five to ten years which focuses on the efficient creation of new jobs;
(iii) within the defined strategic framework, to develop proposals for particular
job creation initiatives (which might include both specific projects and
the establishment of soft infrastructure such as small business advisory
services), assess their cost to the different parties involved and estimate
their impact in stimulating new employment;
(iv) to make recommendations as to the appropriate institutional framework for
implementing the overall strategy and specific initiatives and measures,
and prepare a costed plan for implementation of all the recommendations;
(ir) to help develop a local capability within Hungary to carry out economic
development assignments of this nature.
7.    It is stressed that the proposed assignment is not a traditional planning
exercise concerned with forecasting future trends and ensuring that the necessary
public investment in infrastructure is put in place to cope with expected growth.
Rather, it will be concerned with identifying the most cost-effective ways of
stimulating the growth of new employment in the County.
C. ScoDe of Work and Phasing
8.    The assignment should be undertaken in two phases.
9.    Phase 1.    The first phase will involve the preparation of forecasts of
employment trends in each economic sector, assuming that no further policy
measures are introduced, an analysis of the advantages of the area which might
provide   a basis for economic growth together with an assessment of key
weaknesses, and the formulation of an economic development strategy, focussing
on job creation aimed at exploiting the strengths of the area. The results of
Phase 1 should be written up in report form. This must be available within two
and a half months of the agreed start date of the assignment for discussion with
the Steering Committee and local and national government officials and
representatives of other concerned organisations.   The Phase 1 report should
indicate possible initiatives which the consultants consider are worth pursuing
as elements of the proposed strategy.
10.   Phase 2.    The second phase, which should be completed within six months
of the date of commencement of the assignment will involve the formulation of
proposals for specific economic development initiatives and measures that will
form part of the agreed strategy. These initiatives should not be concerned with
the identification of business ideas but rather with creating the conditions in
which enterprises can flourish. For example, they might seek to build on the
strength in a specific industry, or improve conditions for start-up businesses,
or seek to remove constraints on business development by way of improved supply
of finance or industrial and commercial premises. These proposals must be fully



- 96 -
A2NNEX 5- 6
Page 3
costed with.recommendations on pricing where these involve the supply of services
for which charges will be made. The consultants should indicate how far, if at
all, pubLic expenditure on initiatives being proposed will lever in spending by
other parties, most especially business enterprises. Estimates of their likely
impact on employment should also be prepared.
11.   In  addition,  the  consultants  will  be  req,.ired  to  make  detaiied
recommendations on implementation of the proposed strategy and of the specific
initiatives that will form part of it. These must include recommendations on
the appropriate orgarnisations for undertaking various economic development
activities, and the preparation of an action plan for implementing each of the
recommendations. It should be noted that Government funds which might be made
available for economic development are limited. As with Phase 1 the second phase
will need to be written up as a report and this will provide the basis for a
formal presentation to the Steering Committee.
12.   Trainirng.  The economic development strategy  for Borsod will provide a
model for comparable exercises in other areas of Hungary. It is expected that
future work of this type will be undertaken using predominantly local resources.
The extent to which the Borsod study provides training for local organisations
in work of this nature is therefore of importance. In this regard consultants
are encouraged t^ u- . one or more local organisations in a subsidiary role during
the assignment.
13.   Fieldwork.  It is anticipated that there will be a need to consult widely
among concernad organisations within Borsod County itself and to a lesser extent
in Budapest. The consultants will be expected to undertake visits to a wide range
of business enterprises across all sectors, including agriculture and agro-
processing. As a result of the work on regional planning which has been
undertaken to date, it should not be necessary to devote much effort to the
collection and analysis of data. However, in preparing proposals consultants
should appraise themselves of what data is readily availabla, and in their
proposals clearly state what information they will be using and whether they this
is currently available or whether it will be necessary to put effort into
collecting it. Additionally, following submission of the report on the second
phase of the study it will be necessary to make presentations of overall findings
and recommendations to several different groups, apart from the official steering
group. These are likely to comprise both local institutions and national
government Gfficl:iLs.
D. CounterRart Staff and Budget
14.   One or more staff from NPO will be seconded to the assignment on a full-
time basis. It is envisaged that thes- individuals will accompany the staff of
the consultants rather than engage on fieldwork or analysis by themselves. An
office and telephone will be provided within Borsod to provide a base for the
project team. It is envisaged that the assignment will require of the order of
nine man-months of consulting effort.



- 97 -
ANNEX 5-7
Page 1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Project Support for EmRloyment and Retraining Services
1.    The Project will assist the Government to develop and field test expanded
employment services in two selected counties and a pilot &:-training center in
one county.   Project support will primarily consist of targeted technical
assistance (fellowships and consultants) to assist in study, identification, and
testing of expanded and new employment service and retraining models in other
countries.    Fellowship  assistance  will  emphasize  short  site  visits  and
internships to study alternate models.   In addition the Project will provide
funding for limited purchase of materials to support development and testing of
new employment services, and equipment for a pilot retraining center. Detailed
terms of reference for the technical assistance areas are contained in the
Project File.   The following paragraphs provide an overview of the Project
support.
(a)   Strengthening Current Operations of the EmRloyment Fund
2.    General Oneration of the Fund.  The Project would support fellowships and
consultant assistance to assist the WLO (i) study and develop methodologies for
more effective allocation of EF funds, (ii) develop criteria to evaluate the cost
effectiveness of EF benefit programs, (iii) develop an annual EF planning model
for utilization by county councils, and (iv) assist in training county staff in
the use of this planning model.
3.    Extension of Period of Notice/Employment Allowance ienefit/Unemplovment
Benefit.  The Project would support fellowships and consultant assistance to
assist the WLO study and develop alternative methodologie4 for funding the
unemployment benefit scheme and for identifying criteria for payment of
unemployment allowances to individuaL citizens.
4.    Resumption Loan/Benefit.  The Project would support:  (i) fellowships to
provide  opportunities  for  selected  WLO,  small  business  organizational
representatives and other representatives to visit alternative models of
delivering support services to small businesses both prior to initiation of a
business venture and after the venture is operating; and (ii) consultant
assistance to help the WLO initiate a small business support program in a county
in cooperation with smali business organizations.
(b)   Extension of Employment Services
5.    Assessment of Client Aptitudes and Interests.  The Project would support:
(i) fellowships to assist WLO, county, and selected other institutional. staff
(eg. Pedagogical Institute Staff) study and select assessment and work
sample/exploration systems for adaptation to the Hungarian environment; (ii)
consultant assistance to help the WLO/County/selected institution adapt and
field test selected systems in two counties; and (iii) purchase of materials and
equipment for field testing in two counties.



- 98 -
ANNEX 5-7
Page 2
6.    OccuRational and Educational Information.  The Project would support:
(i) fellowships to assist WLO/County/institutional staff to evaluate existing
information sources and systems in other countries; and (ii) consultant
assistance to assist the WLO develop and field test a model occupational
information handbook in two counties.
7.    Job  Search  Techniques.    The  Project would  support  fellowships  and
consultant services to assist the WLO and a County to study, identify,
adapt/develop, and field test job search orientation and training materials in
two counties.
8.    ManRower Forecasting.   The Project would support:  (i) fellowships for
selected NPO/WLO staff to study and participate in internships and short-term
training programs on manpower forecasting techniques; (ii) consultant assistance
to assist NPO/WLO in the field testing of new techniques of manpower forecasting
in two Counties; and (iii) the purchase by NPO/WLO of micro-computer hardware
and software to support field testing of new manpower forecasting techniques.
(c)   Development of SRecialized Techniaues to Provide Support to Enterprises
with Large Scale Layoffs
9.    The Project would support:  (i) fellowships to allow WLO/NPO/county and
selected enterprise and union representatives to review existing programs in
other countries; and (ii) consultant assistance to assist the WLO develop a plan
for a Hungarian rapid response capability, in-plant delivery of employment
services, and national guidelines for preventing layoffs and procedures for best
practice if layoffs occur.
(d) Strengthening of Retraining CaRabilities
10.   DeveloDment  of Retraining  Institution.    The  Project  would provide
assistance for the development of a pilot retraining center in a selected county
affected by industrial restructuring. The objective of this center will be to
support provision of expanded and coordinated employment service and retraining
programs.   The center will provide a location to study and field test the
delivery of employment services/models and will house facilities for provision
of basic adult education, job skill training (both core progrnmns and flexible
space for quick-start enterprise specific short-term training programs),
curriculum development, and delivery of small business assistance services.
11.   The Project would support:  (i) fellowships for WLO and county officials
to study and review existing facilities of this type in operation in other parts
of the world; and (ii) consultant services to assist with conceptualization and
planning  of  the  overall  institution  including:        establishing  flexible
administrative procedures, basic adult education programs, core skill training
programs, customized enterprise-specific training programs, small business
assistance programs, development of a curriculum design capability, and delivery
of integrated employment services. This consultant assistance would include a
long-term contract with an individual who is familiar with the overall design
and implementation of such retraining centers; and (iii) purchase of program



- 99 -
ANNIEX 5-7
Page 3
support equipment, laboratory/workshop equipment, and training hardware and
software.
(e)   Foreign Exchange Requirements
12.   The estimated foreign exchange  requirements  for the above technical
assistance program are US$2.9 million, of which US$0.9 million for consultant
services and fellowships, and US$2.0 million for related equipment and materials.
These foreign exchange requirements, for which details are shown below, would
be supported by the Bank loan.
Estimated Foreign Exchange Cost
Services/     Equipment/
Component                Fellowships   Materials    Total
----(US$  000) -
Employment Fund             80              -           80
Expansion of Services      270             100         370
Special Layoffs             80              -           80
Retraining                 470           1.900       2.370
Total                      900           2,000       2,900



- 1oo -
ANNEX 6-1
HUNGARY - THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
Estimated Schedule
Calendar Year          Fiscal Year                Cumulative       2 of
and Semester           & Semester        Amount    Amount          Total
---(US$ million)---
1989       1         FY89      11          3.0         3.0          3.0
11         FY90       1          4.0         7.0          5.0
1990       1         FY90      11          8.4        15.4         11.0
11         FY91        1        12.6        28.0         20.0
1991       1         FY91      11         19.6        47.6         34.0
11         FY92       1         21.0        68.6         49.0
1992       1         FY92      11         15.4        84.0         60.0
11         FY93        1        22.4       106.4         76.0
1993       1         FY93      11         11.2       117.6         84.0
11         FY94       1          8.4       126.0         90.0
1994       1         FY94      11          7.0       133.0         95.0
11         FY95       1          4.2       137.2         98.0
1995       1         FY95      11          2.8       140.0        100.0



MAP SECTION



HUNGARY                                                               20                                                                  2r
THIRD INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
_Motorwayd                             CZEC HOSLOVAK IA                                              S--\Eat3r rccU. Sw.S. R
-       RS  R, ... )adsBRSJAAJ-Faoolole
KILOMETERS 0   10  20  3D  40  S0  20  7D0  s,0             Notionol capital    NOGRAD    Employment Crtion
MIRS 0 ~~~~    ~ ~   AC   ~~~      0    Megy~~e capitals
MILES O     io    io      30     Ao     so        i) Megyecpol                                                           0,,,,         r                      /+e                       ,t,         Kihda 
Megye (county) boundaries J ' <gMS-!l YY I  
4  S                                                        Elevations in meehrsa
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~81s
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~f4
ANA U G O S L AV I A                                                                        \r                                            YUGOSLAVIEROMANIA
)<_'°   )  A~\Mk    ¢(rcOa,.                                          ,                                     t-S  n  0LAd 
LNA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
_            ar                                                                    a3*                        j                               ,   ,4)  \>~~         ~       ~~~~ TUGR Et RKEY
JANUARY 1B98



