Page  1
March 19, 1993
The President
National Bank of Hungary
H-1850 Budapest
Szabadsag ter 8-9
Republic of Hungary
          Re:  Loan No. 3020 HU
               (Third Industrial Restructuring Project)
               Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
     We refer to the above-referenced Loan Agreement between us,
dated February 24, 1989, as amended, and to your request to
introduce certain additional amendments thereto.  We hereby agree to
amend said Loan Agreement as follows:
1.   Section 1.02, Paragraph (f) is amended to read as follows:
     ""Beneficiary" means an enterprise to which a Participating
     Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan."
     Paragraphs (h), (i), (j) and (k) of Section 1.02 are deleted
     and the subsequent paragraphs are re-numbered (h), (i), (j)
     and (k), respectively.
2.   Section 3.02 (b) is amended to read as follows:
     "(b) take all measures necessary to ensure that, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans
made by the Participating Banks, or any one Participating Bank, to
any one Beneficiary shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000
under Part A (2) of the Project."
3.   The following sections of Schedule 1 are amended as follows:
     (a) Paragraph 1, Category (2):
                                Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated               % of
                                (Expressed in           Expenditures
     Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be financed
(2)  "Goods, technical          122,000,000          100% of foreign expendi-
     licenses, con-                                  tures, and 100% of local
     sultants' services                              expenditures (ex-factory
     training and works under                        cost) for goods, and 75%
     Part A (2) of the                               of local expenditures
     Project                                         for other items procured
                                                     locally, 100% of
                                                     expenditures for con-
                                                     sultants' services and
                                                     training, 40 % of
                                                     expenditures for works
                                                     and 100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     technical licenses."
(b)  Paragraph 3 (c) is deleted.
4.   Schedule 2, Part A.2 is amended as follows:
     "of specific investment projects, for the development,
     upgrading and expansion of the facilities and the
     strengthening of the organization, management and operation
     of industrial, agroprocessing, service, construction and
     employment creating enterprises."
Page  2
5.   Schedule 4, Part C.2 is amended by replacing the present
paragraphs 2 and 3 by new paragraphs 2, 3 and 4:
     "2. Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
     less than $500,000, may be purchased, in accordance with the
     normal commercial practices of the purchaser thereof, at
     reasonable prices, account being taken also of other
     relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
     reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
     facilities and spare parts therefor.
     3.  Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
     less than $1,000,000, may be awarded following local
     competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
     4.  Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
     less than $300,000 may be awarded on the basis of price
     quotations solicited from at least three eligible
     contractors."
6.   The following sections of Schedule 6 are amended as follows:
   (a)  Paragraph A.1:
        "The aggregate amount to be made available by the Borrower
        to a Participating Bank under its respective Subsidiary
        Financing Agreement (Subsidiary Finance) shall be the
        equivalent in the currency of the Guarantor (determined as
        of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan
        Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value
        of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on
        account of the cost of goods, technical licenses, civil
        works, consultants' services and training (goods and
        services) for the Sub-projects to be carried out under Sub-
        loans made by such Participating Bank under Part A (1) and
        (2) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
        the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and
        (2)".
   (c)  Paragraph A.3:
        "The Subsidiary Finance shall have a maturity of not more
        than 10 years, inclusive of a grace period of not more than
        three years".
   (d)  Paragraph B.1 (b) (i):
        "(i) to carry out the same in conformity with sound financial
        standards and practices and in accordance with its lending and
        investment policy statement, referred to in subparagraph (a)
        of this paragraph, and to extent it participates in the
        financing of Sub-loans in an amount of the equivalent of less
        than $300,000, to carry out the same in accordance with the
        policies and procedures set forth in operations manual
        referred to in paragraph B.3 of the Annex to Schedule 6 to
        this Agreement;".
   (e)  In Paragraph B.1 sub-paragraphs (d) (iii) and (f) are
        deleted and enumeration in sub-paragraph (d) is changed
        accordingly.
7.   The following sections of the Annex to Schedule 6 are amended
to read as follows:
   (a)  Paragraph A.2 (b) is amended to read "have a maturity up
        to 10 years including maximum 3 years of grace periods.
   (b)  Paragraph A.3 (d) is amended by adding the words "of
        Sub-loans amounting to the equivalent of $300,000 or
        more" after the word "Beneficiary" in the first line of
        the paragraph and by replacing the reference "Part A (2)
        (a), (b) and (d) of the Project" in the first two lines
Page  3
        of the paragraph by the reference to "Part A (2) of the
        Project".
   (c)  Paragraph B.1 and Paragraph B.2 are amended by adding
        the words "in an amount of the equivalent of $300,000 or
        more" after the words "Sub-loans" in the first lines of
        these paragraphs and by replacing the references to
        "Part A (2) (a), (b) and (d) of the Project" by the
        references to "Part A (2) of the Project".
   (d)  In the Paragraph B.2 (a) the words "including in respect
        of each Beneficiary under Part A (2) (a) of the Project,
        its export marketing activities" in the last three lines
        of the paragraph are deleted.
   (e)  Paragraph B.2 (b) (ii):
        "involving Sub-loans in an amount of the equivalent of
        $300,000 or more, calculated to have a financial rate of
        return and an economic rate of return of at least:  (A) 12 %
        in respect of Sub-projects in areas experiencing adverse
        employment impact; and (B) 14% in respect of all other such
        Sub-loans all as shall be determined and calculated by the
        Participating Banks on the basis of an appraisal carried out
        in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank."
   (f)  Paragraph B.3 (as re-numbered pursuant to the amendment,
        dated April 11, 1991):
        "Sub-loans in an amount equivalent to less than $300,000 shall
        be made in accordance with the Participating Bank's policies
        and procedures set forth in its operations manual satisfactory
        to the Bank".
   (g)  Paragraph B.4 (as re-numbered pursuant to the amendment,
        dated April 11, 1991):
        "Sub-loans for employment creation shall be made to
        enterprises located within areas experiencing adverse
        employment impact selected on the basis of criteria agreed by
        the Borrower and the Bank."
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing,
dating and returning to us the form of confirmation on the enclosed
copy of this letter.
                                   Very truly yours,
                                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              /s/     Jane E. Loos
                                    Acting Director
                                   Country Department II
                               Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED: by NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY on 3/22/93
