Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3020 HU
             (Third Industrial Restructuring Project)
                              between
                    HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated February 24, 1989
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  February   24,   1989,  between  HUNGARIAN
PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  (the  Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor  and  the  National Bank of Hungary
(the Borrower), having been  satisfied  as  to the feasibility and
priority of  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2  to the Loan
Agreement, have requested the Bank  to  assist in the financing of
the Project;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
and forty million dollars ($140,000,000),  on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan  Agreement, but only on condition that
the Guarantor agree to  guarantee  the obligations of the Borrower
in respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as
provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General  Conditions and in the Loan
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as  primary  obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and  punctual  payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges  on,  the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of  the  Loan, and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of  the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions  of  Section  2.01  of  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
specifically undertakes,  whenever  there  is  reasonable cause to
believe that the funds  available  to  the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying
out of the  Project,  to  make  arrangements,  satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                Execution of Part C of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall  carry  out and cause to be
carried out Part C  of  the  Project  with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in  conformity  with  appropriate  practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
     Section 3.02. In order to  assist  in  carrying out Part C of
the Project, the Guarantor  shall employ consultants with qualifi-
cations, experience and  terms  of  reference  satisfactory to the
Bank.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
Part C of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by  the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
     Section  3.04.  The  Guarantor  shall  duly  perform  all its
obligations under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement or any pro-
vision thereof.
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor  shall  carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance
Page  3
and land acquisition, respectively)  in  respect  of Part C of the
Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Part  C  of  the Project of the depart-
ments, agencies and  institutes  of  the Guarantor responsible for
the carrying out thereof.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  five months after the end
               of each such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of said
               accounts for such year  as  so audited; and (B) the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in  such  detail  as  the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. In order  to  assist  in the achievement of the
objectives of the Project, the Guarantor shall carry out programs,
as agreed  with  the  Bank,  to  improve:  (a)  export  credit and
insurance services available  to  exporting enterprises, including
the establishment, by June  30,  1990,  and  operation of an auto-
nomous export credit agency; and  (b) employment creation in areas
experiencing  adverse   employment   impact   due   to  industrial
restructuring.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01.  The  First  Deputy  President  or the Managing
Director of the Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Guarantor  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the General
Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          National Bank of Hungary
          Department for International
            Development Institutions
          H-1850 Budapest
          Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               BANKO                          227267 SMAFU-H,
               Budapest                       225755 BANKO-H or
                                              227028 BANKO-H
     For the Bank:
Page  4
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                     HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                     By /s/ Ferenc Horvath
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
