E-273
VOL.2
CHINA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(P045264)
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND
MONITORING PLAN
Prepared by:
Task Management Team, EASRD
Assisted by:
Project Management Office and China Agricultural University
Beijing, China
July 1999
Revised November 1999






CONTENTS
PAGE
A~. lntr.otuction  ..... . ,,,,,,1
B. Description of Project Activities ....................................,,.,.                                    ..3
C.  Environmental Impact Potential .......................o.                                                        10
D. Environmnental Mitigationa Plan, ............................................................ I ,I1
E   Envirornental Impact Monitoring ..........................,,...,,.,,,,.,.,,.,,,., ..                          , 19
F.  Capacity Development and Training ................................. .,                                         21
G.  Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates                         ..                   .............................. 22
H.  Integration of EMP with Project ...........................,,,......,..,....,....,.. 24
TABLES
1      Breed Improvement Sub-component .............................,.,,.,,,.,.4
2   Phasing of Mineral Block Production Plant ...                                                   .5
3      Cattle Flow  Diagram  from  Raising to Processing.................................,,,,,,,.6
4      Phasing of Household and Feedlot Cattle Production ..................................7,,,,,,,,,....7
5      Pilot Cattle Market Establishment by Province ...............................,,,.,,,.,.,,,,,,,,.8
6      Participating Processing Enterprises ........................,.,,,,.,,,,.9
7      Environmental Mitigation Plan for Forage Balance Monitoring .................................. 12
8   Environmental Mitigation Plan for Household Cattle Productior .                                           13
9   Projected Phasing, Number and Location of Feedlots by Province .                                          13
10    Environmental Mitigation Plan for Feedlot Production ................................................ 16
11    Estimated Budget for Environmental Mitigation for Feedlot Production ..................... 16
12    Environmental Mitigation Plan for Zoonotic Diseas  ControL ..................................... 17
13    Environmental Mitigation Plan for Slaughtering and Processing Enterprises .19
14    Enviromnental Monitoring Measures and Indicators by Project Component ............... 20
15    Environmental Impact Mitigation Training Programs ....................................,.,.,., . 21
16   Environmental M&E Training Implementation Schedule by Province and Budget.  23






Smallbolder Cattle Development Project
Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
A. INTRODUCTION
Project Overview. The project would assist the government's policy of developing its beef cattle
sub-sector in response to emerging market demand for quality beef. The project would put
special emphasis on assisting the smallholder level in the inland provinces of Henan, Hebei,
Anhui and Shanxi. These areas have surplu.s labor and natural resources, but productvity and
quality of cattle are low due to lack of technology and infrastructure. The project aims to increase
production and improve quality and marketability of small-holder produced cattle in order to
enhance farmer incomes and reduce poverty. These objectives would be achieved through: (a)
introduction of improved breeding, feeding and production technologies, (b) development of
commercial infrastructure which would provide the linkages between production and markets: (c)
increasing value-added to cattle production through processing, (d) strengthening animal
husbandry institutions to better provide support services to farmers and (e) upgrading of
regulatory services to include market incentive-driven grading and quality control. The project
would promote the effective use of existing, low-value crop residues and bther natural resources
which are presently going to waste, foster the development of commercial cattle production and
encourage the participation of women in production.
Environmental Assessment Process. Consistent with the provisions of the Bank's Operational
Directive 4.01, Environmental Assessment, the project was assigned to environrmental screening
category B due to the generally small scale nature of the investments to be made under the
project, the widely disbursed nature of the individual production units across the four
participating Provinces, the limited range of environmental impact potentials, the existence of
widely available and well understood mitigation measures for these impacts and the fact that, for
the more substantive of these impacts, there arm existing and effective regulatory procedures in
place within China to deal with them.
In accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Law of China, the project has
been subject of a full Environmental Impact Assessment Report prepared by the Environmental
Impact Assessment Center, China Agriculture Univesity of Beijing which is an A-rated Institute
for the purposes of local regulatory procedures. This report, supplemented by additional work
carried out by an environmental specialist acting of behalf of the Bank, led to development of the
environmental monitoring and management procedures which have been incorporated into the
project design. The Report has been rcviewed and cleared by the provincial Environmental
Protection Bureaus (EPBs) of all four participating Provinces and the State Environmental
Protection Administration (SEPA).
Environmental Overview. The project is intended to have envirozunentally beneficial effects in
several ways. On the production side, positive effects are two-fold: (a) the diversion of otherwise
surplus crop residucs from buming to cattle feeding, and (b) increasing production and recycling
of cattle manure as a valuable source of organic fertilizer. On the processing side, the principal
positive effect would be the production of safer food for wholesale and retail markets due to
improvement in hygiene in the beef processing chain, the quality of the beef produced from the
production system and improved meat inspection procedures which will be promoted through the
project.



2
Nevertheless, the project also has some adverse environmental impact potentials which, to the
extent possible, have been minimized through project design in response to the fldings and
recommendations of the environmental assessments. Residual impact potentials will be addressed
through the environmental monitoring and management procedures summarized in this report.
The main environmental safeguards incorporated into the project design include:
Livestock Breeding and Production Systems
*     the livestock breeding program includes provisions to protect the gene pools of indigenous
cattle breeds to ensure that they arc not lost during future development of the sector;
*    the project will not support range-fed production of cattle so as to avoid any potential to
contribute to over-grazing in the project provinces;
*    the focus of the project will be on small scale, household-based production using crop and
other residues (e.g. corn stalks) which, at present are burnt or otherwise disposed in ways
which contribute to rural area environmental problems in China. The livestock production
system will convert these residucs into meat and livestock waste (manure) which will be
collected and to be retumed to the farners' fields;
*    the entire project design is based on Provincial and county level feed balances which have
indicated that crop residue resources will be sufficient to meet projected demands. These
balances will be kept under constant review as the project progresses to ensure that the rate
of development remains consistent with the availability of residue resources in the field;
*     small-scale household/village feedlots to be supported under the project must be pre-
existing and will be restricted to sizes which are not subject of environmental permitting
procedures in the United States'. In addition, the assessment procedures for determining
the eligibility of households/villages to participate in the program include provision for
preparation of site-specific environmental management plans to provide a basis for
detertnination of the acceptability of proposals This procedure is modeled on and exceeds
procedures recommended by the US Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) for
regulation of feedlots which fall below the regulatory thresholds set down in the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES); and
*     provisions have also been included to reduce the transfer of zoonotic diseases to the
participating fiam families.
Livestock Processing
*     investments in improved livestock processing facilities will be focused on existing
enterprises which are already subject of regulatory control by Chincse Environmental
Protection Bureaus (EPBs);
*     all participating enterprises must be capable of complying with relevant government
environmental regulations after project supported investments and no disbursements will
be authorized without prior presentation of regulatozy clearances by the relevant EPBs;
and
*     current government-prescribed standards for occupational health and safety must be
complied with in all partcipating enterprises.
Overnll Project Mansgement
*     environmental monitoring units and budgets for environmental mitigation are in place at
all project management offices and project enterprises.
There are presently no onvironmental regulations governing development and operation of concentrated
animal feeding operations (CAFOs) in China. In the absence of such rogulatons, the design and regulatory
guidelines applied by the US Environmental Protection Agency through the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) have been followed in development of the project concept.



3
B. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES
The description of project activities is based upon the infomation in Annex 2 in the Project
Appraisal Document, as amended following appraisal in May, 1999.
Project Activities Summary. The Project would support the government's policy of developing
its beef cattle sub-sector in response to the emerging market demand for quality beef. The project
would have a strong commercial marketing orientation through the production, processing and
marketing of quality beef. The project would involve the four project provinces of Henan, Hebei,
Anhui and Shanxi, These provinces have a combined population equivalent to that of the United
States. In total, 17 prefectures, 73 counties and 326 townships would be directly involved, with a
total of 138,488 participating rural households. There are four main components of the project:
L Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement Component (USS2.00 million)
Breed Improvement
Feed Improvement
U1. Cattle Production (USS132.53 million)
Household Cow-Calf Production
Household Cattle Fattening
Feedlot Production
II. Marketing Development Component (USS25.45 million)
Live-Cattle Markets
Beef Market Linkages
-Slaughterhouse Upgrading
-Market Information System
-Beef mrading, Quality Assurance and Meat Inspection
-HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point)
lV. Institutional Strengthening Component (USS19.88 million)
Animal Husbandry Bureau Strengthening
Training
Research and Development
Strengthcning of PMOs
The abovc-listed activities would be implemented as an integrated cattle production system,
ranging from breed improvement through production, processing and supported by infastructure
development, The Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement Component would ensure a supply of
cattle of improved genetic quality for breeding and fattening. Cattle feeding would be heavily
dependent on the utilization of crop residues and oilseed cakes (rsidues from vegetable oil
production), with only small amounts of com concentrate (8% of total feed quantity) for feeding
latepregnant and lactating cows and young calves. Young cattle produced by cow-calf raising
households under the Cattle Production Component would ensure that adequate cadle supplies
were available for project-supported slaughtering, processing and marketing. The Marketing
Linkages Component would support the establishment of commercially-oriented cattle wholesale
markets; assist in the improvement of cattle slaughtering and beef processing plants; and support
food safety, beef grading, quality assurance and meat inspection progams, The Infrastucture
Stengthening Component would support veterinary, extension and AI support services to be
delivered to the project by the Provincial Animal Husbandry Bureaus; provide training, support
research and development; and support project management through the strengthening of the
Project Management Offices.



4
I, BREED AND) FEED IPROVEMENT COMPONENT (USS2.00 MILLION)
Breed Improvement The sub-component would support the provincial-level breeding center in
Henan and Anhui (the other two provinces alrcady have adequate facilities). Details are provided
in Tablc 1.
At the Henan Provincial Cattle Breeding Center, the Project would support the expansion of bull
housing facilities, equipment for frozen semen production and embryo transfer; forage production
facilities and storage; veterinary clinic; power and Dansportationr environmental protection
facilities; and training. A total of 22 breeding bulls will be procured under the project.
At the Anhui Provincial Cattle Brceding Center, the project would support upgrading and
expansion of bull holding facilities; the importation of 20 breeding bulls; and the construction of
a liquid nitrogen plant.
Table 1- Breed Improvement Sub-component
Province        Breed Improvement Program
PY] to mid-PY2!
Haoasn          Expansion of Provincial Cattle Breeding Ccnte through;
--Construction of additional bull holding facilides;
-Addition of scraw semcn ftezing facility
--Establishment of embryo tnsfer unit
--Institution of household breeding cow scleetion programs
-Upgrading of existing indigenous Nanyang cattle herd
--Training and TA
Activity          FYI        2       FY3        FY4        FYS
Holding facilities
Scrnen freezing facility
Embryo transfer unit
Nanyang upgrading program   ___
Household cow sclectioin
Training and TA
Anhui           PYJ to mid=p2:
Expansion of Provincial Cattle Brecding Center through:
-Improvement and cxpansion of bull holding facilities
--Construction of new liquid nitrogen plant
-Importation of 20 brecding bulls
--Institution of household breeding cow selection programs
--Training and TA
Activity         FYI      FY2       FY3        FY4        FYS
Holding facilities
Liquid Nitrogen plant
Bull procurement
Household cow selection
Training and TA
In order to balance indigenous breed improvement with the importation and crossbreeding of
imported cattle breeds, each province is committed to undertake two important activities under
the Project, using its own funds. These include (a) the upgrading of existing indigenous cattle
breed(s) to serve as a gene pool from which to develop suitable crossbreds, and (b) the
development of a crossbreeding strategy which is responsive to producing stock adapted to local
conditions. Ihese objectives are already being pursued wivd non-project funds, but the project
would support training and TA to ensure that indigenous upgading programs would be in line
with the crossbreeding strategies to be undertaken and that an adequate gene pool supply is
ensured.



Feed Improvement
Sbanxi Mineral Block Plant. The Cattle Industry Services Center (CISC) under the Shanxi
Provincial AHB wants to introduce mineral blocks into the cattle production areas, but these are
not currently available within the province. Some salt licks are manufactured at a plant in
Mongolia and are sold in Shanxi, but the Bureau wishes to research various mineral formulations
for beef cattle production. The project would finance the establishment of a small, new pilot-
scale 1.5 t/h block-making facility for testing the application of this feed supplement. The
production facility would comprise a material store, a processing mill, a boiler room, a laboratory,
an office and a toilet. Equipment under the project would be limited to the power, heating and water
supply systems at the plant, the 1.5 th mineral block plant and a weigh bridge. The offices would be
provided with ofiTce equipment, a computer and internal quality control facilities. The project would
provide 2 trucks and 1 man-month of local training At full production, the plant would produce
3,000 tlyear of mineral blocks. Considerable marketing would be required for this new product,
veterinary stations, market offices and feed mills would participate as marketing outlets. Boiler
emissions would have to be controlled to levels mandated by environmental regulation. Total cost
is estimated at $653,000. Table 2 indicates the phasing and production output of the vitamin-
mineral block plant throughout the project's life span.
Table 2 - Phasing of Mineral Block Production Plant
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Total Output at
Full Production
Cattle Vitamin Mineral     O   1,000   2,500   3,000   3,000  3,000 tons of
Block Production                                                cattle mineral
blocks
IL CArILE PRODUCTION COMPONENT (USS132.53 MILLION)
This component is divided into three sub-components: (a) Household Cow-Calf Production -
128,156 households; (b) Household-Based Cattle Fattening - 10,332 households; and (c) Feedlot
Production - about 130 feedlots. A cattle flow diagram for the Project is presented in Table 3.
It should be noted that all of the data presented for the household-based production and fiatteing
systems are best estimates based on the feed balances developed for the purposes of project cost
estimating and economic and financial analysis. The numbers quoted represent the upper bounds
of the development (since there will be insufficient funds to finance a greater level of
development). The actual numbers and the distribution of different sized production units will
depend on the proposals received from those households wishing to participate in the program
and the case-by-case eligibility assessments made by the Project Management Offices based on
the acceptance criteria, including environmental criteria, which have already been agreed upon.



6
Table 3 - Cattle Flow Diagram from Raising to Processing (at Full Production)
Housebold (BR)   Heifer        Bull                       Cattle          Beef
Production        Calves       Calves        Feedlots     Markets         Processors
(a) Cow-calf      Heifer calves  Bull calves   Finished in   To be sold in   Purchased by
production:       weaned       Weaned        130 feedlots  existing       project
per year:    Per year:                  markets        slaughter
128,156                                                   including 9     houses and
Households        142,596       142,596      53,730       pilot project    processors:
raising per year    head       head          head         markets
110,000 head
285,192                                      at 90%       92,596 Heifers  of
male and female                End use:      feedlot      to be sold to    project cattle
calves                         To be         capacity     farmers inside
fattened by               and outside
(ave. 2.1                       iIs or in    End use:     project
head/HHIyr)                    feedlots      Slaughter
and
_ processing
(b) Fattening HHs: Retained                               Finished cattle: Processors to
witin                                   110,000 head   convert
10,332 HHs        project as                              to project     110,000
Fattening per year  Replacement                           processors      project cattle
76,469            heifers:                                32,596 head    into 23,200
male cattle                                               sold to other   tons of
(ave. 7.4         50,000                                  processors      dressed beef
headlHWyr)        head                                    outside the     and beef
to be purchased                                           project         products
from cow-calf hhs                         _ -      __    _
Household Cow-Calf Production Sub-component. The Project is designed to support
approximately 128,158 households sprcad across all four Provinces in cow-calf raising to achieve
Project self sufficiency in young stock supplies. On average, it is expected that a typical
parficipating houschold will raise 2 or 3 calves per ye, depending on local circumstances. The
household incorporate one or two breeding cows although it would also be possible to include
some fattening cattle if so desired. Household participation would be phased to allow for the
gradual procurement and availability of breeding cattle, synchronized to a parallel development
of support services, forage preparation technology and AI services.
In all project provinces, cattle feeding will be based on nutritionally enhanced crop byproducts
and other agricultural wastes which would be ensilaged or ammoniated with urea (to increase
nitrogen content for conversion into protein) in silo pits covered by agricultural plastic. The
.project will finance sub-loans to all participating houscholds for the purchase of breeding or
fattening cattle, cattle production equipment, and urea and plastic for straw ammoniation.
Indicative household and feedlot (see below) phasing is presented in Table 4.
The All China Women's Federation (ACWF) would assist county AHBs attached to local PMOs
in selecting suitable households for participation in the Project. The ACWF would provide
information to AHBs regarding the financial status of households; their prior experience with
livestock or cattle raising; training needs; and availability of savings.



7
Table 4- Phasing of Household Production and Feedlot Cattle Production
Cattle Production     Unit   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4          Total
Component
1. Households        Total    43,933    58,286    24,2I0     1,630     128,156
(Cow-call)
Anhui                  No.     8,220    18,600    10,830     1,630      39,280
Hebei                         16,263    16,263                          32,526
HUnan                          9,450     9,450     9.450                28,350
Shanxi                         10,000    14,000    4,000                28,000
2. Households        Toial     2,460     2,666  3,109        2,153      10,411
(fattening)
Aouia                  No.       106       312      309       103         830
Hebei                          1,389      1.390                          2,779
Henan                            900       900       900                 2,700
Shanxi            _                                2,000     2,000       4,000
3. Feedlou            Total       30        90        10        0         130
Anhui                  No.         4         9        4                     17
200 head                          4         8         4                    16
400 head                                                                    0
500 head                                    I
Hebei                  No         27        23                             S0
100 head                         14        13                              27
300 hcad                          9        10                              19
500 bead                          4                      _                  4
Hienan
100 head              No.                  51                              51
Shanxi                                                                      1
500 head              No.          _        6         6                    12
Household-Based Cattle Fattening Sub-component This sub-component would support about
10,322 households who already have adequate supplies of self-produced cTop by-products to set
up small livestock fattening enterprises to enhance their incomes from cattle fattening. Fattening
models would vary from one to three fattening cycles per year. These households would purchase
yearlings from the cow-calf households and raise them for almost a year for sale to processing
plants or cattle markets. The project would support participating households by financing the first
batch of fattening cattle; the construction of cattle sheds; production equipment, and forage
storage facilities. Feeding regimes would be based on maximizing the utilization of ammoniated
or ensilaged crop residues, fortified with oilseed cake. The projected schedule is also shown in
Table 4.
Small Scale Feedlot Production Sub-component. This sub-component would be instrumental
in providing linkages between cattle production and cattle markets and processors. Small-scale
feedlots would also provide an important market channel for absorbing young stock sold by
households and would sell finished cattle to beef processors. Provision has been included in the
project for support to be given to 130 existing feedlots for expansion and/or upgrading. It is
expected that about one-third of these will be located in Renan and Hebei while the remaining
third will be divided about equally between Anhui and Shanxi. Feedlots would be activated and
phased in accordance with increasing cattle supplies and the availability of suitable candidates for
development. The estimated distribution of feedlot capacities used for project feasibility
assessment, and based on the best assessments of the concemed Animal Husbandry Bureaus, is
shown in Table 4. It is expected that the majority (around 60%) of feedlots will be of around 100
head capacity although provision has been included for proposals to be accepted for units of up to
500 head capacity. Proposals for units greater than this size will not be considered. Feedlots may



8
be owned by individuals, registered colloctives or registered enterprises and their existing
capacity would be expanded in accordance to proximity to and availability of, project cattle.
m. MARKET DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT (USS25.45 MILLION)
This component covers the essential linkages betwcn cattle production, marketing and slaughter
and processing and the marketing of beef, and includcs the project investments necessary to link
producers, cattle markets and commercial meat companies. The component would also ensure
that quality assurance and cattle identification and tracking systems (from breeder to producer to
slaughterhouse to carcass) are in place to satisfy the industry at all levels. The component would
finance the following activities:
(a) Live-Cattle Markets
(b) Beef Market Linkages
(i) Slaughterhouse Upgrading
(ii) Market Information System
(iii) Beef Grading, Quality Assurance and Meat Inspection
(iv) HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point)
Live Csttle Market Development. This sub-component aims to develop a pilot program for live
cattle markets, which would be centers for trade and market information as well as places to
access technical knowledge and veterinary services. The project would assist the AHB bureaus to
upgrade a small number of existing cattle markets in project provinces, two markets in Anhui,
and one in Henan and Hebei and five in Shanxi, The effectiveness of these markets would be
assessed at the midterm review, and subject to the results of the review, up to 10 additional
markets might then be funded, where feasible. Investnents at each livestock market would
include a simple marketing office with a veterinary room and a sale shed, and the construction of
water troughs, rails and feed bins for cattle. A weigh scale with a print-out facility would be
provided for voluntary use by farmers and dealers. Staff from AHBs would be trained to collect
price and market information and track project cattle entering these markets. The establishment of
cattle markets is presented in Table 5.
Table 5 - Pilot Cattle Market Establishment by Province
Province             Hengn       Ainhui       Shanxi          Hebei
Project Year      I  2   3   1  2   3   1   2    3    1   2   3
Pilot markets     1      (3)  2              1            1
Simple uprading                              4      (7)
Numbers in brackets denote poaible fuhire upgrading following MTR in PY3.
Beef Market Linkages Development. This sub-component is designed to ensure that marketing
linkages exist between high-grade cattle production and markets for good quality beef products.
This sub-component would include three parts; cattle slaughtering and processing, market
information system, and beef grading, quality assurances and meat inspection system.
Cattle Slaughtering and Processing. The project will finance the establishment, upgrading and/or
expansion of five slaughterhouscs as demonstation production operations. All The phasing and
start-up production of participating processing enterprises arc outlined in Table 6. Of the five
enterprises to be supported under the project, one will be new, three will be upgrades of existing
operations and one will be an expansion of an existing operation.



9
In accordance with Chinese environmental regulations, all participating enterprises will be
required to secure new operating permits to cover their altered operations. The first stage in the
process involves review and clearance of waste treatment systems designs by the relevant EPB
and project finds will be noi be disbursed until proof of that clearance is presented to the PMO.
Subsequently, the commissioning of the treatment plants requires certification by the EPB and
submission of periodic self-monitoring reports is mandatory.
oA&ket Information System. The provision of cattle prices and trading information to farmers,
processors, feedlots and market managers is of great importance in the successful marketing of
cattle and beef products. The ihfonmation collection would involve principally cattle markets,
feedlots, processors, and local Bureaus of Animal Husbandry and farmers.
Beef Grading, Quality Assurance and Meat Inspection System. Technical assistance will be
provided to develop a meat grading system and providc training to meat processors and
inspectors. Participating beef slaughtering and processing plants will use their own resources to
work towards achieving the RIACCP best practices level. This includes all aspects of enterprise
operations and management, including plant hygiene, production flow, management, quality
monitoring and evaluation, workers training and working practices, and business practices. The
project will finance any equipment necessary to achieve HACCP status and bilateral funds will
finance the necessary training and technical assistance required to reach this level. Each Project-
supported slaughter house or beef processing enterprise has an in-house environmental
monitoring unit. In-house Project-financed technical training in quality control, product handling,
business management and marketing, as well as study tours would enforoc quality control and the
application of best practices in processing and management.
Table 6- Participating Processing Enterprises
I___________                       Ouitput pe Year (Hd)                   Total Investment
Bank-Supported  Present        PYl    PY2        PY3      PY4      PYS  USS million
Processors        _  _  _                       _  _                       _  _  _  _  _  _
Hebei Province
Qimghuangdao             0        0        0    7,500   30,000   30,000  S8.68
Shanxi Province
Lunda Meat Co.       5,000        0    7,500   22,500   30,000   30,000  S4.67 slaughter line,
packing line,
Henan Province                                                            equipment.
Zhoukou Meat Co.    30,000        0    5,000    5,000   20,000   20,000
USS4.31 equipment
Tang He Meat        23,800        0        0    2,500   10,000   10,000
US$1.60 equipment
Anhui Province
Yumei Food Group    53,000        0        0    5,000   20,000   20,000  USS4.51 upgrading,
equipment, effluent
________________   ________                      _______~~~I    plant,
Cumulative         111,900  111,800  124,300  154,300  221,800  221,800  Total S23.77
Demand           I
\1 - Catte ReqZcrmetx dircctly due to Bank support. Annual increases arm begt asimacs.



10
IV. INSTITUnIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT (USS20.33 MILLION)
This component would provide support for:
(a)    Strengthening of the Bureaus of Animal Husbandry (AHB) to efficiently provide new
and better cattle production-related support services to farmers.
(b)    Training to participating households, AHB support services personnel, breeding station
staff, project management staff, feedlot managers, and meat inspectors;
(c)    Research and Development. Each project province would, through its agricultural
university, academy of science or other research institution, support R&D related to cattle
production;
(d)    Strengthen Project Management Offices by upgrading equipment, facilities and
providing technical assistant and training
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT POTENTLAL
The project has both beneficial and adverse environmental impact potentials. Regarding
beneficial impacts; the overall concept of the project was to simultaneously:
(a)    support the goveniment's policy of improving standards in the beef production sector
which, amongst other things, has significant public health benefits due to reductions in
the incidence of un-hygienically processed products passing through to retail outlet2;
(b)    improve farm household incomes through increased beef production productivity; and,
(c)    develop productive uses for existing crop production residues which otherwise go to
waste or, even worse, are burnt, thus contributing to air pollution which is pervasive
throughout China.
Regarding (c), the predominant crop residue throughout the project provinces is corn stalks
which, if ploughod into the fields, provide a low grade source of organic material and nutrients
(mainly phosphorous) or, if burnt, provide a very low grade source of carbon (ash) and potassium
(or a very low grade household fuel which is a major contributor to indoor air pollution). If these
residues are ammoniated and fed to cattle, they are converted into meat, processing by-products
and manure. The manure, when applied to farmers' fields, provides a much-valued source of
organic material and nutrients, principally nitrogen, which can significantly enhance soil structure
and fertility although, if produced in too large a quantity in any particular place, can also be a
source of environmental problems.
2It should be noted that, notwithstanding such benefits, livestock development projects such as this have
also been criticized by some NGOs for: (a) contributing to increased beef consumption in China which may
adversely affect public health due to an increase in the incidence of circulatoy and related diseases which
have been linked to incraue meat consumption; and, (b) diverting grain best used for human consumption
to cattle production. Regarding (a); per capita beef consumption in China is Iet than 3% of that in westem
countries and, in any event, the type of beef produced under the project will be low-fat due to the lack of
grain feeding and rcliance on non-castrated males as store stock for fattening. Regarding (b), project feed
balances indicate that 92% of all feed consumed in the project will be com stalks, oilseed cake or bran;
none of which are used for human consumption. In any event, gram feeding of cattle in China is not
profimble.



21
The main negative impacrpotentials can be summarized as follows:
(a)    The introduction of formign cattle breeds could contribute to adverse biodiversity impacts
due to reduction in the use and maintenance of domestic breeds which are best adapted to
local environmental conditions. The project provinces of Henan and Shanxi, which are
host to indigenous cattle breeds, would continue to undertake, using non-project funds,
indigenous cattle improvement programs, with project support for technical assistance
and training.
(b)    The feed demand generated by cattle raised under the project may exceed the resource
production capacity of local environrments which, in turn, may lead to over-exploitation
of natural resources. Depending on the types of resources concerned, this could lead to
soil erosion or even adverse impacts on biodiversity if the resources being used are under
threat. Carefully updated forage balance calculations by project county would be used as
the basis for incremental cattle production.
(c)    Those activities of the project which involve concentrations of cattle (cattle markets and
small scale feetlots and processing plants) would create sources of concentrated animal
waste production which represent a threat, primarily, to water quality and human health
and, to a much lesser extent, air quality.  Strict guidelines, backed up by local
environmental law enforcement, would ensure that no detrimental effects from waste or
effluent conctrations would negatively affect the environment or human health.
(d)    Concentrations of cattle in household environments present a threat human infection by
zoonotic diseases. Site detcrmination for household cattle raising has takcn this potential
hazard into account, and all cattle will be monitored for two of the most common
zoonotic diseases: TB and brucellosis.
(e)    Those components of the project which involve manufacturing and/or processing
activities (the feed mills and the upgraded slaughterhouses) could lead to production of
waste water and air pollutant emissions with attendant impacts. Compliance with the
inclusion of budgeted mitigation measures is conditional to subloan approval for such
activities and will be monitored closely throughout the project's lifespan.
D. ENVRONMENTAL MITIGATION PLAN
The project design includes a widc variety of measures which are intended to either completely
eliminate or substantially mitigate adverse impact potentials. In the following sections, the
project design, environmental management and environmental monitoring procedures proposed to
deal with each of the above issues is described.
Loss or dilution of indigenous genetic resources. To balance indigenous breed improvenent
with the introduction of foreign genetic lines, the project will provide support to participating
Provinces in two important activities under the project; (i) upgrading cxisting indigenous breeds
to serve as a gene pool from which to develop crossbreeds; and, (ii) developing a crossbreeding
strategy to maximize the adaptation of crossbred stock to local conditions. These activities are
already being undertaken but the project would support training and technical assistance to
strengthen the effectiveness of these programs. Monitoring of progress on these activities will be
undertaken as part of routine project supervision by Bank staff.
Excessive feed demands. This issue has been addressed primarily through project design. Two
strategies have been adopted:



12
(a)    It was decided, following initial environmental assessment, that the project should not
include activities dependent on the use of natural pastres or exploitation of communally
managed land due to the presently over-grazed status of many such areas and
uncertainties as to how to define and enforce stocking rates which would be sustainable
in the long tern. Thus it was determined that the project should rely totally on stall fed
production systems using crop residues which are otherwise unused; and
(b)    The project design is based on County-based forage and grain balances prepared by the
respective Animal Husbandry Bureaus3. These data will be utilized during supervision to
ensure that: (i) existing forage balances will support existing and incremental (non-
project and project) ruminant populations; (ii) no seasonal imbalancs will result due to
project intervention; and, (iii) to plan the addition of participating cattle-raising
households. The forage balance table will be included in the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP). During implementation, each county AHB would prepare, on a 6-month basis to
coincide with supervision missions, updated feed balances. These will be spot-checked
by the mission. The Monitoring and Evaluation Units (MEUs) attached to the local PMOs
will be responsible for this work. The cost in terms of office support and data collection
will be borne from Project counterpart funds assigned for this purpose. The estimated
budgets, agencies responsible and monitoring schedules are set out in Table 7.
Table 7 -Environmental Mltigation Plan (EMP) for Forage Balance Monitoring
Activity    Agency(ies)  Monitoring        Objectives                     Budget
Responsible Schedule
Forage and   Local AHB    rcport at 6 month   -adequate crop byproduct supplies   Y10,000/
Grain       Local MEU    intervals         -correct project household     county/yr.
Balance     Local EPB                      distibution
Monitoring                Superviscd by spot  -seasonal crop byproduct supply    Source:
checks and ex-post  sustamability               counter-
reviews by Bank    -verification of crop byproduct  part finds
misions          utilizaion
Waste production from household calf production. Environmental mitigation mesures related
to household production need to take account of reduction of odors, dust and water pollution.
The most important mitigation factors are twofold: (a) the small production size of up to two
breeding cows with three or four calves per household; and (b) the continuous disposal of all solid
wastes as organic fertilizer of household plots. Disposal of liquid wastes will not be required as
such waste drains into the soil, Cattle sheds will not have hard-top flooring, with the exception of
households ruising ten or more fattening cattle, which will be required to achieve floor
construction standards similar to small-size feedlots.
Notwithstanding the small size of individual production units, applicants for the program will be
required to provide certain pro-forma data relating to environmental aspects as part of the
submissions to participate and these will be reviewed by the environmental staff of the PMO as a
routine activity. The mitigation plan is summarized in Table 8.
3 These balances are the foundations of the analysis which produces the very precise livestock numbers
included in the project schedules developed by the local implementation agencics.



13
Table 8 - Environmental Mitigation Plan for Household Cattle Production
Activity        Agency(ies)       Monitoring            Objectives             Budget
Responsible       Scbedule
1. Apply for   I. Househ         MonitorinA indicators:       Adequate public health  Per
household       PMO, local                              condidons              household
permit,         government.       -Compliance with EPB   - Absence of air, water,   Per year:
2. Review and    2. PMO, EPA     regulations.           ground pollution.
approve catle                    - Adequate manure       Increased cattle      Y500
shed design.                     disposal.              production efficicncy.    (S60)
3. Rcview crop   3. AHB,         - Number of cattle     . Compliance with EPB
byproduct       household         within permitted      and Project standards.    Source:
availability.                    numbcs.
4. Review       4. AHB,          -Location of                                  project
manure diBposal  household, EPA    shed/cattle from human                      budget.
method(s),                       dwellings.
5. Clear        S. PMO, EPA      -Completion or status
houschold for                    of training.
entry into                       -Understanding of
Project.                         regulations.
6. Provide      6. PMO           -Utilization of crop
taining                          byproducts.
7. Establish    7. PMO, EPA
monitoring                        Monitoringfreuency:
indicators.
8. Periodic     S. PMO, EPA,     -continuous;
supervision.    Bank              supervision missions.
9. Instirume    9. Local
compliance and   govem=nt, PMO  R
penalty system
-6-month intervals,
__ __ __ __ _   I________ _   based on  spot checking.  ___
Waste production from small scale feedlots, villages markets and veterinary stations. The
project would support upgrading of about 130 existing small to medium sized feedlots dispersed
across the four project provinces. They will be phased in gradually, based on the gradual increase
in incremental projeCt output of young feeder cattle and in response to actual demands. The
phasing adopted for the purposes of project scheduling is shown in Table 9 which indicates that
about 60% of the feedlots will be very small (100 hcad capacity) while the remainder are
distributed fairly evenly between 200, 300 and 500 head units.
Table 9 - ProJected Phasi g, Number and Location of Feedlots by Province
Feedlots                PY1        PY2        PY3       PY4        PYS           Total
130
Anhui                                                                               17
200 head                     4          8          4                               16
400 head                                                                            0
500 head                                1                                           1
1Hobei                               -                               -               50
100 bead                    14         13                                          27
300 head                     9         10                                           19
500 bead                     4                                                      4
Henan
100 head                               51                                          51
Shanxi
500 head                                6          6                                12



14
In the absence of any domestic regulatory procedures covering such enterprises, the project has
relied on criteria defined by the US Envirommental Protection Agency to determiine maximum
animal feeding operation production unit sizes and otherwise govem the development of
procedures for evaluating these proposals as they emerge.
The 1972 Amendments to the US Clean Water Act cover regulation of emissions feedlot-type
livestock production systems. Within the general class of such "Animal Feeding Operations"
(AFOs), a sub-class, referred to as Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFOs), is
identificd for the purpose of determining the need for permitting procedures. A CAFO is defined
as:
(a)  an AFO with a capacity of more than 1,000 animal units: or,
(b)    an AFO with a capacity of between 301 - 1,000 animal units if it discharges pollutants
into surface waters either directly (i.e. the surface waters which actually pass through the
facility) or indirectly via a constructed conveyance system (e.g. a pipeline installed for
the specific purpose).
In general, only CAFOs are subject to permining requirements under the US National Pollution
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) which prescribes the basic conditions under which
pollutant discharges may be made under the Clean Water Act.
As mentioned, China preserntly has no regulations covering animal feeding operations and, in the
absence of such rcgulations, the project design bas applied the US criteria in the following ways:
(a)   the maximum capacity of AFO permissible under the project will be 500 animal units
(the great majority; around 60%, are expected to be of around 100 unit size although this
will be determined by individual participants); and,
(b)    no AFO will be approved for financing undcr the project if; (i) there is a permanent
stream passing through the site, and/or (ii) there is already or proposed any hydrological
connection between the AFO and any permanent stream.
In addition, the project design criteria go beyond the US criteria insofar as all AFOs to be
financed through the project will be subject of a project-based permitting process incorporating
the supply by applicants of certain prescribed information and the evaluation of these by staff of
the relevant PMO in consultation with the relevant EPB'. These applications also apply for
village markets and veterinary service stations to be supported under the project. Local PMOs
would have ongong responsibility for ensuring that feedlots and market comply with the
tenms of their operating permits.
4Under US procedures, this is an opton for AFOs less than 300 animal units in size or for AFOs of
between 301 and 1,000 animal units in size which are not classified as CAFOs, depending on pardcular
circumstances and at the discreton of the relevant rcglatory authorty.



15
The minimum information to be provided in an application for a feedlot, market or vet station
permit is as followse: Assistance should be requested by permit applicants from local EPB staff
with the procedures leading to permit approval and subsequent compliance. Local EPB staff to
be involved in permit approval and environmental monitoring should receive relevant and
adequate training beforehand.
(a)    A darption of the proposed fedlot, market or veteuiary sation, iluding the
numbers of cattle to be maired throughout the year, the feedmg strategy to be
employed, the source of feed, te sources of cattle and the likely destination of the finish
cattle.
(b)    A site pla  which shoud show the layout aid geeral composition of the feedlot
includig:'
(i)   The general layout of the felot, market or vet staon with respect to adjacent
hwusing, roads and ote physical features of note particularly surface waters;
(ii)  The slope of the site with particular enpbasi on the idenfication of draiage and
the way in which water drains off the site;
(iii) The important construction features of the feedlot, market or vet station, such as the
location of roofed areas and concrete siabs;
(iv)  The location of manre storage asd handling and the manner in which drainag from
this would be coolled; and,
(v)  The location of any other import  fetures of the site such as feed storage areas.
(tc)    Site Investgats indicating what studies have been made in any site to idetify problem.
tha might result from the use of the site. These should include, but not be limited to:
(i)  Soil characteristics with specific emphais on soil texture (the proportion of sand, silt
and clay) and the presence or absence of 6oil horizo  (layers) that might impede the
vertical movement of water;
(ii)  Estimates of the water flow off the site as a result of rinfall and of day-to-day
wateing and site cleaning activities; and,
(iii) Thc location of the chamels through which water would be expected to drain off the
site and the final destination of this water, particularly with respect to watr courses.
(d)    The migation measures that are ircluded in the site design as a result of fte
mvestigations undertaken m (iii) above and also any operaional prociedures that would be
adopted in order to minimize enviroxnmeal problems. Particular attention must be given
to the reduction of potial problems related to odor, flies, noise or dust,
(e)    A maure and lqid waste managenit pln  ihould be provided that identfies:
(i)  the volumes of mamne and liquid wastes that would be produced through the year;
(ii)  fte volumes that would need to be stored between field disposal even;
OHu) the manner in which the manure would be protecd form direct rainfall and in
which drainae from the mare stoage site would be controlled; and,
5 It should be noted ta the PPMO will provide guidelins to each of the PMOs on most of the following so
that it will be fairly ey for applcants to ievt* the necessary deuip crileria and fll out the form.



16
(lv)  the likely areas for the disposal of th Manure and the arrangemenu might be made
with fhrers, or others for he  moval of te manure.
(f)    Public Consuttion. A description of the conrmltadon with adjacem residents and of thir
support or rejecdon of the feedlot, market or vet staion development plans.
Table 10 summarizes the environ=ental mitiption plin for feedlot producdon whe Table 11
shows the budget allocations.
Table 10 - Eavirosemetal Ntlation Plan for Feedlot Production
Activity         Agency(ies)     Monitoring &chedule           Objective.
Responsible
1 Prepare site   1. Feedlot      *Supervie constuction for     - No public health or safety
plan             Applicant       compliance with Permit        bazard
2. Cary out site   2. Feetlot    - Update frage balance for area   - No discharge into ponds,
investigation.   application, with                             lakes,
EPA, PMO and   - Prepare phasing in of catlo  rivers, roads.
local           numbers and production
government.     scbedule                      - No air or noise pollution.
Dept of Health
.  Inspect completed feedlot  - No ground water
3. Develop       3. Applicant    floors, dainage, prximity,    con     on
mitigation       EPA, PMO        oveall building standards
measures                                                       -Sustainable arangunents
- Conduct training course     for waste offiake by
4. Prepare       4. PMO, EPA                                   interested parties.
manure and                       - Carry out 6-monthly
liquid waste                     inspections for. solid and liquid  -no accumulation of liquid
management plan                  waste disposal                or solid wastes.
5. Hae public    5. PMO,         . Provide m1tigaion taining to
cOnsultation     Applicant, local  feedlot management and workers
governmnent     - Cary out periodic spot cbecks.
6. Obain         6. Applicant,
cleaace for      PMO, local
building erMit   government     I
Project budgets for feedlot establishment and management include: (a) construction, (b) training,
and (c) M&E during implementalion. Charges are based on feedlot capacity.



17
Table 11- Estimated Budglet fr   vironmental          to frelot Production
Feedlot Size      Construction U   Triin  X2   M&E                  Total Budget
._ _   Program\Yr. \3  (Yun) \4
100-head            Y4,000              Y0oo0        Y1,000            Y9,800
200.head             Y6,000             Y800         YL,S00           Y14,300
3WShead             Y7,000            Yl,000         Y2,SOO           YIO,S00
400.head             Y,O-O            Y1,000        Y3,000           Y25,OO0
5003 iead           Ylo,000           YJ ,200,       Y4,000           Y3 1,200
UConnciion would  tail' pscked floors, liquid manure traiuge, solid manure arge.
\2 Training: liquid and solid wate handling, public health aspecte, M&E prograrm compliance regulations
\3 M*E program per Year: ofice suppon, report preparhion, data collection. Smff salaries am excluded.
\4 Includes construction, trMining, and M&E for S PYs. 
Zoonotic disease threats. Ruminants can transmit infectious diseases to humans when in
continuous close proximity to them, or when humans ingest or contact infectious discbarges. Two
common zoonotic diseases are pulmonary and intestinal tuberculosis (transmitted from livestock
and poultry) and Brucellosis (transmitted by large and small ruminants). To ensure thatzoonotic
spread will not occur, the following measures will be taken:
*     location of oattle sheds away from human diJellings
*     location of feedlots away from villages
*     adequate waste disposal to prevent direct conta  and contamination of groundwater or
streams and rivers with seepage or surface rnmoff
Budgets and M&E measurcs are incorporated in those doaling diectly with feedloU. The location
of household sheds will be subject to initial evaluation and approval by local PMO upon the
selection of project households, based on the evaluation of their facilities -and available land.
Project cattle dying during implementation will undergo a post mortem examination to diagnose
the cause of death. This is done for insursaoe purposes and future disease prevention. Zoonotic
diseases are reportable diseases so that measures ,can be taken to prevent fartber spread. The
mitigation plan for zoonotic diseases is shown in Tible 12.
Table 12 - Environmental Mitigation Plan for Zoonotic Disease Control
Actvt   Agency(ies)        Monitoring Scheduie    Objectives                 Budget
____ ___ R esponsible__                              _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
Zoonotic  -Local PMO and  Continuoui.               -To prevent occurrnce of Mncluded in
disease    ARB                                      zoonoses                 existing
. control   -Regional        Moniting figgered by        To esure adequate     Vetewinary
veterbay        dh of catle, or dtiaosis  public healh protecton    Services
diagnostic lab    in live cattle or humans.  - To prevem spread of  budgets.
-Local health                             diagnosed zoonoses
authority       Location of household
cattle sheds and feedl&s to
be approved as part of
I Ft into the project     _.
Wastes from mmnufaturingprocslng activities. Of the five enterprises to be supported under
the project one will be new, three will be upgrades of existing operations and one will be an
expansion of an existing operation. The schedule of pollutdon control investments required for
these enterprises is as follows:



18
*    Heboi Huaxing - new pollution control facilities to be installed;
*    Henan Tanghe (upgrade) - existing pollution control facilities to be upgraded as part of
general upgrade of the whole operation;
*     Henan Zhoukou (upgrade) - project will provide upgraded meat packing facilities which
will not change pollutant discharges. Existing treatnent plant is sufficient to handle
wastes;
*     Shanxi Lunda Meat Co. (expansion) - the existing treatment plant will be upgraded to
handle additional waste water flows; and
*     Anhui Yumei Meat Co. (upgrade) - a new waste trcatnent system will be installed to
handle wastes from both current and increased production.
Establishment/expansion and operation of slaughterhouses are regulated under Chinese
environmental regulations and all participating enterprises will be required to secure new
operating permits to cover teair altered operations. The first stage in the process involves
preparation of enviromnental impact assessments covering the proposed development which,
subject to approval of the project concept, is followed by review and clearance of waste treatment
systems designs by the relevant EPB. Project funds will not be disbursed until proof of that
clearance is presented to the PMO. Subsequently, the commissioning of the treatment plants
requires certification by the EPB and submission of periodic self-monitoring reports is
mandatory. These procedures finction effectively in China and there are numerous competent
engincering design institutes ofering services in the design of small scale waste watcr treatment
plants as there are suppliers offering package treatment systems designed to comply with relevant
national standards even under the intermittent operational conditions of slaughterhouses.
The mitigation steps to be followed within the project are summarized in Table 13. Reports on
the environmental conditions in slaughtering and processing plants would be submitted on a
quarterly basis to the appropriate county or city environmental protection bureaus in accordance
with normal procedures, The provincial environmental bureaus would also be appraised quarterly
of the environmental conditions associated with the operation of the project.  Summary
environmental reports would be submitted to the CPMO on a six-monthly basis for review by the
Bank. These reports would document the levels of compliance achieved by the facilities, describe
the situations in which it has not been possible to achieve compliance and the measures that are to
be taken to ensure that the provincial standards are adequately met.



19
Table 13 - EnvIronmental Mitiation Plan for Slaughtering and Procesuing Enterprises
Activity        Agency(ies)       MoiingchedulF                 Objectives
Responsible
1. Prepar BIA   1. Applicant, EPB   1. Follow Project EIA report and  -Environmentally
Report.                           EMP guidelines.              compatible operation.
2. Obmin        2. P4O0, EPB
clearance of the                                               -Example of Beut Practices
Report.                                                         in environmental impact
3. Apply for    3. Local                                       mitgation.
Operating       govemmenL
Permit                                                           Compliance with China
4. Complete     4. Applicant,    4. In consultation with PMO and  EPB laws and regulations.
Expansion,      PMO              in accordance with allocated
including                        Project budgets.              *In-bouse Quality Assurance
pollution                                                      program for environmental
conrol system.                                                 monitoring to be interal
S. Establish    5. Applicant                                   part of Brand name-based
Environmental                                                  marketing sategy for
Monitng Unit                                                   quality beef.
(EMUY)
6. Obtain       6. Applicant,
training for    PMO
EMU.
7. Establish    7. Applicant,    6. See outline of indicuors and
indicators and    EPB, PMO       monitoring technique in EMP.
monitoring
system.
8. Establish    8. Applicant,     8. Monitorig to be continuous
reporting       PMO               as part of HACCP/ISO-9002
system.                          program; reporting to PMO
9. Establish    9. Applicant,     quarterly. Full reports to be
Quality         PMO, EPB          annexed biannually to Bank
Assurance                         supervision mission materials.
systoms.          .__         __                                   _     _    _     _
E. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MONITORING
Description of Monitoring Measures 2ad Indicators. Environmental Monitoring measures and
indicators have been developed for; participating housoholds; feedlots, markets, service stations,
and slaughteing/processing plants. Some of tiese have already been refTrTed to in the text, but all
have been tabulated in Table 14.



20
Table 14 - Environmental Monitoring Mesures nd Indicators b  Project Component
Project           Monitoring Measure(s)fIhdicator(s)             Unit/Measure
Activity
Household Cattle  Available crop byproducts
Production       Number of cattle                        No. <lyr, >1 yr,
Shed design                             as per PMO format
Environmental impact bainig             certificate
Visits by EPB, PMO                      household survey
Waste disposal for fattening HHs        verified before Permit
Manure disposal                         verified: conta or self-use
Zoonotc Disese  Cattle proximity lo dwellings           verified
Control          Public health                           Public Health Bureau reports
Diagnosis of reportable disea           AIB report
Feedlots         FeeLot capacity                         As agreed per permit
Actual cattle tumover/yr.               Production report
EMU in place                            Supervision verification
Training received                       Supervision verification
Solid and liquid drainage systems;     Verification of operation
Pollutnts discharge into watersheds     EPB report(s)
Contruction quality                     Supervision verification
Feedlot managnment                      Supenion verification
Public consultation                    Interviews with nearby dweller
Supervision reports EPB reports
Workers' safety                         Verification of compensation
reports
Construction/equipment for pollution cotzol  Verification of budget utilization
m place                                 and supervsion !spection.
Simightering!    Air emissions                           )
Processing Plants  Solid wases                           )
Liquid effluents                        ) Relevant national standards
Dust                                    )
Health & Safety procedures              )
Compliance with EPB reulations          EPB report.
Public consultation                     Survey from adjacent dwellers.
Training received                       Supervision reports and verification.
In-houae EMU functional                 Supervision verification.
Constucion/eequipment for pollution control  Verification of budget utlization
in place                                and supervision inspection.
Feed Mills       Air emissions                           )
Dust                                    ) Relevant national standards
Worker and Health safety                )
Public consultaion                      Interviews with local residents
Compliance with EPB regulations         EPB report
Training received                       EPB report
In-house EMU finctional                 PMO report.
Supervision verification/monitoring
reports.
Consu,ction/equipment for pollution control  Verification of budget utilzation
in place                                and supervision inspection.
Monitoring and reporting procedures. EIA monitoring is divided into (a) the monitoring of
industrial entities such as slaughter houses, processing plants, and feed mills, and (b) monitoring
of catte housedold production and feedlots. Agencies responsible for monitoring we indicated in
Tables 7, 8, 10, 12 and 13.



21
Organization. A technical environmental monitoring group would be established under the
Provincial PMO of each project province and under local county-level PMOs, with responsibility
for day-to-day management of environmental activities during project implementation. Senior
staff of this group will be familiar with environmental issues related to agriculture and, generally,
are expectcd to be seconded from local EPBs. Feedmills and slaughtering/processing plants
would have their own in-house Environmental Management Units as is current practice in China
The EMU's would:
*  review compliance of project funded facilities with the existing regulations,
*  undertake and/or supervise minor ongoing impact assessment activities for the establishment
of new feedlots or other facilities introduced later in project implementation, and
*  provide advice and design inputs to other project components on environmental issues (an
example of this would be in the desip, location and management of manure storage systems)
* assist PEMO in reviewing and clearing construction permits
* undertake all technical monitoring and reporting, and
* prepare M&E reports at the appropriate time.
F. CAPACT  DEVELOPMENT AND TRAING
Training Programs. Training has been arranged for all project participants in accordance with
their technical needs. This includes environmental impact mitigation and monitoring, which will
be directed to the EMUs to be established in slaughtering/processing plants. In addition,
participating households would receive basic training in environmental protection. The following
schedule provides information regarding training content and estimated cost. Training is to be
synchronized just before the onset of project activities so that knowledge is fresh and up to date.
The training schedules is shown in Table 15.
Table 15- Environmntal Impact MitigationTraining Programs
Component                Training Programs
Households              -feeds and feeding
-composting; anmoniated straw production; ensilaging
-basic animal healthiygicnc
_____ _____ _____ ____ -manure handling
Service Centers         -animal health; hygiene
-water contamination
-zoonotie diseases
FeedActs                -feedlot m-anageinent
-feeds and feeding
-manure disposal
.animal hygiene
-worker safety
-recording and reporting
___________________-EMUs: environmental monitoring



22
Proceusing Plants      -plant hygiene
-HACCP/ISO-9002
-meat inspection
-beef gading
-packing and storage
-plant mangement
-worker safety
-EMU': environmental monitoring
Fecd Mills             -noise, air pollution
-worker afety
-plantmanagement
-dust control
-fire protection
.EMU's: environmental monitoring
Local EPBs, PMO/BMJ    -.review procedures for compliance with local
environmental regulations and laws
- implementation of the Environmental Management Plan
Procurement of Civil Works, Equipment and Supplies. Current Bank guidelines for the
procurement of environmentally-related civil works and equipment, and the use of standard
Chinese bid documents, would apply to all Project-related procurement. All civil works,
equipment and supplies associated with pollution control would be procured by NCB for
contracts over SIOO.OOO with direct shopping for contracts below that amount. NCB contracts
between S400,000 and S2,000,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Ex-post reviews
of statements of expenditure for expenditures not subject to prior review would be carried out as
part of procuromcnt supervision. The PPMOs have already established qualified procurement
staff at county and higher level PMOs. A Bank procurement review has been completed and
cleared. Procurement would proceed in accordance with the time schedule presented in Table 16.
Organizational Changes. No organizational changes are envisaged in the implementation of the
Project's environmental pollution control measures. EMUs will be attached to all local and
provincial PMOs. Review measures for permits are in place. Staff is being appointed and trained,
and environmental mitigation will be dealt with during the Launch Workshop. Reporting
mechanisms are in place.
G. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE AND COST ESTIMATES
Implementation Schedule. Thc implementaion schedule for environmental training, monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) is presented in Table 16 and follows the overall training schedule set out
in the PIP (Table 9). Part of the budgets listed under Trining are also dedicated to training for
purposes other than environmental skills development, but have been isolated as much as
possible. This is especially the case for the training of households. Environmental M&E budgets
have been presented as cumulative (i.e. recurmnt) budgets from PY1 through PY4,
Recurrent and Capital Investment Cost Estimates. Rocurrent M&E cost estimates have been
extended throughout the project's life span through PY4. Standard training costs and
environmental pollution control equipment or construction for feedlots and service centers have
been standardized per unit (see notes, Table 16). Training costs have also been standardized per
person trained.



23
Table 16- Environmental M&E Tr ng_lmplementation Schedule by Province & Budget
Activity    Unit  Qty   PY2  PY3  PY4  Total  Value  PY2  PY3   PY4  Totsl
FYI                                 Qty  PY1                                        Y'OOO
Henan           Total                                                                                            4993.4
Civil woks:
Sevice centes  No,           101                                  101      50.5                                   50.5
Pecdlots       No                      51                          Si              204.0                         204.0
Procesing      Unit                     2                           2              394.5                         394.5
'uquipatent: 
Servie cents  No.            101        2                           2     101.0  2070.0                         2171.0
Processing     Units                                                                                          .
Irsinin                             _ _
Houscholds     No.         12150   12150   12150               36450      607.5   607.5      607.5              1822.5
Service ceters  Persons      505                                  101      MS.5                                   50.5
Foedlotr       Persons                102                         102               20A                          20.4
Pcessing       Persons,                20                         20                20.0                         20,0
M&E             Tohl        YTW0                                1- 7.0  -2                    2600    260.0*   - 81 7.0
Cum. Costs      Ytyr.
Hebei           Total                                                                                            3350.2
Civil works:
Serviee centr   No.           57       39                          96      28.5     19.5                         43.0
Fccdlots       Nc.            23       24                          52      96.0    48.0                          144.0
Processing     Unlts           2                                    2     166.0                                 414.0
Equipment:                                                                           -
Service cenrers  No.          57       39                          96      57.0    39.0                           96.0
Proccsuing     No.             2                                    2     267.0     _                      _    267.0
Training           -         -
Households     No.         18489   18489                       36973      924.5   924.5                         1149.0
Semice centers  Pesons       235      195                         480      19.5                                   4S.0
Feedlots       ?erODs        I1f       78                         196      1S.6                                   39.2
Proccsing      Pcnons         20                                   20      20.0                                   20.0
AMff            Totl        Y'O                              _             119.0   102.2       102.0   102.0      425.0
Cum, Cons       Y/yr.
Anhui           Total                                                                                            2813.7
Civil works:
Servic ccnr   No.             42       27       17        9        95      21.0      135        3.5     4.S       47.5
Feedlots       No.             4       12       12        2        30       6.4    52.         46.4    20.0|   125.6
Processinx     Units           1                                    1       15.3    -                             15.3
Equipmnent:                  -                                              -
Service centers  No.          42       27       17        9        95      42.0    27.0        17.0      9.0      95.0
Processg       No,             I          I                         1                        -9         -          4,9
Households     No.          8361    19154   13523    2866       43904     413.1    975.7      676.2      6.6    2076.6
Service enter   Pesons       210      135       aS       45       475      42.0    27.0        17.0      9.0      9S.0
FeedJots       PCrsons        16       72       56       20       164       3.2      14.4      11.2      4.0      32.8
Proceaing      Persons        10                                   10       10.0                       -          10.0
MU         -    Tota        Y     'uu                                        53.0     77.0      1 1    131,1     379,U
CumL Costs      Ytyr.
Shanxi                                                                                                           425 .8
Civil works:
Servicecnt r   No.           113                                  113       56.5                                   56.5
Feedlots       No.                      6        6                 12       60.0     60.0                         120/0
P               Units          2                                    2       51.8                                   51.8
Equipment:
Service centers  No.         113                                  113      113.0                                  113.0
Processing     No.             2                                    2    1552.5      -        -         -        1552.5
Training.
Households     No.         20000    4000    6000    2000        32000    1 D00.0   200.0      300.0   100.0    1600.0
Scrvicc =ntcrs  Pereons      565                                  565      113.0                                  113/0
Feedlots       Persons        60       60                         120       12.0     12.0                          24.0
Proccssinu     Pe irs n       20                                   20       20.0     -                             20.0
MAE              Total                                            119.0    137.0   1155.u       155 .   155.u    6-U1
Cum, Coss       Y/yr.
Notes - see next page



24
Costs are unified by activity across provinccs, with the cxccption of civil works and equipmcM for proCessing plants
and feed mills. Markets arc includcd undcr Scrvicc Ccnters.
Civil Works unit costs: service centers YSOO; fcdlos; 100 hed Y4,000, 200 head YI,600, 300 hoad Y7,000; 400 head
Y9,000; 500 had YIO,000.
Equipment: service centers Y1000, feedlots: 100 head Y2000; 300 head Y2000; 500 bhad Y5000.
Taining costs: Tnaining cost /household Y50/penon. Households pay one-half of cost.
Average persons/service sation trained: 5 pemons @Y100 each.
Persons/feedlot nained: 100 hd -2 persons; 200 hd -4; 300 hd - 5; 500 hd- 10. Cost/person: Y200 each.
10 persons trained per processing plant @ Yl,000 each. Paid by enterprises.
3 perns trained per feed mill e YS00 each. Paid by enterprises.
M&E coswyT.: Service centers: YI,000; Feedlots; avg. Y2,000, processing plants: Y3,000. Cumulative budget/yr. to
PYS.
H. INTEGRATION OF EMP wiTh PROJECT
As indicated, the onset of environmental pollution control parallels project implementation,
beginning at construction, and will be closely monitored byPMOs and EMU's. Subloan approval
would be conditional to the completion of required completing the necessary documentation and
action related to pollution mitigation.



