Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19849-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$93.5 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 24, 1999
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of October 1999)
Currency Unit  =    Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00  =    US$0.12
US$1.00  =    Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)  =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kin)  =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)  =    15 mu
1 ton (t)  =    1,000 kg
1 kilogram (kg)  =    2.2 pounds
ABBREVIA.TIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC      Agricultural Bank of China                 MEU   Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
AHB      Animal Husbandry Bureau                    MOA   Ministry of Agriculture
AHVS   Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Stations     MOF   Ministry of Finance
AusAID  Australian Agency for International         NCB   National Competitive Bidding
Development                                NBF   Non-Bank Financing
ACWF   All China Women's Federation                 NGO   Non-Government Organization
Al       Artificial Insemination                    NPV   Net Present Value
AT       Agro-Technical                             PAHB  Provincial Animal Husbandry
CAAS    China Academy of Agricultural Sciences             Bureau
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                PFB    Provincial Finance Bureau
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency   PIP    Project Implementation Plan
CISC     Cattle Industry Services Center            PLG    Project Leading Group
CPMO    Central Project Management Office           PMO   Project Management Office
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment            PPMO  Provincial Project Management Office
EMP      Environmental Mitigation Plan              QBS   Quality-Based Selection
EMU      Environmental Monitoring Unit              QCBS  Quality and Cost-Based Selection
EPB      Environmental Protection Bureau            RMB   Renminbi - Chinese Currency
ERR      Economic Rate of Return                    SA      Special Account
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization          SEPA   State Environmental Protection
FECC    Foreign Economic Cooperation Center                 Administration
HACCP  Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point       SOE   Statement of Expenditure
HRI      Hotel Restaurant Institutional             TA      Technical Assistant
(marketing segment)                        TPAG  Technical and Producer Advisory Group
ICB      International Competitive Bidding          WTO   World Trade Organization
LIBOR   London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Yukon Huang
Sector Director: Geoffrey B. Fox
Task Team Leaders: Rapeepun Jaisaard and Abraham Brandenburg



China
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                  2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators           2
B. Strategic Context                                                              2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                              3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices      3
C. Project Description Summary                                                    4
1. Project components                                                      4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project           8
3. Benefits and target population                                          8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                           9
D. Project Rationale                                                             12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection              12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design               13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                       14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                            15
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                      15
1. Economic                                                               15
2. Financial                                                              15
3. Technical                                                              16
4. Institutional                                                          17
5. Social                                                                 17
6. Environmental assessment                                               18
7. Participatory approach                                                 19
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                      19
1. Sustainability                                                         19
2. Critical risks                                                         20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                         21



G. Main Loan Conditions                                                         21
1. Effectiveness                                                         21
2. Other                                                                 21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                 22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                23
Annexes
Annex I      Project Design Summary                                      24
Annex 2      Detailed Project Description                                26
Annex 3      Estimated Project Costs                                     44
Annex 4       Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                              46
Table 1      Summary of Economic Analysis                              46
Table 2      Summary of Sensitivity Analysis                           49
Annex 5      Financial Surnmnary                                         50
Annex 6      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                   51
Table A      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                 55
Table Al     Consultant Selection Arrangements                         56
Table B      Thresholds f6r Procurement Methods and Prior Review       57
Table C      Allocation of Loan Proceeds                               58
Table D      Estimated Disbursement Schedule                           59
Table E      Retro-Active Financing Plan                               60
Annex 7      Project Process:ing Schedule                                61
Annex 8      Documents in FProject File                                  62
Annex 9      Eligibility Criteria for Subloan Approval                   63
Annex 10     Beef Cattle Marketing Report                                65
Annex 11     Beef Grading, Inspection, Quality Assurance and Markets     69
Annex 12     Competitiveness of China's Beef Industry in Joining the WTO  74
Annex 13     Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan                78
Annex 14      Statement of Loans and Credits                             94
Annex 15     Country at a Glance                                         97
Maps
IBRD 30405, 30406 and 30407



China
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Date: November 24, 1999                             Task Team Leaders: Rapeepun Jaisaard and
Abraham Brandenburg
Country Director: Yukon Huang                       Sector Director: Geoffrey B. Fox
Project ID: PE-P045264    Sector: Agriculture       Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [  Credit      [  Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M): Loan of $93.5
Proposed terms:                        [I   Multicurrency    [X] Single currency (US Dollars)
Grace period (years): 5          [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 1%
Financing plan (US$M):
Source                                Local            Foreign            Total
Government                                  24.60                               24.60
Domestic Banks                              17.76                               17.76
IBRD                                        36.85              56.65            93.50
Beneficiaries                               44.94                               44.94
Total         124.15              56.65           180.80
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Agriculture and Provinces of Henan, Hebei, Shanxi and Anhui
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    2000     2001     2002      2003     2004      2005   2006
Annual     8.7      27.8     29.0      16.8      6.5       3.8    0.9
Cumulative     8.7     36.5      65.5     82.3      88.8      92.6   93.5
Project implementation period: 5 years Expected effectiveness date: May 10, 2000
Expected closing date: December 31, 2005



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project aims to improve smallholder cattle production within existing crop farming areas with large
crop byproduct surpluses, and improve the quality and marketability of cattle in order to enhance farmer
incomes and reduce poverty. The project would assist the government's policy of developing its beef
cattle subsector in response to emerging market demand for quality beef. The project would put special
emphasis on assisting smallholders in the inland provinces of Henan, Hebei, Anhui and Shanxi, which
have the necessary surplus labor and natural resources, but are constrained by the low productivity and
quality of cattle, a lack of animal husbandry technology, and processing and marketing infrastructure.
Specifically the project would:
*     Improve cattle productivity,
*     Increase the efficiency of converting low-value crop residues into high-value beef and beef
products, and
*     Promote marketing linkages.
j~tiv.                       IS K,;,f~nac 1niMos
Improve Cattle Productivity               *     Cattle performnance records
*     Artificial insemination coverage
*     Technology transfer acceptance
*     Support service efficacy
Increase the efficiency of converting lowA)-value  *    No. producers utilizing crop residues
crop residues into high-value beef and be-ef  *    Cattle performance records
products.                                  *    No. of producers using crop residue
feeding technologies
Promote marketing linkages                 *     Cattle market profitability
e    Number of producers using markets
Enhance rural household incomes            *    Household income survey
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16321      Date of latest CAS discussion: March 18, 1997
Progress Report was discussed on May 28, 1998
Major CAS objectives which govern the Bank's lending program to China's agriculture sector emphasize
support for the development of integrated marketing and logistical systems for agricultural commodities
in order to establish linkages from productiion to urban markets. The objectives also emphasize the need
to increase efficiency in livestock production through improvements in feed and production technologies,
thereby generating higher-valued animal products. The project would respond positively to these CAS
strategies by supporting the development of the emerging beef cattle subsector, which has strong potential
for commercial development, as well as providing a source of income generation in rural areas.



Page 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
*  China's goals for agriculture sector development include raising farmers' standards of living by
making better use of agricultural technology and accelerating the development of agro-industries
utilizing agricultural outputs.
*  Raising agricultural productivity in grain and livestock is essential to meet increased demand for food
and feed emanating from population and income growth. Research and extension for developing and
disseminating appropriate technologies and new breeds are essential. Inadequate or irregular cattle
breed improvement results in sub-optimal cattle performance and poor feed conversion efficiency
which wastes natural resources. The Government's strategy is to improve cattle breeds and to
introduce cattle feeding through the use of non-grain (feed residue) resources.
*  Current beef supply is low quality and presents serious food safety problems. Average per capita
consumption is low relative to pork but will increase due to changes in income and taste, providing
that the quality and safety of the meat are ensured. The Government's strategy is to improve beef
processing quality through improved sanitation, food safety and beef grading.
*  Rapidly rising unmet demand for quality beef by urban markets, due to increased urban incomes and
the economic growth of urban business centers, has led to substantial imports of quality beef, as
domestic beef production has not grown fast enough to satisfy demand for quality products. The
Government's strategy is to develop the beef subsector and respond to urban markets by increasing
supplies through efficient production and quality upgrading.
3  Increasing competition for the country's grain resources by human and livestock populations. As a
result, the government has based its strategy of increasing beef cattle production on the feeding of
underutilized low-value crop residues, such as crop and agro-processing by-products which are
available in significant quantities.  There are proven technologies with which to enhance the
nutritional value of such residues. Crop residues have potential as low-cost cattle feeds and as an
alternative to burning, the current method of disposal, which has associated environmental impacts.
*  A significant lack of marketing and transportation infrastructure continues to have a negative impact
on commercializing the beef cattle subsector. Underdeveloped marketing systems and limited farner
access to trade information limits the ability of farmers to respond to market demand and improve
quality. The Government's strategy is to promote the integration of markets, producers and processors
into a demand-oriented marketing system.
*  Excess beef processing capacity prevails as the result of outdated equipment and processing
technology and poor marketing strategies. This has resulted in an underdeveloped and loss-making
processing sector which is having adverse environmental impacts due to inadequate waste treatment
facilities in many outdated enterprises. An upgraded commercial processing sector needs to be
developed with better equipment and processing standards and improved environmental control. The
Government's strategy is to commercialize the processing sector through the introduction of non-
government ownership, market orientation and improved processing quality.
*  Concurrently, the regulatory system needs to take account of grading, standardization and quality
control. The Government's strategy is to improve meat inspection and introduce price-differentiated
beef grading.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
* Establish beef cattle breeding programs and cattle performance and monitoring to ensure continuous
genetic upgrading, while maintaining the strength of the genetic pool of local indigenous breeds.



Page 4
*  Support livestock research, extension and veterinary services.
*  Provide support for more efficient and lower-cost cattle production by promoting the utilization of
nutritionally enhanced crop residues wvhich are available in abundance but poorly utilized as cattle
forage, principally due to a lack of farmer knowledge of forage preservation and the nutritional
enhancement of low-quality byproducts.
*  Reduce marketing infrastructure coinstraints by assisting the project provinces in developing
marketing facilities and market information capability.
*  Assist in rehabilitating or developing the agro-processing sector into an effective and environmentally
sound linkage between cattle production and beef markets, in order to exploit the value-added that
can come from grading, food safety and quality assurance.
*  Assist the Animal Husbandry Bureaus (AHBs) to efficiently provide new and improved support
services to farmers.
*  Establish cattle tracing systems, which will contain information recorded by farmers, feedlots,
markets and processors. The system can provide feedback information to households and others on
the quality of cattle, market demand and prices.
*  Assist the meat inspection service bureaus to upgrade their regulatory systems for grading and quality
control. Independent quality control and production-incentive systems would be established to
improve the quality of final products.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component              Category        Cost Incl.    % of      Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total   financing    Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)   financing
(a) Breed and Feed          Physical/               2.00       1.1        1.03        1.1
Improvement              Institutionail
(b) Cattle Production       Physical!             132.53      73.3       68.47      73.2
Institutional
(c) Market Development      Institutional          25.45      14.1       13.94       14.9
(d) Institutional Strengthening  Physical/Ins       19.88     11.0        9.12        9.8
(e) Front-end Fee           Financial               0.94       0.5        0.94        1.0
Total       180.80    100.0       93.50      100.0
Component Description
(a) Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement Component ($2.00 million)
(i)    Breed Improvement ($1.35 million).  This sub-component aims to improve cattle
breeds by producing improved breeds that would be suitable for commercial cattle
production under local production conditions, while also preserving the genetic materials
of indigenous breeds. Along the line of the successful operation of the breeding centers
established by the provincial governments in Hebei and Shanxi, the project would
strengthen the efforts of the Henan and Anhui provincial governments to improve cattle



Page 5
breeds, which are now predominantly limited to local breeds of low productivity and
slow growth and are thereby unsuitable for quality beef production. The project would
strengthen the two existing Henan and Anhui provincial breeding centers by upgrading
and expanding beef bull stations. The project would also support the importation of bulls
for cross-breeding by Anhui and Shanxi.  The existing frozen-semen production
technology would be shifted from frozen pellet to frozen-straw technology and would
compliment the provincial artificial insemination (Al) system, resulting in a more
efficient and improved genetic system. It would support the government in upgrading the
indigenous breeds and reviewing the breeding strategies. It was agreed at negotiations
that the provincial governments of Henan and Shanxi would, from their own budgets,
continue to support their indigenous cattle breed improvement programs to enhance
commercial cattle production and would submit their comprehensive programs, together
with a time-bound action plan for its implementation, to the Bank for review by no later
than December 31, 2001 (page 21 (a)). Each project province would submit a program
designed to maximize cattle performance through a comprehensive medium-term cross-
breeding strategy, together with a time-bound action plan for its implementation to the
Bankfor review by no later than December 31, 2001 (page 21(b)).
(ii)   Feed Improvement ($0.65 million). The project would support the construction of a
small mill in Shanxi to produce cattle vitamin-mineral molasses blocks. Shanxi Province
plans to introduce mineral blocks, which are not currently available in the project and sell
these also to the other project provinces. The project would finance a pilot scale 1.5t/hr
block-making plant to produce 3,000 tons of mineral block lick per year.
(b) Cattle Production Component ($132.53 million). The cattle production component aims to
increase cattle production and productivity in existing farming areas and thereby increase household
incomes. This would be possible through the introduction of improved breeds, cross-breeding programs,
improved feeds, feeding of ammoniated straw and crop by-products, veterinary services, and improved
animal husbandry practices. Technologies for forage enhancement through crop residue conversion
would be made available to all participating households andfeedlots (page 21 (c)). This component is
divided into three sub-components: (a) a household cow-calf-raising sub-component; (b) a household
cattle fattening sub-component; and (c) a small-scale commercial feedlot sub-component, as follows:
(i)    Household Cow-Calf-Raising Sub-Component at ($93.34 million).  This major
production sub-component aims to assist 128,158 households spread across all four
provinces in establishing small household cattle breeding and production units. The size
of individual production units will be very small; typically between 2 and 3 head per
household per year. The project households would purchase breeding cows, use Al
services to obtain improved cross-bred calves, manage the breeding cows and fatten their
calves using nutritionally enhanced ammoniated straw, and sell bull calves to other
fattening households, feedlots or cattle markets. Heifer calves would be maintained for
breeding or sale to other farmers. The project would support participating households by
providing subloans for the purchase of breeding cows, cattle sheds, cattle production
equipment, and urea and plastics for straw ammoniation. Support services would be
available to production households at the regular prices charged by the stations. To
ensure a sustainable supply of superior young cattle in each project province, adequate
numbers of cow-calf-raising households would be recruited and induced to remain in the
project so that they would not fall back on breeding cows of unknown genetic
composition.
(ii)   Household Cattle Fattening Sub-Component at ($21.96 million). This sub-component
aims to support 10,332 rural households with sufficient home-grown crop by-products to
set up small livestock fattening enterprises to increase farm income beyond what they



Page 6
earn from crops. The size of individual production units will be very small; typically
between seven and eight head per household per year. Fattening models would vary from
one to three fattening cycles per year. These households would purchase bull calves from
the cow-calf households and raise them for almost a year for sale to processing plants or
cattle markets. The project would support participating households by providing subloans
to cover the initial costs of cattle, cattle sheds, production equipment and forage storage
facilities. Feeding regimes would be based on maximizing the utilization of ammoniated
or ensilaged crop residues, fortified with oilseed cake. Support services would be
available on a cost basis.
(iii)   Feedlot Production Sub-Component at ($17.23 million). This sub-component aims to
produce quality cattle and to also provide linkages between production and markets.
Feedlots would provide an important market channel for absorbing young stock sold by
project households and wculd sell finished cattle to beef processors. The project would
provide financial support through subloans to be made to 130 small feedlots for
expansion and/or upgrading. Feedlots would be operated by individual households,
registered collectives (a group of households) or commercial enterprises. Project feedlots
have been designed to be compatible with the environment by (a) having a relatively
small capacity of 100-500 head per production cycle of 100-180 days; (b) utilizing
treated crop residues ratheir than adding to air pollution by buming and (c) generating
large amounts of valuable organic fertilizer in the form of manure for sale. Allfeedlots to
be upgraded or expanded under the project would not have a capacity of over 500 head
per single production cycle and wouldfollow the environmental guidelines as setforth in
the Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan, dated July 1999, approved by the
Bank (page 22 (d)).
(c) Market Development Component ($25.45 million). This component aims to provide support for
the development of cattle and beef marlcets. The project would support two major infrastructure
investments, as follows:
(i)    Live Cattle Market Development ($1.68 million).  This sub-component aims to
develop a pilot program for live cattle markets, which would be centers for trade and
market information as well as places to access technical knowledge and veterinary
services. The project would assist the Animal Husbandry Bureaus (AHBs) to upgrade
through subloans, a small number of existing cattle markets in project provinces, 2
markets in Anhui, one in l1[enan and Hebei, and five in Shanxi. The effectiveness of
these markets would be assessed during supervision missions, and at the mid-term
review, and subject to the results of the review, up to 10 additional markets might then
be funded, where feasible. Investments at each livestock market would include a simple
marketing office with a veterinary room and a sale shed, and the construction of water
troughs, rails and feed bins for cattle. A weigh scale with a print-out facility would be
provided for voluntary use by farmers and dealers. Staff from AHBs would be trained to
collect price and market information and track project cattle entering these markets.
(ii)    Beef Market Linkage Development ($23.77 million). This component would provide
key linkages between production and markets by producing quality beef of specified
grades on delivery schedules required by the markets. This would be achieved through
integrated planning and management by processing facilities, feedlots and farmers.
Processors, which produce for supermarkets and other customers, would, through their
purchasing and storage activities, match supply and demand on a year-around basis. By
doing so they would send essential signals to farmers and feedlots about the type and
quantity of beef required, which would result in a market response characterized by the



Page 7
production of quality cattle, the utilization of the grading standards, and the presentation
and packaging of product to the specifications of customers. The entire process would
provide an avenue for inducing farmers to produce for sophisticated urban markets. The
information collection system would be developed to collect market information and feed
it back to cattle markets, feedlots, processors, local Bureaus of Animal Husbandry and
farmers.
Cattle Slaughtering and Processing. The project would assist the upgrading and
expansion of four existing slaughterhouses (one in each project province). A new
slaughterhouse will be constructed in Hebei province. All facilities would need to meet
the eligibility criteria (Annex 9) to develop acceptable cattle slaughtering enterprises.
The project would finance the procurement or upgrade of processing equipment,
workshops, and facilities for chilling, cutting, quick-freezing and cold storage, as
necessary for the slaughterhouses to expand their operations and meet modem sanitary
standards. As required, waste treatment facilities would also be upgraded to bring the
enterprises into compliance with relevant environmental regulations or to keep the
upgraded enterprise in compliance if it already is so. This would enable them to convert
high-grade project cattle to all grades of high-quality beef. Commercial and technical
training would be provided for management, workers and staff.
Market Information: Quality Assurance.   Participating beef slaughtering and
processing plants would participate in the beef grading and quality assurance program.
They would use their own resources and work toward achieving the Hazard Analysis
Critical Control Point (HACCP) or ISO-9002 best-practice level. The Bank would
finance any equipment necessary to achieve HACCP or ISO-9002 status. Even though
project funds will be sufficient to undertake these activities, bilateral funds would finance
additional training and technical assistance required to reach HACCP or ISO-9002 best-
practice level. The project would also finance the training of plant managers and
workers, meat inspectors and provincial staff and provide such training on a continuous
basis. Project beef-processing enterprises would themselves identify budgets to support
the advertising of their fresh and processed beef products. Brand names established
would be used for advertising. Each processing enterprise would have an in-house
environmental monitoring unit.
Project feedlots, cattle markets and processing plants applying for Bank-financed
subloans to improve or expand their enterprises would have to meet agreed eligibility
criteria and comply with the Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan, dated
July 1999 (page 22 (e)).
(d) Institutional Strengthening Component ($19.88 million). This component aims to:
*  Assist the government in developing a reliable grading system which would be compatible with
international grading practice. It would involve all industry stakeholders and be used for both
national and international markets. Technical assistance would be provided.
*  Strengthen the Bureau of Animal Husbandry to efficiently provide new and better cattle production-
related services to fanners. Project activities would include:
(i)    expansion and upgrading of veterinary services in 396 Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Stations (AHVS),
(ii)   expansion of Al services in 599 Al stations,



Page 8
(iii)   development of a cattle recording system, through coded ear tags, to provide a tracking
capability from household producers through the markets and feedlots to processors. A
feedback system would be developed for evaluation of breeds.
(iv)   introduction of a quality-based beef pricing system, whose differentials would serve as
incentives or household cattle producers to produce improved cattle.
*  Provide training to participating households, AHVS personnel, breeding station staff, project
management staff, feedlot managers, and meat inspectors.
*  Support research and development. Each project province would finance research and development
programs related to cattle production using government counterpart funds. R&D will be carried out
by its agricultural university, academy of science or other research institution, support R&D related to
cattle production. R&D topics would include: genetic improvement, feeds and forages, feedlot
performance, reproductive efficiency, and cross-breeding. Annual research and development,
overseas training and study tour plans would be submitted to the Bank no later than December I of
each year for prior approval, at least 40% of farmers who received training each year under the
project would be women and all consultants would be hired in accordance with the IBRD guidelines
on the selections and use of consultants (page 22 (/)).
*  Strengthen project management offices by upgrading equipment, facilities and providing technical
assistant and training.
Project funding is in place to support the above-noted activities, to be further supported with bilateral
funds, if available.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.
The project would support the government's policy of developing the beef cattle subsector to improve
quality, from production through processing for sale in actual markets. The project would help to
institutionalize (a) improved breeds and animal husbandry services, (b) beef grading, standards and
pricing structures to provide incentives for producing different grades, (c) food safety standards,
(d) independent meat inspection services to maintain quality of live and processed products,
(e) commercial operations which are marke,t-driven, and (f) market information services to provide
feedback to producers and processors.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project's major benefits are expected to be incremental cattle and beef production, improved cattle
performance and beef quality, and increased incomes and employment in the rural economy. At full
development, the project is expected to produce 285,192 head of cattle per year, of which at presently
estimated demand, about 110,000 bulls would be sold to project slaughterhouses and processing plants,
32,596 bulls for cattle market and other processors, 50,000 heifers would be kept by project households
for replacement and 92,596 heifers would be sold to other farmers as breeding cows. Incremental
production of beef would be 23,200 tons of various grades. It would primarily supply high-end demand
in domestic markets. In total the annual incremental income would be $243.3 million. This includes the
value of live cattle sold on the hoof and the value of meat and by-products.
The project would provide incremental incomes to about 138,488 low income farm families in 73
counties, of which 24 are officially designated as poverty counties. Household farm models developed
under the project show that the average annual future net income from cattle production (keeping crop
production constant) would more than double compared to the without-project situation in three of the
project provinces (from Y 1,153 to Y 2,846 for Henan, from Y 191 to Y 1,109 for Hebei and from
Y 1,060 to Y 3,480 for Anhui). In Shanxi, the fourth project province, the average annual incremental



Page 9
income from breed improvement alone (household herd size would not be planned to increase in this
province) would increase from Y 1,329 to Y 1,931. In addition, the project would also provide
employment opportunities in the rural economy through commercial development. The development of
nine cattle markets, 130 feedlots and five processing enterprises would provide additional employment
for about 3,000 people.
Other benefits would come from improved technologies and infrastructure development. The project
would have a substantial impact on improving cattle breeds in four major cattle-producing provinces in
China, which together produce 35 percent of China's cattle. Project beneficiaries would benefit from the
transfer of cattle-breeding skills, improved animal-husbandry practices, improved technical support
services, better Al service delivery and enhanced commercial production facilities. Forage enhancement
and ensilaging technologies would ensure adequate forage supplies for sustained year-round cattle
feeding. The institutional strengthening activities directed to the commercialization and upgrading of
processing and service facilities would provide significant examples for replication elsewhere.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Period of Implementation. The project would be implemented over the five-year period FY2000-05.
Project effectiveness is scheduled for May 10, 2000 and the mid-term review would be by March 31,
2003. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004. The closing date would be
December 31, 2005.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements. The project would be managed by the Provincial
Governments of Shanxi, Anhui, Henan and Hebei through Project Leading Groups (PLGs) and Project
Management Offices (PMOs) at provincial, prefecture and county levels. The PLGs would be headed by
the Vice-Governors responsible for agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) through the Foreign
Economic Cooperation Center (FECC) in Beijing would be the project coordinator. The four provincial
PLGs, which would include representatives of the provincial agencies concerned with finance, planning,
agriculture, animal husbandry, women's affairs, environmental protection and audit, would provide
guidance to the provincial PMOs on project coordination and the resolution of project implementation
issues. Provincial PMOs would draw staff from the Provincial Animal Husbandry Bureaus (PAHBs),
Provincial Finance Bureaus (PFBs) and environmental protection bureaus. PAHB staff would be
responsible for day-to-day technical and project management, with assistance from PFB staff for the
financial management of the project. Staff from the environmental protection bureaus would assist the
PMOs in monitoring the conditions of the feedlots and processing plants and ensuring compliance with all
relevant laws and regulations.
Technical and Producer Advisory Groups (TPAGs) would be set up, by September 1, 2000, under the
project to provide guidance on technical and commercial aspects of cattle and beef production. The
TPAGs would be set up at the provincial level in each province, and would represent the interests of
producers and processors. These groups would be composed of representatives from AHB and
representative of farmers, feedlots, cattle markets and slaughterhouses. The AHB representatives would
work on the technical aspects, while the representatives of producers would concentrate on commercial
issues. Producer representatives would be appointed or selected by their peers. They would meet
regularly (every three months) to coordinate work plans, discuss progress and problems, and agree on
how to solve them.
The management structure of PLGs and PMOs would be replicated at all governmental levels, from the
provincial level down to the prefecture, county and township levels. The TPAGs would be replicated
only at the county level and would have experts in cattle raising, forage production, agro-economics and
environmental protection. All lower-level PMOs would report to the PMOs above them in the hierarchy
on implementation progress and issues and would prepare progress and other reports in their areas of
responsibility. The PFBs, as the Ministry of Finance's provincial line agencies, would be directly



Page 10
responsible to MOF for the project's financial management, including loan disbursement, monitoring, and
recovery and would disburse to project activities based on technical recommendations provided by the
PAHBs.
A Central Project Management Office (CPMqO) would be established at FECC in Beijing to coordinate
the work among the four provinces and between the provinces and the Bank. The CPMO would
coordinate International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement, training and study tours, progress
reporting, project monitoring and evaluation, liaise with agencies with direct or indirect involvement in
the project and make arrangement for Bank supervision missions.  It would also coordinate the
preparation of consolidated progress reports, financial reports and audit reports for Bank and Government
review.
The operation and management of the two breeding centers financed under the project in Henan and
Anhui Provinces would be carried out by the respective provincial animal husbandry bureaus. The
centers would produce and distribute frozen. bull semen in their own jurisdictions and sell surpluses to
other provinces. The breeding centers would operate on a fee-for-service basis in order to generate
sufficient income to support their operating costs. In addition, each center would take the lead in
developing and implementing an extension program to provide beef-cattle-producing households with
training and extension inputs related to beef cow performance monitoring and recording. This would be
accomplished in collaboration with existing extension workers and Al technicians, who would be trained
by the centers.
Cost recovery would be established for services received from the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Stations and AI Stations at levels sufficient to at least cover their operating costs. A schedule offees for
such services together with a time-bound action plan for the introduction of such fees, would be submitted
to the Bankfor review by no later than DeceMber 1, 2000 (page 22 (g)).
The cattle production component would be implemented by township governments in cooperation with
county AHBs. The county level of the All China Women's Federation (ACWF) would assist the
township government in household selection based on a set of criteria. County AHB staff would serve as
technical advisors for the local project township governments. They would assist in the selection and
acquisition of appropriate cattle breeds and the selection of production equipment required by
participating households in the townships. The county PMOs, in cooperation with the county AHBs and
Bureaus of Finance, would draw up contracts that would outline the functions and responsibilities of the
parties concerned, the investments required, the loan amounts and the repayment schedules. These
contracts would be used by county or township governments for their project farmers. The farmers have
to sign the contracts in order to receive sub- loans from the project. As for actual production, farmers
would operate independently and have the option to sell cattle to feedlots, slaughterhouses, live cattle
markets or other farmers, depending on their evaluation of benefits to be received. Farmers would be
encouraged to be members of cattle producer groups.
Feedlots would be managed on a commercial basis by qualified technical and business personnel. They
would be registered as independent entities, responsible for their own profits and losses. Project feedlots
would have to meet project eligibility criteria and would be required to use sound technical, business and
environment management practices, including adequate record-keeping and reporting.
Cattle markets would be incorporated as registered enterprises and would be operated by experienced
management teams. The management teamis would be responsible for planning and supervising
construction and managing the operation cf the markets. They would sign contracts with local
governments for loan repayment. They woulcl charge appropriate market fees for both buyers and sellers.
Slaughterhouses and meat processing plants under the project are all existing companies which already
operate on a commercial basis, with responsibility for profits and losses. All activities related to project



Page I 1
construction, processing, storage, packing and marketing would be the responsibility of the plants. Each
company would also be responsible for monitoring the investments approved under the project and for
periodically providing progress reports to the appropriate PMOs. The managers of both the feedlots and
the processing plants would have full authority to supervise construction and equipment installation. The
PPMOs would be facilitating agencies, providing support and coordination with governmental and
commercial agencies.
TPAGs would be established by September 1, 2000. PLGs, PMOs and TPAGs would be maintained
throughout the project with terms of reference, composition and resources acceptable to the Bank (page
22 (h)).
Financial Arrangements
Financial Management.  The Financial Management System  (FMS) to be used during project
implementation was reviewed and found to be acceptable. The provincial bureaus of finance in the four
project provinces have already carried out several Bank-financed projects, and appropriate regulations and
procedures are in place. The provinces use the guidelines the Ministry of Finance (MOF) developed in
cooperation with the Bank for financial management, accounting control and financial reporting. During
appraisal, a financial management review was conducted by the Bank's financial specialist to review the
project organization structure, financial management, accounting standards, internal control, cash
management, financial reporting, budgeting, and auditing. They were found acceptable. The Project
Financial Management Systems Manual was prepared to document operational procedures, reporting and
auditing requirements. The Provincial PMOs would establish reporting requirements and monitor the tables
which will be used at all levels, as follows: (a) a summary of sources and uses of funds, (b) a statement of
withdrawals from the Loan, (c) a special account reconciliation statement, and (d) a cost variance report. For
procurement, a separate set of reporting tables include: (a) progress on procurement of goods and services
and (b) ex-post review of disbursement by category and type of procurement for (i) NCB goods and works,
(ii) ICB goods, (iii) services and training, (iv)shopping, (v) force account, and (vi) direct contracting and
other procurement. These tables can be found in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Each PPMO would
combine financial reports with procurement and other progress reports for submission to the CPMO to
produce consolidated report for the Bank.
On-lending. The following on-lending arrangements have been agreed. MOF would onlend the Loan to
Hebei, Henan, Anhui and Shanxi Provinces on terms and conditions as received from the Bank (5-year grace
period and 20-year maturity). The Provincial Finance Bureaus (PFBs) would onlend to municipal, county
and township governments either in US dollars or in RMB depending on the desire of the beneficiaries or
the policy of the province. Municipal and township Finance Bureaus (FBs) would onlend directly to
feedlots and enterprises and would pass on the project funds to agro-technical service stations and breeding
centers at their level. The township FBs would onlend directly to feedlot, farmers, and service centers at
their own level. Loan appraisals and credit checks for project loans would be carried out by local FBs,
assisted in technical matters by local AHBs and in social matters by the ACWFs. Loans for enterprises
subject to regulation by Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs) would not be authorized in the absence
of EPB certification of compliance with all relevant environmental regulations in accordance with normal
procedures. For subloans denominated in US dollars, the interest rate charged to sub-borrowers would be
based on the rate at which funds are onlent to the PFBs by MOF. Repayment of principal amount in US
dollars over a period of not exceeding 10 years including 3 years grace period for existing enterprises, and
over a period of 15 years including 5 years grace period for newly established enterprises. Borrowers
with loans denominated in US dollars would be responsible for the foreign exchange risk. For subloans
denominated in local currency, the terms and interest rate would be at least equal to those prevailing for
loans set by Agriculture Bank of China (ABC) for loans of similar maturity at the time the subloan was
approved, and the foreign exchange risk would rest at the level where the currency was converted into
local currency.



Page 12
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that subloans would be made for subprojects that are
determined, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank Group, to be technically feasible and
economically, financially, and commercially viable (page 22 (i)).
The PFBs would be solely responsible for Loan recovery, in accordance with the terms and conditions it
has negotiated with its sub-borrowers. The PFBs (except for Hebei Province which would act through its
county FBs) would recover the household cattle production loan proceeds and deposit them in revolving
funds designated for livestock purchases. The PFBs and Hebei CFBs would be required to re-lend the
recovered loan proceeds from these revolving funds for such purposes, thus ensuring that the funds will
revolve.
Revolving funds for household cattle production would be established by PBFs and country BFs in this
case of Hebei Provinces, or their successors with the proceeds recovered from sub-loans. The FBs would
be required to re-lend the recovered loan proceeds for cattle production, thus ensuring that the funds will
revolve (page 22 ()).
Auditing. Each PPMO would engage an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank to conduct an annual
audit of project accounts. In the PMOs alt all levels, there would be a financial unit responsible for the
accounting operations of the project. This ullit would keep all invoices, receipts and accounting documents,
which would be subject to auditing agencies at same or higher levels. The Provincial Audit Administration
would be responsible for auditing all accounts and would submit the audit report to the National Auditing
Bureau to be prepared as a consolidated audit report for the Bank. This audit would verify the adequacy of
the system to document the receipt and disbursement of project proceeds both annually and cumulatively.
The audit report would contain a separate opinion on whether, based on documentation and internal controls,
statements of expenditure can be relied upon to support related withdrawals. All audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank not later than six mondhs after the close of the fiscal year.
Supervision, Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting. The project management offices at all levels would
monitor project progress. Regular supervision would be carried out to assess the physical, technical and
financial aspects of the project. Monitoring indicators including performance indicators would be used to
evaluate progress under the project. A progress report would be produced and sent to the Bank every six
months, by September I of each year for the preceding January-June and by March I for the preceding July-
December. The CPMO would coordinate with the PPMOs to make a broad assessment of project
implementation in a draft project completion report to be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
following the completion of loan disbursement. Progress reports would be produced andforwarded to the
Bank every six months. A mid-term review would be undertaken by March 31, 2003 (page 22 (k)).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The original design of the project emphasized increased productivity and production of livestock through
improved breeds. Since this is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for sustainable cattle production,
the project was redesigned to incorporate market linkages.
Pasture development and communal grazing were considered but rejected. Investment in improved
pasture management proved to be infeasible due to: (i) the need for a much greater scope of intervention
by supporting large watershed areas rather than upgrading scattered upland pastures; (ii) the already
serious overgrazed status of these pastures, which precluded additional grazing stress; and (iii) the very
limited infrastructure resources at hand to rectify these constraints.



Page 13
In the present design, cattle production would mainly be done in household compounds by farmers, using
crop-by products and a small quantity of feed supplements. This would make efficient use of existing
resources and, in the meantime, move the feeding technologies away from grain-feeding to efficient
forage feeding.
A number of proposed slaughterhouse investments were rejected due to the lack of clear market channels
or poor management. The selected processing facilities are processing plants already in operation and
have existing markets and the potentials to grow with modest investment to upgrade facilities and
management. These processing plants would provide demonstration examples for the future development
of the beef processing subsector.
Production of quality beef is emphasized under the project. The implications of quality production are the
necessary upgrading of household production technology and the commercialization of processing
facilities to ensure that market signals are received by and acted on by producers. This entails a number
of technical specifications in production and processing and investment in cattle markets, slaughterhouses
and market information development.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                  Project         Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Animal feed sector strengthening  China, 12 provinces          S              S
Livestock support services        China, 15 provinces          S              S
Cattle production and support services  Hebei, China           S              S
Cattle production and support services  Henan, China           S              S
Cattle production and processing  Heilongjiang, China         NA             NA
Household cattle fattening, breeding    Jilin and Liaoning, China  HS         S
Livestock production by low income    Shanxi, China            S             HS
households
Other development agencies
Canadian International Development   Dairy cattle and forage  NA             NA
Agency (CIDA)                     production
Australian Agency for International    Small ruminant grazing  NA            NA
Development (AusAID)              and rangeland
management
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project would address constraints in the beef subsector in an integrated manner through the
introduction of production and processing efficiencies, combined with an integrated approach to beef
market and marketing development.
The following lessons can be drawn from the above listed projects, which include similar objectives to the
present project, and have been incorporated into the project design:



Page 14
*  Market development should be institutionalized to provide both infrastructure and market information
to processors and producers. In the project, market demand would provide the signals for production
response.
*  Beef processing plants need to have rational marketing plans to absorb upstream supplies of cattle and
respond to downstream markets for finished products. Entry into the project by candidate enterprises
was made conditional on their having submitted acceptable marketing plans.
*  Processing plants, feedlots and cattle markets must be operated on a commercial basis to provide
efficient management decisions. All processors and markets are to be operated on a commercial basis
in the project.
*  No subsidies should be provided for services received from the Al and livestock support service
centers. Technical service centers must be operated on a cost recovery basis (i.e., full prices for
services and goods) in order to remain financially viable. All breeding, veterinary and Al centers in
the project have made commitments to charge full prices.
*  Live cattle and beef grading systems shDuld be introduced to provide the basis for quality pricing and
the resulting incentives for improved beef production. Cattle grading based on price differentiation
will be introduced into the project.
*  Sustainable numbers of young stock cattle must be ensured in order to stabilize input costs and cattle
flows from production through processing. Sufficient numbers of cow-calf-raising households have
been included in the project to ensure young stock supplies.
*  Feedlots must be limited in size so that production does not exceed cattle output of over 500 head per
production cycle in order to avoid problems of management, waste disposal, marketing and forage
availability. They are so limited in the project.
*  Successful household livestock production needs strong technical support services, good market
information, adequate marketing facilities, and attractive investment returns. These are provided by
the project.
*  Close attention must be paid to loan terms for household loans, in particular where household
investments (such as for cattle) are relatively high. Household financial models have been carefully
scrutinized so as to ensure manageable loan repayments and the Chinese management teams are
committed to providing loan on such tenns.
*  Cattle feeding using enhanced-forage technologies can be successful, provided that adequate and
timely technical support is made available to instruct farmers regarding these technologies.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project has received strong support from the government at all levels during project preparation. The
development of the beef subsector is a key objective of both the central and provincial governments. At
the central government level, the Ministry of Finance provided funds to finance a marketing study for
beef cattle to assist project preparation. The Ministry of Agriculture has been preparing for the
development of a national beef grading system. The government has also proposed a technical assistance
program for bilateral assistance, which will be a supplement to project activities. The MOA is also
playing an important coordination role in ploject preparation and has taken steps to prepare for future
implementation. The provincial governmenrts have spent substantial local funds on project preparation,



Page 15
assigned staff to be responsible for the project and made preparations for the counterpart funding required
for the project. Other government organizations have also been actively involved during project
preparation and would continue to play substantial roles during project implementation. These are the All
China Women's Federation in each project province and the Environmental Protection Bureaus in the
project areas. Strong stakeholder commitment has also been evident. Beef cattle farmers in the project
areas have been forming producer groups in anticipation of the project. Farmers have participated in
several project seminars during project preparation.  Finally, slaughterhouses and processors have
prepared investment plans and in other ways shown willingness to carry out the improvement activities
promoted under the project. Local governments at all levels would be responsible for providing the
necessary counterpart funds to ensure full implementation of all project activities within their jurisdiction.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The proposed project would benefit from the Bank's extensive experience in developing sustainable
livestock sectors. Specifically, Bank involvement in the project would add value to the Borrower's
efforts to (i) institutionalize reforms necessary for the development of the beef subsector, (ii) provide
initiatives to incorporate institutional and market development; (iii) introduce new production and
processing technologies; (iv) promote efficient use of feed and agricultural by-products; (v) promote
better production and processing management to enable producers to respond to market demand;
(vi) provide knowledge of commercial cattle production and marketing; (vii) promote the concept of food
safety through quality control and hygienic standards in beef handling and processing; and (viii) introduce
or improve environmental standards in designing the feedlots and operating processing plants. Bank
involvement has also been instrumental in attracting the interest of bilateral aid organizations. The Bank
has also usefully played a role in helping to coordinate the actions of government agencies within China.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= $232.0 million; ERR= 30%
Economic analysis has been carried out for each project province, combining all sub-components, and for
the project as a whole. The project as a whole has an ERR of 30 percent and a net present value at a
12 percent discount rate of Y 1.9 billion (equal to $232 million). The results of the analysis show the
project to have acceptable economic rates of return (ERR) for each province and for the project as a
whole. The estimated ERRs for individual provinces range from 24 percent to 39 percent. The project
remains viable even if there are significant unfavorable movements in costs and benefits. Analysis of
switching values indicates that costs would have to increase by 23 percent, or benefits decrease by 18
percent, or both move unfavorably together by 10 percent, before the ERR would decrease by 12 percent
(Annex 4, Table 2).
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV= $55.71 million; FRR= 22%
Financial analysis for the project has been carried out for farm-household-based cattle production,
fattening feedlot operations and processing enterprises. The results of the analysis show that all sub-
components have an acceptable financial rates of return (FRR) ranging from 20 percent to 27 percent.
Household production models were developed for cow-calf and fattening operations and for differently
sized feedlots. Individual household and feedlot, and processing plant models have been evaluated
technically and financially. The household cow-calf models have moderately high FRRs (25-32 percent)
in all project provinces.  The household-fattening models have very high FRRs (44-65 percent).
Commercial feedlots have consistent FRRs of around 30 percent. A positive correlation between feedlot
size and FRR can be discerned resulting from economies of scale, with Shanxi's 450-head feedlot having
the highest FRR (34 percent).



Page 16
Fiscal impact. The total incremental recurrent budget required to keep project activities in operation at
the same level of efficiency following the loan disbursement period is estimated at Y 30.0 million
annually. Government revenue will increase by Y 40.0 million mainly from increased tax revenue
received from an incremental value of cattle in the farms, feedlots, wholesale markets and processors.
The impact would be a positive Y 10.0 million.
3. Technical:
The technical features of the production and processing components of the project have been planned and
designed based on successful experience in. these aspects in other projects in China. These include
technologies for breeding, feeding, foragre enhancement technologies, support services, feedlot
management, processing and marketing. Breeding technology is quite advanced in China, where the
existing cattle breeding stations, managed at the provincial level, are quite capable of providing the
necessary genetic inputs from adequately managed bull stations and producing and distributing frozen
semen to producers. The improvement needJed in breeding strategy is in order to ensure that producers
will raise the type of cross-bred cattle needed by the market. The project would assist the stations in
establishing long-term, commercially oriented breeding programs, backed up by merit evaluation of
offspring at the farmer and processor levels.
Artificial insemination technology is not new to China. It has been used widely for cattle, horses,
donkeys, pigs and sheep. AHB staff and farmer technicians, who will be employed to disseminate
improved cattle genetics within the indigenous cattle pool, have relatively good performance records.
The project would provide training to further upgrade their skills and introduce a performance evaluation
program on which technicians would be hired and remunerated.
Straw ammoniation technology and crop byproduct ensilaging have been successfully implemented in
several provinces in China. These technologies were first introduced by FAO in the mid 1980s in Henan
province and have since spread to neighboring provinces with abundant byproduct resources. The
combined feeding of oilseed cake (rapeseed or cottonseed cake; byproducts of oil extraction) with
ammoniated straw will result in commercially viable weight gains of up to 0.8 kg per day. The project
would adopt this as the key feeding technolog,y.
Small scale feedlots are common in several northern provinces where cattle production has been
successfully carried out on a commercial scale. They are less common in the project area, and the
performance of the existing ones in the project area is hampered by inadequate management, feeding and
marketing. The project would bring successfill feedlot experience from Jilin Province to be used in the
project area. To strengthen small enterprise skills, feedlot operators would receive training in small
enterprise management, feeds and feeding, and marketing. Some of them would have contracts with
slaughterhouses and cattle markets to provide greater certainty to both parties. The project would support
periodic feedlot cattle performance testing to provide feedback to breeders and processors on weight gains
and carcass composition.
Beef slaughtering and processing would be based on the successful experience of the beef processing and
marketing operations supported under the Songliao Plain ADP. Processing is a very important part of the
integrated system, since it ensures that the value added at the production level is further increased by the
value produced by good quality processing and marketing. Many beef processors have not reached
satisfactory levels of performance and quality. To ensure better performance and quality, the project
would select and upgrade several existing commnercial processors that are committed to quality processing
and marketing. The project would support the introduction of HACCP or ISO-9002 best practices
system, selected investments in modern equiprnent, the training of workers and managers.



Page 17
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The provincial governments, through the PPMOs and the PAHBs, would oversee the implementation of
all project components. These agencies have experience in implementing other, similar World Bank
projects in their respective provinces.
b. Project management:
The project management staff at the central and provincial levels has prior experience in the design,
preparation and implementation of Bank projects. Participating households would be selected on the
basis of prior experience in and commitment to cattle raising. Technical personnel at each project
management level would provide broad-spectrum backup support for the PMOs. In all project provinces,
a good working relationship exists between the PAHB and PFB, which would provide joint project
management. Participation by the All China Women's Federation would ensure appropriate selection and
monitoring of participating project households.
Two institutions that will have a significant impact on improving breeding in the project areas are the
provincial breeding stations (PBS) and the Animal Husbandry Bureaus (AHB). The services that the
institutions provide - animal breeding services and veterinary services - are government-controlled and
often therefore slow to change. Both institutions have traditionally operated on the principle of quantity
over quality, on the rationale that, due to the huge service needs that prevail in China, quantity must come
first. Ongoing reforms, however, have recently reoriented these organizations so that they now take a
more commercialized approach to service provision. Successful operation and customer satisfaction for
the Al service is the basis for payment. The project will take full advantage of these recent developments.
The project would work with the project provinces on breed improvement on three significant fronts.
First, the project provinces of Henan and Shanxi, using non-project budgets, would continue to support
the upgrading of indigenous cattle breeds to provide a better balance between wholesale cross-breeding
using imported cattle breeds and the preservation and upgrading of the indigenous 'yellow cattle' base.
This would result in an improved purebred indigenous breeding cow pool from which to develop cross-
breeding programs. Second, cross-breeding strategies would be prepared by all project provinces which
are responsive to market-driven, commercial cattle production and maximize cattle performance. The
breeding station staff are well trained and quite familiar with prevailing conditions, and several excellent
cattle breeds and cross-breeds have already been produced by these stations. Third, the project would
support the upgrading of bull stud stations in Henan and Anhui.
The AHB networks are part of the provincial bureaus of agriculture and employ large numbers of
technical people at the lower levels (county, township and village levels). They are numerous but rather
poorly trained and equipped. Since the lower-level staff come most frequently in contact with cattle
producers, less than effective service is often provided. To improve services, intensive training programs,
specifying disease prevention, feeds, nutrition, and cattle performance, will be provided by the project. It
would also provide training in veterinary services and equipment. Technical services will be provided
under contract to producers in order to improve the quality and timeliness of the services.
5. Social.
The project would be implemented in 73 counties of which 24 are designated poor. The project would
have a significant impact on the socio-economic status of participating households and counties. It would
provide incremental income and job opportunities in cattle raising and processing to farmers and women.
Livestock production has traditionally been practiced in the rural areas as a source of incremental income
above that provided by crops. Since the project beneficiaries are of the Han nationality, voluntary cattle



Page 18
raising is not incompatible with their values and religious beliefs. Farm families will generally welcome
improvement in the quality of cattle, since they expect to gain more revenue than with the traditional
breeds they now raise. This incremental income from the project would typically pass through the hands
of women, since women raise the majority of cattle in China. Processing plants would hire more staff,
including more women for grading and packcing.
The ACWF would, as part of its household monitoring activities during implementation, assist local
PMOs at several stages of the project in assessing the socio-economic effect of the project by carrying out
sample surveys of participating households. The. provinces have given their assurances that 40% of
household trainees under the project would be women.
No resettlement, relocation of housing or loss of production assets or means of livelihood is anticipated
under the Project, since all works included in the project involve expansion of existing facilities.
However, since subprojects will be approved over the life of the Project, it is not possible at this time to
conclusively rule out resettlement. Consequently, the project provinces have agreed at negotiations that
in the event of any resettlement is needed iunder a subproject, the project province would prepare and
furnish to the Bankfor prior approval a resettlement action plan based on resettlement policies, planning
principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria acceptable to the Bank and as more
particularly set out in the Resettlement Framrework Guidelines for Project Implementation (page 22 (1)).
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category      [ I A   [X1 B   [I C
A positive environmental impact is expected, for several reasons. On the production side, positive effects
are two-fold: (a) the diversion of otherwise surplus, valueless crop residues to productive use in cattle
feeding rather than buming, and (b) the production of cattle manure as a valuable source of organic
fertilizer. On the processing side, the principal positive effect would be the production of safe food for
wholesale and retail markets, because of the strict attention given to food safety, beef quality and meat
inspection. From an agricultural point of view, valuable organic fertilizer, in the form of manure, would
be available for cropland improvement.
Care would be taken to ensure that:
(a)    available crop residue resources are sufficient for projected forage requirements,
(b)    village feedlots are not built in close proximity to human housing in order to avoid the transfer of
zoonotic diseases,
(c)    feedlots are small and limited to a capacity of 500 head per production cycle in order to avoid
excessive liquid waste buildup and forage requirements,
(d)    all relevant environmental regulations will be complied with in slaughtering, processing and feed
milling enterprises,
(e)    worker safety standards are complied with in processing enterprises,
(f)    environmental monitoring units and budgets for environmental mitigation are in place at all
project management offices and project enterprises, and
(g)    potential (voluntary and involuntary) resettlement and land acquisition measures have been
incorporated into the project, and measures dealing with such events are outlined in the Land
Requisition Report.
Care would also be taken to ensure that cattle are distributed as evenly as possible across project areas,
thereby avoiding waste build up and excessive seasonal demands on local forage resources. Feedlot
surfaces with a capacity of over 300 head per cycle would be paved and provided with drainage,
preventing liquid waste run-off. A full Ennvironmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Report has been
prepared by the EIA Center, China Agriculture University of Beijing in accordance with terms of
reference approved by the Bank. The Report, which has been approved by the Bank, contains guidelines
for the preparation of the environmental impact reports that are to accompany applications for the



Page 19
establishment of feedlots, cattle markets and veterinary service facilities. Based on this Report an
Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan has been prepared and approved by the government and
the Bank.
7. Participatory approach:
The All China Women's Association has participated in establishing participation criteria for project
households, and will continue this task during early implementation. Farmer's associations have
themselves indicated their wishes and needs with regard to cattle raising.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Agencies              Preparation              Implementation         Operation
Beneficiaries/commun  Farmers' Associations    Farmners' Associations   Farmers' Associations
ity groups           (IS, COL)                 (CON and COL)          (COL)
Intermediary NGOs    All China Women's         All China Women's      All China Women's
Federation               Federation             Federation
(CON, COL)               (COL)                  (COL)
Academic institutions   Environmental Impact   Local Environmental    Project recipients
Assessment Center, China  Protection Bureaus    (COL)
Agric. University (CON,   (CON, COL)
_____ ____ ____  COL)
Local government      Bureaus of Animal        Bureaus of Animal      Bureaus of Animal
Husbandry and Finance    Husbandry and Finance  Husbandry and Finance
__ ____________    (IS and CON, COL)       (CON and COL)          (CON and COL)
Other                 Private sector for       Private sector         Private sector
processing investments    (COL)                 (COL)
(CON)                   I
Note: IS - Intermediary, COL - Collaboration, and CON - Control
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability will depend on (a) effective linkages between markets and production and the
effectiveness with which market signals pass from markets to processors through the feedlots to farmers;
(b) increasing demand for quality beef and the ability of the project's processors to tap this market; (c) the
availability of inputs and technical skills to improve breeds and feed; (d) the effective participation of
farmers and processors in technical and producer groups to represent their interests; (e) farmer incomes
that are sufficiently attractive to sustain cattle supplies; (f) strong government support for the institutional
reforms of grading and inspection and for technical support services; (g) satisfactory financial
arrangements for counterpart funding and working capital; and (h) adequate local government support for
road, rail, communications and other infrastructure. These elements have been incorporated in the project
design to ensure the sustainability of the project.



Page 20
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
~~~~~~~~~-                            *
From Outputs to Objective:
Stakeholder selection and/or eligibility  N to M    Monitor closely at early stages of
criteria not satisfactory.                        implementation and redesign eligibility criteria
when necessary.
Government commitment to beef             N       Project benefits related to strengthening
subsector development is weak.                    subsector infrastructure development provides
strong incentive for continued government
support.
Crop residue conversion technologies       N      Close monitoring of establishment of
poorly accepted and utilized.                     demonstration households and quality support
services agency training.
Cattle markets provide producers with     M       Pilot program for market development to be
insufficient incentives to attract them to        reviewed annually and adjusted when needed.
market their cattle.                              Eligibility criteria for market participation
covenanted.
Processors fail to attain quality-based   M       Project to select only enterprises that can meet
processing, driven by expanding market            the listed eligibility criteria.
opportunities for quality beef.
From Components to Output:
Effective technology transfer to           N      Technology transfer proven effective in other
producers.                                        areas.
Sufficient counterpart funds committed.   M       Government of project counties have made
commitment to financial support. Project
counties not providing this support to be
eliminated.
Processor management transformation       M       Eligibility criteria for processors;' commitment
successful.                                       to transform their operations into market-driven
management structure have been covenanted.
Acceptable farmers' risk mitigation.       N      Farners required to join producers association
and form savings pool to cover cattle losses.
Overall Risk Rating:                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
Projects support for farmer participation, service delivery, enterprise operation and the provision of
market information through price signals has been carefully built in. The farmers, enterprise managers
and service providers would all individually play important roles in reducing the risks outlined above.
The use of selection criteria for the participation of enterprises and households is an important factor in
acquiring beneficiaries who will work to reduce risks. Continuous, built-in performance monitoring of
service workers and performance-based employment are important incentives to ensure service quality.
To guard against external risks such as the a decline in beef prices or demand, diversification of markets
is essential and must form an integral part of the project's marketing component. The risk that investment



Page 21
in the cattle subsector will not pay off due to adverse price movements caused if China joins World Trade
Organization (WTO) is very small since China will continue to have comparative advantage in beef
production (and in other labor-intensive, land non-intensive activities such as light manufacturing) for an
extended future period, and this advantage will continue after joining the WTO (Annex 12).
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Several Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) have communicated concerns to the Bank regarding this
project. These concerns cover two areas: (a) increased competition by cattle for grain best used for
human consumption and (b) the health aspects of supporting increasing beef consumption in China. The
Bank's senior management and the TTL have met with the NGOs concerned to discuss these matters.
Grain competition is not a valid issue, as the project's and the government's principal objective is to
develop the cattle subsector through increased feeding of heretofore underutilized crop residues. These
residues, which are plentiful in the cropping areas that are part of the project, are now typically bumed in
the field, creating serious and sustained air pollution health hazards. Small amounts of corn, wheat bran
and oilseed cake - not utilized for human consumption - would be fed to pregnant cows and calves. At
full production, the percentage of feed annually required under the project would only be 8% (122,000
tons) of feed corn, 13% (197,000 tons) of oilseed cake and bran, and 79% (1.2 million tons) of corn stover
and straw. Economic factors further curtail the excessive use of com for cattle feeding, as its opportunity
cost is far too high to render grain feeding profitable.
The public health issue related to beef consumption assumes that beef consumption levels in China are
comparable - and therefore equally potentially harmful - to those in westem countries. In reality, the per
capita annual consumption of beef in the United States has reached 52 kg compared to only 4.4 kg in
China; annual per-capita beef consumption in China is only one-twelfth that in western countries.. Several
factors detract from the health argument. China-raised beef is far leaner (and therefore has a lower fat
content) than westem beef, due to: (a) limited grain feeding; and (b) the use for fattening of intact (i.e.,
non-castrated) males which deposit only limited fat. Beef consumption remains very limited because of
cost, and is vastly overshadowed by pork and poultry consumption. Furthermore, Chinese consumers
have different dietary and exercise habits than westerners; they tend to get far more physical exercise and
eat a nutritionally more varied diet. Finally, the incremental production of project beef would constitute
only three percent of the combined pork and beef production in the project area.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Standard.
2. Other:
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) The provincial governments of Henan and Shanxi would, from their own budgets, continue to support
their indigenous cattle breed improvement programs to enhance commercial cattle production and would
submit their comprehensive programs, together with a time-bound action plan for its implementation, to
the Bankfor review by no later than December 31, 2001 (page 5).
(b) Each project province would submit a program designed to maximize cattle performance through a
comprehensive medium-term cross-breeding strategy, together with a time-bound action plan for its
implementation to the Bank for review by no later than December 31, 2001 (page 5).
(c) Technologies for forage enhancement through crop residue conversion would be made available to
all participating households and feedlots (page 5).



Page 22
(d) All feedlots to be upgraded or expanded under the project would not have a capacity of over 500
head per single production cycle and would follow the environmental guidelines as set forth in the
Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan, dated July 1999, approved by the Bank (page 6J.
(e) Project feedlots, cattle markets and processing plants applying for Bank-financed subloans to
improve or expand their enterprises would have to meet agreed eligibility criteria and comply with the
Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan, dated July 1999 (page 7).
Go Annual research and development, overseas training and study tour plans would be submitted to the
Bank no later than December 1 of each year for prior approval, at least 40% offarmers who received
training each year under the project would' be women and all consultants would be hired in accordance
with the IBRD guidelines on the selections and use of consultants (page 8).
(g) Cost recovery would be establishedfor services receivedfrom the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Stations and AI Stations at levels sufficient to at least cover their operating costs. A schedule offees for
such services together with a time-bound action plan for the introduction of such fees, would be submitted
to the Bankfor review by no later than December 1, 2000 (page 10).
(h) TPAGs would be established by September 1, 2000. PLGs, PMOs and TPAGs would be maintained
throughout the project with terms of reference, composition and resources acceptable to the Bank (page
11).
(i) Subloans would be made for subprojects that are determined, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
the Bank Group, to be technically feasible and economically, financially, and commercially viable (page
12).
O) Revolving funds for household cattle production would be established by PBFs and country BFs in
this case of Hebei Provinces, or their successors with the proceeds recovered from sub-loans. The FBs
would be required to re-lend the recovered' loan proceeds for cattle production, thus ensuring that the
funds will revolve (page 12).
(k) Progress reports would be produced andforwarded to the Bank every six months. A mid-term review
would be undertaken by March 31, 2003 (page 12).
(1) In the event of any resettlement is needed under a subproject, the project province would prepare and
furnish to the Bankfor prior approval a resettlement action plan based on resettlement policies, planning
principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria acceptable to the Bank and as more
particularly set out in the Resettlement Framework Guidelines for Project Implementation (page 18).
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] Engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



Page 23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
(i) OD 4.01 Environmental Assessment
(ii) OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement
(iii) BP 10.02 Financial Management
(iv) OP 11 Procurement
Task Team Leaders:                         Bran deburg
Sector Director: Geoffrey B. Fox ,   71   X
Country Director: Yukon Rua



Page 24
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
China: Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Sector-Related CAS      Sector Indicators::    Sector/Country Reports:    rom   oal to   nk
Goal:                   Consumer-demandi       CAS document no. 16321   Mission):
Increased agriculture   driven beef cattle     (March 18, 1997; progress
sector efficiency in food   improvement for    report May 28, 1998).
production through      quality beef production  Support for integrated
improved natural resource  and marketing.      marketing and increased
utilization.                                   efficiency in livestock
production.
Project Development     Outcome/Impact         Project Reports:         (Objective to Goal):
Objective:              Indicators:
Increase cattle         (a) Number of          (a) Annual household     (a) Improved breeds and
productivity and enhance  households adopting  surveys, using           technologies available to
rural household incomes  improved cattle and   performance indicators.    farmers.
through genetic         new production
improvement, improved   technologies.
marketability, quality
market development, by   (b) Increased         (b) Input/output cost ratio  (b) Availability of crop
means of increased      acceptance of low-cost  reports.                residues and residue
conversion of low-value   crop residue feeding.                         treatment technologies.
crop residues.
(c) Increased volume of  (c) Comparison of cattle   (c) Quality-based cattle
cattle sold through   prices inside and outside    pricing based on established
markets, and prices   project areas.            beef grading system.
received.
(d) Accelerated ma]rket  (d) Ratio of quality cattle  (d) Unrestricted inter-
infrastructure        flowing through markets   provincial and international
development for live    and tonnage of quality  cattle and beef trade;
cattle and beef       cattle purchased by       markets attractive to
products.             processors.               producers.
(e) Sustainable       (e) Project area statistics   (e) Risk/reward ratio
increases in household  and household incomes.    attractive to cattle producers.
incomes.



Page 25
Output from each           Output Indicators:       Project Reports:             (From Outputs to
Component:                                                                       Objective):
(a) More efficient cattle    (al) Increased calf    (a) Producer and feedlot-    Stakeholder selection and/or
performance.               weaning weights           based cattle performance    eligibility criteria were
(a2) Increased average   records.                     satisfactory.
daily gains of feeder
cattle.                                               Government commitment to
(b) Effective technology    (b 1) Producers         (b) Annual producer          beef subsector development
and skills transfer to     satisfaction with         surveys and training        remains strong.
farmers.                   support services.         progress reports.
(b2) Effective and                                    Crop residue conversion
timely farmer training                                technologies widely
programs.                                             accepted and utilized.
(c) Improve support        (c) Improved skills      (c) Annual producer
services delivery, based   development in service   survey on service delivery   Cattle markets provide
on quality assurance.      agencies.                                             producers with sufficient
incentives to attract them to
(d) Commercially viable   (d) High flow-through    (d) Market statistical and    market their cattle.
cattle markets.            in markets and cattle     financial status reports.
marketing on contract.                                Processors strive to attain
(e) Effective, quality-    (e) Cattle price          (e) Price statistical reports.  quality-based processing,
based beef marketing.      information available,                                driven by expanding market
based on grade.                                       opportunities for quality
(f) Profitable beef        (f) Improve quality      (f) Processor financial      beef.
processing.                assurance in meat         status reports, meat
inspection, food safety   inspection reports,
and processing           HACCP status progress
technology.              report.
(g) Risk reduction for     (gl) Availability of      (g) Household surveys to
participating cattle       Social funds              include farmers being
producers.                 established by the        members of the Cattle
Cattle Producers         Producers Association.
Association.
(g2) Producer contracts
with buyers.
Project Components         Inputs (Budget for each  Project Reports:             (Components to Outputs):
and Sub-components         Component):
(see Annex 2 for Project                             Semi-annual progress        Effective technology transfer
Description):                                        reports                     to producers.
Performance indicators
Breed and Feed                                       Disbursement reports        Sufficient counterpart funds
Improvement                        2.00           Annual Audit reports.       committed.
Cattle Production                   132.53
Marketing Linkages                   25.45                                       Processor management
Institutional                        19.88                                       transformation successful.
Strengthening                         0.94
Front-end Feed                      180.80                                       Strong government support
for quality control-based
beef production.
Acceptable farmers' risk
________________________  ______________________   _________________________  m itigation.



Page 26
Annex 2
China Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Project Description
1.    Project Activities Summary. The Project would support the government's policy of developing
its beef cattle subsector in response to the emerging market demand for quality beef. The project would
have a strong commercial marketing orientation through the production, processing and marketing of
quality beef. The project would involve the four project provinces of Henan, Hebei, Anhui and Shanxi.
These provinces have a combined population equivalent to that of the United States. In total, 15
prefectures, 73 counties and 326 townships would be directly involved, with a total of 138,488
participating rural households. The projecit would be implemented under the following components:
A. Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement Component ($2.00 million)
Breed Improvement
Feed Improvement
B. Cattle Production ($132.53 million)
Household Cow-Calf Production
Household Cattle Fattening
Feedlot Production
C. Marketing Development Component ($25.45 million)
Live Cattle Markets
Beef Market Linkages
-Slaughterhouse Upgrading
-Market Information Systenn
-Beef Grading, Quality Assurance and Meat Inspection
-HACCP (Hazard Analysis; Critical Control Point)
D. Institutional Strengthening Component ($19.88 million)
Animal Husbandry Bureau Strengthbening
Training
Research and Development
Strengthening of PMOs
The possibility exists of parallel bilateral assistance which would provide supplemental training and TA
of project activities similar to those supported by the project.
2.    The above-listed activities would be implemented as an integrated cattle production system,
supported by infrastructure development, ranging from breed improvement through production,
processing and marketing. The Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement Component would ensure a supply
of cattle of improved genetic quality for breeding and fattening. Participating provincial breeding centers
would be responsible for breeding programs and strategies, cattle semen distribution, and breeding cow
performance evaluation at the household level. Cattle feeding would be heavily dependent on the
utilization of crop residues and oilseed cakes, with only small amounts of corn concentrate (8% of total
feed quantity) for feeding late-pregnant and lactating cows and young calves. Young cattle produced by
cow-calf raising households under the Cattle Production Component would ensure that adequate cattle
supplies were available for project-supported slaughtering, processing and marketing. The Marketing
Linkages Component would support the establishment of commercial live cattle markets, assist in
upgrading cattle slaughtering and beef processing plants, and support food safety, beef grading, quality
assurance and meat inspection programs. The Institutional Strengthening Component would support
veterinary, extension and Al support services to be delivered to the project by the Provincial Animal



Page 27
Husbandry Bureaus, provide training, support research and development and support project management
through strengthening the Project Management Offices.
A. BREED AND FEED IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT ($2.00 MILLION)
3.    This component would provide support for cattle breed upgrading and cattle nutrition improving
through the production of vitamin-mineral blocks. It would also address the issues of indigenous cattle
and cross-breeding strategies.
(a) Breed Improvement ($1.35 million)
4.    This sub-component would support the upgrading and expansion of bull holding facilities and the
importation of breeding bulls. All four project provinces have established provincial breeding centers in
the project area. The Hebei and Shanxi centers, which have received financial and technical support from
bilateral assistance, are progressing well. These two stations will continue to provide services to farmers,
both in and outside the project areas in their respective provinces. The Henan and Anhui Breeding
centers would rehabilitate and expand their bull holding facilities, improve existing frozen semen
technologies, in order to attain the standards of the Hebei and Shanxi breeding centers. Anhui would also
import breeding bulls. Specific details are provided in Table 2.1.
5.    Henan Provincial Cattle Breeding Center. At this center the project would support the
expansion of bull housing facilities, equipment for frozen semen production and embryo transfer,
facilities for forage production and storage, the veterinary clinic, power and transportation equipment,
environmental protection facilities, and training. At full production in 2003, the Center would produce an
estimated 1.96 million doses of semen from 72 existing and imported stud bulls, sell 24 performance-
tested bulls and 14 heifers per year, and sell 200 frozen embryos. In Henan, a relatively low 15% of all
cows are currently covered by Al, requiring 2.05 million doses of frozen semen per year. With a project
target of increasing the insemination rate to 40% of breeding cows, a total of 5 million doses of semen
would be required. This would require an increase from 112 bulls to 300 bulls. These bulls would be
purchased outside the project and housed in the project-supported expanded holding facilities of the
Center.
6.    Anhui Provincial Cattle Breeding Center. This center would utilize project funds for the
upgrading and expansion of bull holding facilities and the importation of 20 breeding bulls. At full
production with 70 stud bulls, it would sell 1.2 million straws of semen, 10 performance-tested breeding
bulls and surplus liquid nitrogen. Anhui aims to cover 56% of all breeding cows in the province by Al
within five years of the onset of implementation, which would require 2.4 million doses of semen. This
target can be met with the additional semen-production capacity supported by the project.



Page 28
Table 2.1 - Breed Improvement Sub-component
Province       Breed Improvemeni Program
Henan          PY] to mid-PY2:
Expansion of Provincial Cattle Breeding Center through:
--Construction of additional bull holding facilities.
--Addition of straw semeni freezing facility
--Establishment of embry o transfer unit
--Institution of household breeding cow selection programs
--Upgrading of existing indigenous Nanyang cattle herd
--Training and TA
Activity          FYI    FY2        FY3        FY4        FY5
Holding facilities  __-
Semen freezing facility
Embryo transfer unit
Nanyang upgrading program
Household cow selection
Training and TA
Anhui          PYI to mid-pY2:
Expansion of Provincial Cattle Breeding Center through:
--Improvement and expansion of bull holding facilities
--Construction of new liquid nitrogen plant
--Importation of 20 breeding bulls
--Institution of household breeding cow selection programs
--Training and TA
Activity         FY I     FY2      FY3        FY4       FY5
Holding facilities
Liquid Nitrogen plant
Bull procurement
Household cow selection
Training and TA
7.     Operation of Breeding Centers. Ihe four breeding centers would be able to supply sufficient
amounts of cattle semen to adequately support the breed improvement programs under the project. The
project provinces owning the breeding centers would have their centers operate on a fee-for-service basis
in order to generate sufficient revenues to support their operating costs. This would include non-
subsidized charges for semen distributed to lower-level Al stations, breeding stock, frozen embryos and
consulting services.  In addition, each center will take the lead in developing and implementing an
extension program to provide beef cattle-producing households with training and extension input related
to beef cow performance monitoring and recording. This would be accomplished in collaboration with
existing extension workers and Al technicians of the AHB, who would be trained by the centers.
8.     The breeding centers are owned and managed by the provincial and prefectural staffs of the
Provincial Animal Husbandry Bureaus, which control the production and distribution of frozen bull
semen within their provinces and also sell surplus frozen semen to other provinces. Station managers
would report on project management issues to their local PMOs and on technical issues to the
Departments of Agriculture and the provincial AHBs.  Transfer of semen and liquid nitrogen from
breeding centers to counties and townships is the responsibility of each center and of the county AHBs
supplying their township Al stations. Quality assurance of the work carried out by county and township
inseminators is the responsibility of Al station personnel at the prefecture and county levels, respectively.
Responsibility for organizing and maintaining household-based cow performance evaluation programs
lies primarily with inseminators, supported by demonstration households, and supervised by county AHB
staff.
9.     Cross-breeding Strategy Development.  A medium-term  cross-breeding strategy would be
developed by each province and would be firnished to the Bank no later than December 31, 2001 for its
review. This strategy would take into accounat the optimal utilization of the local Yellow Cattle breed as
female foundation stock, and the use of exotic (imported) beef cattle breeds. It would be market driven,



Page 29
so that the carcass qualities of the cross-breed end product to be produced under the project would be in
continuous demand by processors and other beef buyers. The project would support each project
province, through TA and training, in the development of a comprehensive, medium-term breed
improvement cross-breeding strategy
10.   Indigenous Breeds. Henan and Shanxi provinces would, from their own budgets, continue to
support their indigenous cattle breed improvement programs. This activity is important in that it is aimed
to balance the local gene pool represented by indigenous cattle breeds with the insertion and cross-
breeding of imported cattle breeds, each province is committed to undertake two important activities
under the Project. These include (a) upgrading existing indigenous cattle breed(s) to serve as a gene pool
from which to develop suitable cross-breeds, and (b) the development of a cross-breeding strategy to
produce stock adapted to local conditions. These objectives are already being pursued with non-project
funds, but the project would support training and TA to ensure that indigenous upgrading programs would
be in line with the cross-breeding strategies to be undertaken and that an adequate gene pool supply is
ensured. Henan and Shanxi agreed to furnish the programs to the Bank for its review by no later than
December 31, 2001.
(b) Feed Improvement ($0.65 million)
11.   Shanxi Mineral Block Plant. The Cattle Industry Services Center (CISC) under the Shanxi
Provincial AHB wants to introduce mineral blocks into the cattle production areas, but these are not
currently available within the province. Some salt licks are manufactured at a plant in Mongolia and are
sold in Shanxi, but the Bureau wishes to research various mineral formulations for beef cattle production.
The project would finance the establishment of a small, new pilot-scale 1.5 t/h block-making facility for
testing the application of this feed supplement. The production facility would comprise a material store, a
processing mill, a boiler room, a laboratory, an office and a toilet. Equipment under the project would be
limited to the power, heating and water supply systems at the plant, the 1.5 t/h mineral block plant and a
weigh bridge. The offices would be provided with office equipment, a computer and internal quality control
facilities. The project would provide 2 trucks and 1 man-month of local training At full production, the
plant would produce 3,000 t/year of mineral blocks. Considerable marketing would be required for this
new product, veterinary stations, market offices and feed mills would participate as marketing outlets.
Boiler emissions would have to be controlled to levels mandated by environmental regulation. Total cost
is estimated at $653,000.
12.   Table 2.2 indicates the phasing and production output of the vitamin-mineral block plant
throughout the project's life span.
Table 2.2 - Phasing of Mineral Block Production Plant
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Total Output at
Full Production
Cattle Vitamin Mineral     0    1,000   2,500    3,000   3,000  3,000 tons of
Block Production                                                 cattle mineral
blocks



Page 30
B. CATTLE PRODUCTION COMPONENT ($132.53 MILLION)
13.   This component is divided into three sub-components:
(a)  Household Cow-Calf Production - 128,156 households
(b)  Household-Based Cattle Fattening 10,332 households
(c)  Feedlot Production - 130 feedlots
14.   A cattle flow diagram for the Proj ect is presented in Table 2.3:
Table 2.3 - Caftle Flow Diagrami from Raising to Processing (at Full Production)
Household (11)   Heifer        Bull                       Cattle         Beef
Production       Calves        Calves       Feedlots      Markets        Processors
(a) Cow-calf     Heifer calves  Bull calves   Finished in   To be sold in   Purchased by
production:      weaned        Weaned        130 feedlots  existing      project
per year:    Per year:                  markets        slaughter
128,156                                                   including 9    houses and
Households        142,596      142,596       53,730       pilot project    processors:
raising per year    head       head         head          markets
110,000 head
285,192                                     at 90%        92,596 Heifers  of
male and female                End use:     feedlot       to be sold to    project cattle
calves                         To be        capacity      farmers inside
fattened by               and outside
(ave. 2.1                       HHs cr in    End use:     project
head/HH/yr)                    feedlots      Slaughter
and
processing
(b) Fattening HHs: Retained                               Finished cattle: Processors to
within                                  110,000 head   convert
10,332 HHs       project as                              to project      110,000
Fattening per year  Replacement                           processors     project cattle
76,469           heifers:                                 32,596 head    into 23,200
male cattle                                               sold to other   tons of
(ave. 7.4         50,000                                  processors     dressed beef
head/HH/yr)      head                                     outside the    and beef
to be purchased                                           project        products
from cow-calf hhs
(a) Household Cow-Calf Production Sub.-Component ($93.34 million)
15.   This major production sub-component aims to assist 128,158 households in cow-calf raising to
achieve project self sufficiency in young stock supplies. The number of households would vary by
province, depending on the production models and the number of existing breeding cows. In Hebei, there
would be 32,526 households adopting a one cow/one calf model. In Anhui, there would be 39,280
household adopting a one cow/two calves model, a cow for breeding and two purchased calves for
fattening. In Henan and Shanxi, there would be 36,350 households adopting a 2 cows/2 calves model. In
all cow/calf models, the project households would purchase breeding cows, use Al services to obtain
improved cross-bred calves, manage the breeding cows, fatten their calves using nutritionally enhanced
ammoniated straw, and sell yearlings to either fattening households, feedlots or cattle markets.



Page 31
16.   In Shanxi, 20,000 households (of which 2,000 households are for demonstration) already have
breeding cows so under the project, they would improve productivity of cattle by using improved feed
and better production technology to increase feed and meat conversion rate and to improve quality of
cattle.
17.   The project would support participating households by providing sub-loans for the purchase of
breeding cows, cattle production equipment, and urea and plastic film for straw ammoniation. Project
cattle feeding would be based on nutritionally enhanced crop byproducts and other agricultural wastes,
which would be ensilaged or ammoniated with urea (to increase nitrogen content for conversion into
protein), in silo pits covered by agricultural plastic. Support services (Al and veterinary services, to be
financed under the Infrastructure Strengthening Component) would be available to production households
at the regular prices charged by the stations. To ensure a sustainable supply of superior young cattle in
each project province, adequate numbers of cow-calf raising households would be recruited and induced
to remain in the project so that they would not fall back on breeding cows of unknown genetic
composition. Household participation would be phased to allow for the gradual procurement and
availability of breeding cattle, synchronized to parallel developments of support services, farner training
in forage preparation technology and Al services. Household phasing is presented in Table 2.4.
(b) Household-Based Cattle Fattening Sub-component ($21.96 million)
18.   This sub-component would support 10,322 households in their production of adequate supplies of
crop by-products to set up small livestock fattening enterprises to enhance their incomes from cattle
fattening. Fattening models would vary from one to three fattening cycles per year. These households
would purchase yearlings from the cow-calf households and raise them for almost a year for sale to
processing plants or cattle markets. The project would support participating households by financing the
first batch of fattening cattle, the construction of cattle sheds, production equipment, and forage storage
facilities. Feeding regimes would be based on maximizing the utilization of ammoniated or ensilaged
crop residues, fortified with oilseed cake.
(c) Small Scale Feedlot Production Sub-Component ($17.23 million)
19.   This sub-component would be instrumental in providing linkages between cattle production and
cattle markets and processors. Feedlots would also provide an important market channel for absorbing
young stock sold by households and would sell finished cattle to beef processors. The project would
provide financial support to 130 existing small feedlots for expansion and/or upgrading. These include
51 feedlots in Henan, 50 in Hebei, 17 in Anhui, and 12 in Shanxi. Feedlot capacity is assumed at 90%.
Feedlots would be activated and phased in accordance with increasing cattle supplies.  Feedlot
establishment is indicated in Table 2.4. Individuals, registered collectives or registered enterprises may
own feedlots. The capacity of the feedlots would be expanded in accordance to proximity to and
availability of project cattle. This component of the project has been designed to mitigate general
environmental impact potentials in several ways, as follows: (a) participation is restricted to existing
small scale feedlot operations, thus providing an opportunity to upgrade both livelihoods and
environmental standards; (b) having a relatively small capacity of 100-500 head per production cycle of
100-180 days; (c) utilizing treated crop residues and substitution of feed grains with rapeseed or
cottonseed cake; and (d) the generation of large amounts of valuable organic fertilizer in the form of
manure. Households joining together to participate small scale feedlotting will be required to submit
certain environmental information as part of their application. Feedlot application specifications were
developed on the basis of environmental studies carried out as part of project preparation activities.
These applications will be reviewed by EPB staff on behalf of the relevant PMOs for consistency with the
general environmental objectives set down in Annex 13. Applications which do not satisfy these
specifications will not be approved.



Page 32
Table 2.4 - Phasing of Household and Feedlot Cattle Production
Cattle Production    Unit    Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4          Total
Component
1. Households        Total    43,933    58,286    24,280     1,630     128,156
(Cow-calf)
Anhui                 No.      8,220    18,600    10,830     1,630      39,280
Hebei                         16,263    16,263                          32,526
Henan                          9,450     9,450     9,450                28,350
Shanxi                        10,000    14,000     4,000                28,000
2. Households        Total     2,460     2,666     3,109     2,153      10,411
(fattening)
Anhui                 No.        106       312      309       103         830
Hebei                          1,389     1,390                           2,779
Henan                            900       900      900                  2,700
Shanxi                                             2,000     2,000       4,000
3. Feedlots          Total        30        90        10        0         130
Anhui                 No.          4         9        4                    17
200 head                          4         8         4                    16
400 head                                                                    0
500 head                                    I                               I
Hebei                 No.         27        23                             50
100 head                         14        13                             27
300 head                          9        10                              19
500 head                          4                                         4
Henan
lOOhead               No.    _             51                              51
Shanxi
|500head              No.    _              6         6                    12
20.     County-level All China Women's Federation (ACWF) units would assist county AHBs and
PMOs in selecting suitable households for participation in the project. The county AHBs would provide
technical services to farmers. The county PMOs, in cooperation with the county AHBs and Bureaus of
Finance, would draw up contracts (based on the standard approved contract agreed during negotiations)
which would outline the functions and responsibilities of the parties concerned, the investments required,
the loan amounts and the repayment schedules. These contracts would be signed by project farmers in
order to receive sub-loans from the project. Feedlots would have to meet eligibility criteria to participate
in the project.
21.    The purchase of cattle and small livestock materials and equipment could be done in two ways:
(a) the County AHBs would procure cattle and production materials and distribute them to participating
farmers or (b) farmers, through cattle producer groups, would select their breeding and fattening cattle
and required production equipment, based! on minimum quality standards, with advice from the AHBs,
purchase the goods and then submit the receipts to the township Bureau of Finance to be disbursed from
Bank funds allocated for that purpose. The funds to be disbursed would depend on farmer contracts. In
cases where the AHBs would purchase cattle and production inputs for the farmers, the disbursement
would subject to the AHBs showing that they had received three quotations and had receipts for the final
purchase. The costs would be charged to farmers according to their contracts.
22.   At the farmer level, cattle producer groups would be formed to represent the interests of farmers
in working with the technical bureaus, feecilots and processors. Farmers may also want to purchase and
sell cattle together as a group. The members of the cattle producer groups would have the opportunity to
contribute to an insurance fund, which would for pay out in the case of cattle death.



Page 33
C. MARKET DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT ($25.45 MILLION)
23.   This component aims to provide support to the development of cattle and beef markets by
supporting two major infrastructure investments, as follows:
(a)    Live Cattle Markets
(b)    Beef Market Linkages
(i) Slaughterhouse Upgrading
(ii) Market Information System
(iii) Beef Grading, Quality Assurance and Meat Inspection
(iv) HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point) or ISO-9002
(a) Live Cattle Markets ($1.68 million)
24.   This sub-component aims to develop a pilot program for live cattle markets, which would be
centers for trade and market information as well as places to access technical knowledge and veterinary
services. The project would assist the AHB bureaus to upgrade a small number of existing cattle markets
in project provinces; two markets in Anhui, and one each in Henan and Hebei, and five in Sbanxi. The
impact of these markets would be assessed at the midterm review, and 10 additional markets would then
be funded, where feasible. Investments at each livestock market would include the following:
a)   A market shed to house an office, a veterinary room and a sales shed for simple items such
as veterinary medicines and feeds. This facility would also act as an informnation point for
farmers, with posters and leaflets advertising veterinary and farming products and giving
advice on animal husbandry.  In areas where livestock selling price information is
available, this would also be displayed on a notice board.
b)   A simple, open sided, cattle shed would be constructed along one side of the market square
with water troughs, rails and feed bins for cattle.
c)   A weigh scale with a print-out facility would be provided for voluntary use by farmers and
dealers.
d)   The cattle trading area at the center of the market square would be laid with stone or cinder
block to provide a firm base that could, in the future, be cemented over. In the case of the
two Anhui livestock markets, the cattle trading area would be covered.
e)  Infrastructure would be provided in the form of water supply from a well or a city main,
power supply via a transformer, and storm drainage channels. For markets with a daily
capacity of more than 500 head of cattle, a secondary waste water treatment facility or a
septic tank would be constructed. A manure pit would be constructed in which to collect,
and sell, accumulated manure to farmers.
25.   The design of the markets has been completed. The project would finance civil works, office
construction, weighing scales, water and power supply, drainage channels, septic tank, feed storage,
paved standing areas and holding stations. Guidelines for market management would be provided, and
information on project cattle would be collected as part of a cattle-tracing program. The establishment of
cattle markets is presented in Table 2.5. The environmental performance of the four markets to be initially
upgraded will be monitored and the results used to determine: (a) whether performance has been of an
adequate standard to justify further investments; and/or (b) to identify the need for modification of the
environmental control concepts.



Page 34
Table 2.5 - Pilot Cattle Market Establishment by Province
Province          Henan      Anhui       Shanxi       Hebei
Project Year      1 2  3   1  2   3   1   2  3   1  2   3
Pilot markets     1      (3) 2           1            1
Simple upgrading                         4      (7)
Numbers in brackets denote fuiture upgrading following MTR in PY3.
(b) Beef Market Linkages Development ($23.77 million)
26.   This sub-component is designed to ensure that marketing linkages exist between high-grade cattle
production and markets for good quality beef products. These linkages are important for the following
reasons:
*    the traditional backyard slaughter cif project cattle would prevent marketing to the higher quality
markets,
project farmers would not receive premium prices for their cattle, unless they are sold to
processors with access to quality markets, or for export to Hong Kong, or to processors with
adequate facilities, and
*    the trading of project cattle through markets would generate only limited sales to buyers interested
in quality cattle. At least 50 percent of project cattle would therefore be sold to project processors,
with the balance sold through markets.
This sub-component would include:
(i)    Cattle Slaughtering and Processing. This sub-component would provide key linkages
between production and markets by upgrading the capacity of selected existing
operations to produce quality beef of specified grades on delivery schedules required by
the market. This would be achieved through integrated planning and management by
processing facilities, feedlots and farmers. Processors producing for supermarkets and
other customers would, through their purchasing and storage activities, match supply and
demand on a year-around basis. By doing so they would send essential signals to farmers
and feedlots about the type and quantity of beef required, which would result in a market
response characterized by the production of quality cattle, the utilization of the grading
standards, and product presentation and packaging to the specifications of customers.
There are a number of slaughterhouses and meat processors operating in the public and
private sectors in each of the project provinces, but most of these are in a run-down
condition that would be unable to meet any form of sanitary standard. They would need
to be substantially upgraded in order to sell into the higher quality domestic or export
meat markets and to come into compliance with environmental standards as required.
Shanxi Province has no modenm slaughterhouse at all, and all project cattle would need to
be shipped out of the province unless the project invests in upgrading the existing Lunda
facility. Hebei Province has several modem slaughterhouses that will be linked to the
project by investment in feedlots and training, but need to increase the processing
capacity for the Northeast of the province. Anhui Province has one of the largest meat
processing companies in C'hina, but the slaughterhouse was constructed in 1986 and
needs a general upgrade to bring it to modem sanitary standards. Henan Province has a
small plant at Teng He that needs upgrading. This plant would be linked to the project
with investment in equipment and a general upgrade of the buildings to bring them to
modem sanitary standards. The project would invest in these selected facilities to ensure
adequate processing for imiproved project cattle.



Page 35
The project would assist the construction and upgrading of slaughterhouses and
development of sanitary cattle slaughtering facilities by financing the provision or
upgrade of equipment and facilities. The project would finance the procurement of
processing equipment, workshops, chilling, cutting, quick freezing and cold storage
facilities as necessary for the slaughterhouses to meet modem sanitary standards and to
expand their operations. This would enable them convert high grade project cattle to all
grades of high quality beef. Regarding pollution control, four of the five plants already
have waste water pollution control systems installed and are operating in compliance with
relevant regulations. One of these (Huaxing in Hebei) would be constructed under the
project and the other treatment plants would require augmentation to handle additional
flows. The plant which is presently operating out of compliance (Yumei Food Group in
Anhui) would require investments in waste water treatment to rectify this situation.
There are several different brands of very effective package biological treatment plants
available in China which are widely used in the meat processing sector and permit full
compliance with government waste pollution regulations even under seasonal operating
conditions as experienced in many slaughterhouses. Commercial and technical training
would be provided for management, workers and staff. Training and technical assistance
would be provided to the slaughterhouses in cattle grading, plant hygiene, beef grading,
meat inspection and marketing. The project will also indirectly induce improvement in
non-project slaughterhouses by providing training to selected relatively high-quality
slaughterhouses outside the project and encouraging them to invest in project feedlots.
The phasing and start-up production of participating processing enterprises are outlined in Table 2.6:
Table 2.6 - Participating Processing Enterprises
Output per Year (Hd)                    Total Investment
A. Bank-Supported   Present    PYl    PY2           PY3      PY4       PY5  US$ million
Processors
Hebei Province
Huaxing                     0        0        0    7,500   30,000   30,000  $8.68
Shanxi Province
Lunda Meat Co.           5,000       0    7,500   22,500   30,000   30,000  $4.67 slaughter line,
packing line,
equipment
Henan Province
Tang He Meat            23,800       0        0    2,500   10,000    10,000  $1.60 equipment
Zhoukou Meat Co.        30,000       0    5,000    5,000   20,000   20,000  $4.31 equipment
Anhui Province
Yumei Food Group        53,000       0        0    5,000   20,000   20,000  $4.51 upgrading,
equipment, effluent
__ _ _ _ plant
Cumulative Demand    111,800   111,800  124,300  154,300  221,800  221,800  Total $23.77
(hd) A



Page 36
B. Non-           Present       PY1      PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5  Total Investment
Supported
Processors
Hebei Province
Tong Da Slaughter     1,500        0    1,500    2,000    2,000    2,000  Feedlot, training
Fu Hua Slaughter      2,000        0    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000  Feedlot training
Shanxi Province
Zhong Fu Meat Co.     5,000        0    5,000    10,000   15,000    15,000  Training
Cumulative            8,500    8,500    17,000   22,500   27,500   27,500
Demand (hd) B
Cum. Demand          90,300   120,300  I[26,300  171,800  229,300  229,300
A+B__                             _     __   _ _  _   _
\1 - Cattle Requirements directly due to Bank support. Annual increases are best estimates.
\2- A-receive major Bank financing - includes constniction, equipment. B - Participating - minor Bank financing
for feedlot linkages, grading, quality assurance and commercial training.
(ii)    Market Information System. The provision of cattle prices and trading information to
farmers, processors, feedlots and market managers is of great importance in the
successful marketing of cattle and beef products. The information collection system
would be developed to collect market information and feed it back to cattle markets,
feedlots, processors, local AHBs and farmers.
(iii)   Beef Grading, Beef Quality Assurance and Meat Inspection System. Beef grading
links the quality of beef to tlie quality of cattle. It would provide a clear signal of market
value of meat to the producer of livestock. Presently, beef grading in China is entirelyad
hoc and is based on the subjective evaluation of beef between beef buyers and sellers. It
is critical that a national beef grading system be developed by all industry stakeholders.
One grading system would be used for both national and international markets. It would
be reliable and comprehensive, covering all types and specifications of beef. The central
government is working on developing a national grading system and technical assistance
for this effort would be provided under the project.
Beef Quality Assurance. Participating beef slaughtering and processing plants would
work, using their own resouirces, toward achieving the HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point) or ISO-9002 best-practices level. This includes all aspects of enterprise
operations and management, including plant hygiene, production flow, management,
quality monitoring and evaluation, workers' training and working practices, and business
practices. The Bank would finance any equipment necessary to achieve HACCP/
ISO-9002 status. Bilateral program support, if available, would provide additional
training and technical assistance required to reach this level, to strengthen enterprise
capabilities in this area.
Upgrading of Meat Inspection Services. Beef grading and beef quality are closely linked
and is therefore essential thet the quality of meat handling, storage and transportation be
improved simultaneously with the introduction of improved meat inspection. It is
essential that meat inspection controls be implemented and enforced. In-house project-
financed technical training in quality control, product handling, business management
and marketing, as well as study tours would enforce quality control and the application of
best practices in processing and management. Local inspectors would be audited by
provincial and national supervisors. The project would finance the training of plant
workers, meat inspectors and provincial staff and provide such training on a continuous



Page 37
basis. Project beef-processing enterprises would themselves identify budgets to support
the advertising of their fresh and processed beef products. Brand names established
would be used for advertising.  Each project-supported slaughter house or beef
processing enterprise would have an in-house environmental monitoring unit.
(iv)   HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point). Several slaughterhouses in China
that are owned or operated by international meat companies are using HACCP systems to
minimise the risk of meat contamination, and SGS, an international inspection agency
that carries out plant inspection for international clients, has an office in Shanghai.
Moving to HACCP systems would be a natural progression for project processors when
their clients upgrade their meat specifications to include HACCP controls, which will
probably happen within three to five years. In the meantime a meaningful Quality
Assurance (QA) programme would be adequate linked to the new national grading
standards that are currently being developed. Each plant would also work towards
ISO-9002 registration as this is recognised throughout China as a suitable standard for
food processors. Zhoukou Bangjie Meat Co., a project participant, is already registered
as ISO-9002.
Purchase of Project Cattle
27.   The new slaughterhouse at Huaxing (Hebei province) and the existing Lunda (Shanxi province)
enterprise would both purchase their full annual requirement of cattle from the project as their main
product would be fresh chilled or frozen beef. Lunda would process the trim and Grade-C beef into meat
products, but Huaxing would sell these cuts to other processors.
28.   The existing slaughterhouses at Tang He and Yumei would purchase a proportion of their cattle
from the project. None of the existing project slaughterhouses would change over to the use of high
quality project cattle only, as they need to service their existing customers for other grades of meat. Meat
paste, meat pate and some sausages and cooked meats are adequately served by the existing lower beef
quality which produces a low price product.
Table 2.7 - Cattle Processors Intake by Project Year
Project Cattle Bought by Project-Linked Slaughterhouses
Project Cattle Intake/Year
Total          PY1      PY2       PY3        PY4       PYS
Slaughterhouse             Slaughter
Capacity hfy
- Hebei Huaxing                 30,000       0        0     7,500     30,000    30,000
- Shanxi Lunda Meat Co.         30,000       0    7,500    22,500     30,000    30,000
- Henan Zhoukou Bangjie         50,000       0        0     5,000     20,000    20,000
Meat Co.
- Henan Tang He Meat Co.        25,000       0        0     2,500     10,000     10,000
- Anhui Yumei Meat Co.          55,000       0        0     5,000     20,000    20,000
Total project cattle intake per  190,000     0   7,500    42,500    110,000    110,000
year                      I_____I_____I_____ I_____ I__
Note: Current aggregate throughput at these plants is about 80,000 head per year.
Meat Grades and Volumes
29.   Project cattle will, primarily, be bought for the expanding high end market, and slaughtering is
projected to commence in PY2 with 7,500 head (about 5% of total slaughter at the project plants) and
expand to 110,000 head in PY5 (about 75% of the total slaughter volume at the project plants). This
would produce an estimated 23,000 tons of meat of all grades from high grade cattle put through by
project processors by PY5.



Page 38
Meat Yield at Slaughter
30.    The meat yield from local cattle in the project area is currently about 37% of liveweight on a
carcass weight of 300 to 400kg, and this is projected to improve for the higher quality cattle produced
under the project to about 40-42% of liveweight of 450 to 500kg. The top grade cuts that can be sold into
the higher grade meat markets are tenderloin, rib-eye and strip-loin. These are about 8.7% of the carcass
weight or 5.2% of liveweight. The followiing table details the expected yield % from the improved cattle
that have been used in the financial analysis of the slaughterhouses. Both the yield and prices are
conservative and will probably reach higher levels for the high quality cattle designed for the project. All
project cattle are unlikely to reach this stanclard, however, so these figures are realistic.
Table 2.8 - Meat Yield fromn Improved Cattle of 500 kg Average Weight
Percent of                Selling Price   Cost Recovery Y
Live Weight       kg      Y/t
Meat
Super cuts A         5.20          26.0       40,000            1,040
SupercutsB          18.32          91.7       17,000            1,558
Super cuts C        15.84          79.2       13,000            1,030
Trim                 1.65           8.3        6,000               50
Total meat          41.00         205.0                         3,677
Offal
Head                 2.30          11.5        4,000               46
Foot                 2.25          11.3         4,000              45
Tail                 0.15           0.8       22,000               17
Red offal            2.38          11.9        4,000               48
White offal          5.57          27.9        12,000             334
Fat                  5.00          25.0         2,000              50
Blood                3.00          15.0          200                3
Glands               0.60           3.0         2,000               6
Waste               14.85          74.3            0                0
Total offal         36.00         180.0                           548
Bone                13.00          65.0         2,000             130
Hide                10.00          50.0          450              450
Totals             100.00         500.0                         4,806
Note:
The above meat yield (41 %) is conservative by international standards
The above prices are also conservative:
- Price of super-cuts-A are reported by meat traders to be Y40-42/kg.
- Cost recovery from offal is reported by processors to be Y550-600/head
The Meat Market
31.    Studies have been carried out by NOF and the Bank on the demand for meat by restaurants,
hotels and supermarkets, and intemational and national meat producers, meat processors and traders. A
clear pattem of market expansion emergecl for good quality beef in China, with the potential for rapid
growth in several areas of the industry. The beef market is stratified by the requirements of the various
buyers:



Page 39
(a)   Imported choice cuts. Top class fine food restaurants in hotels buy the best cuts of top
grade grain fed beef imported from the USA and Canada. The project will not try to
compete with this trade as the project cattle will be roughage fed, and there is no
possibility of matching the tender meat produced from grain fed cattle.
(b)    Good class restaurants. High class restaurants in the metropolitan centres use imported
grass fed beef for the premium dishes, and locally produced best cuts for the traditional
Chinese dishes. In smaller restaurants local beef is used for all menus, with selection of
choice cuts such as tenderloin, for soft beef dishes. There are a vast number of these
restaurants throughout China, and this is an area where improved project cattle will be
able to compete and where market share can be gained.
(c)    Supermarkets. Fresh chilled beef has been sold in supermarkets in Beijing and Shanghai
for about two years, and the trade has expanded steadily. This market is projected to
continue to expand rapidly in the next five years, if the same expansion pattern of Korea,
Taiwan and Japan is followed in China. This is an area where the project cattle have an
advantage over imported meat, as the grades are roughly equivalent, prices are
competitive, and transport and tariffs are lower.
(d)    Exports. Hong Kong is also accepting more frozen meat than in earlier years. The
number of live cattle exported to Hong Kong is decreasing, while meat exports are
increasing. One of the slaughterhouses that would be upgraded under the project is
currently exporting to the Middle-East, and this trade is expanding.
(e)    Burger production. The trimmings and lowest grade cuts from improved project cattle
will find an expanding market with 'burger' manufacturers. International burger chains
have the expectation and potential to increase their restaurants 10 fold in the next 10
years, with equivalent increased ground beef requirements. About 40% of ground beef is
currently imported, and this is an area where project beef should have a growing demand.
32.    The above noted findings indicate is that there is a market for every grade of meat from the
improved project cattle, providing they are slaughtered in facilities that have good quality
assurance programmes and acceptable sanitary standards. The carcasses need to be accurately
graded to the clients' specifications to ensure that the resulting beef meets clients' requirements. Each
component part of the improved cattle, thus, has a clearly identifiable market.
33.    The sale of improved project cattle into these markets can only be achieved by slaughtering the
project cattle in modem, clean slaughterhouses. The appraisal mission, therefore, assisted the provincial
teams to select suitable slaughterhouses in each province for upgrading of the buildings and equipment
and to identify needs in training the plant personnel in carcass ageing, meat cutting and grading
techniques.
D. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT ($20.33 MILLION)
34.   This component would provide support for:
(a)    Strengthening of the Bureaus of Animal Husbandry (AHBs) to efficiently provide
new and better cattle production-related support services to farmers. Project activities
would include:
(i)    Veterinary Services. The expansion and upgrading of veterinary services at
various local government levels by providing support to animal husbandry and
veterinary stations,



Page 40
(ii)    Provincial Animal Husbandry Veterinary Service Stations. Rehabilitation and
expansion of cattle service stations,
(iii)    Artificial Insemination (AI) Services. The expansion of Al service stations,
(iv)   Cattle Recording and Tracking System. The development of a cattle recording
system, with information on breed, feed, age and health coded on ear-tags, and
(v)    Beef Pricing System. The introduction of a quality-based differential beef pricing
system to serve as an incentive scheme for household cattle producers to produce
improved cattle.
(b)    Training to participating hcuseholds, AHB support services personnel, breeding station
staff, project management staff, feedlot managers, and meat inspectors,
(c)    Research and Development.  Each project province would finance research and
development programs related to cattle production using govemment counterpart funds.
Research and Development would be carried out by its agricultural university, academy
of agricultural science or other research institution, support R&D related to cattle
production. R&D topics would include: genetic improvement, feeds and forages, feedlot
performance, reproductive efficiency, and cross-breeding.
(d)    Strengthen Project Management Offices by upgrading equipment, facilities and
providing technical assistant and training.
35.    A more detailed description of the above listed activities is provided below.
(a) Strengthening of the Bureaus of Animal Husbandry (AHBs). As a general principle, the project
would not contribute to adding to already existing over-capacity in any form, but would instead support
the upgrading or expansion of existing facilities in the face of needed capacity. A similar policy would be
adopted for equipment procurement. The Al4HBs are in charge of delivering veterinary services and
therefore play a fundamental role in the technical support services provided to project households.
(i)    Veterinary services are organized in a hierarchical manner, with the higher level
diagnostic and laboratory services supporting the lower ones. Veterinary services are
often combined with Al and extension services, such as in Shanxi, and consolidated into
single stations. The higher-level services provide more specialized and complicated
diagnostic work. At the provincial and prefectural levels, diagnostic laboratory facilities
are designed to address new disease outbreaks and special diagnostic problem cases in
their service areas, and to provide technical advice and training to lower-level county and
township laboratories and service stations. Veterinary services at the county level
process more routine laboratory and diagnostic facilities and services, including
vaccination programs and the training of township-level service personnel. At the
township level, basic first-aid services are frequently provided by para-veterinary
personnel who refer noticeable diseases to higher-level laboratories for diagnostic
confirmation and follow-up. The township stations are at the forefront of service
provision and deal directly with farmers. Practical and repeated training is therefor
important, and would be addressed under the Project. Veterinary services concentrating
on the reduction of calf mortality and the accurate diagnosis of reproductive failure in
breeding cows are important service indicators.



Page 41
(ii)   Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Stations (AHVS).  The Bank would finance the
upgrading or expansion of 396 veterinary service stations in the four Project provinces,
including additional or new veterinary or diagnostic laboratory equipment and diagnostic
space, to specifically address the improvement by animal husbandry and veterinary
station and staff to diagnose and treat cattle diseases.  This would involve the
procurement of weighing scales, cattle stocks, holding pens, post mortem space and
equipment, veterinary instruments, drug inventories, vaccine cold storage, and training.
Phasing and location details are provided in Table 2.9.
Table 2.9 - Phasing, Location and Number of Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Stations (AHVS)
AHVS              Henan    Hebei           Anhui \a        Shanxi Total
Project Year           1     1     2     1    2    3   4         1
Service Level:
Province              -     -     -    1    -    -   -          1       2
Prefecture           3      -     -     1    -    -   -                 4
County              25    13      8     9    5    -   -        12      72
Township            75    42    27    31   21   17   5        100     318
Total               101    57    35    42   26   17   5        113     396
\a In Shanxi, veterinary and AI services are combined in the same AHVS.
(iii)   Upgrading of Artifcial Insemination (AI) Services.  The Bank would support the
upgrading and expansion of 599 Al stations. Al services represent the operational phase
of the cross-breeding improvement program supported by the Project, and are delivered
under the aegis of the AHBs. For this sub-component, the Bank would finance civil
works for the expansion or improvement of Al facilities, liquid nitrogen (LN) storage
facilities and the procurement of LN transfer equipment, transport vehicles ranging from
trucks to motorcycles, Al equipment, and training. With the exception of Anhui
province, which, on the basis of an already high cow insemination rate of 56%, has
elected to emphasize the strengthening of its veterinary services over Al services, the
other provinces would invest in the expansion of Al services to reach cattle insemination
rates of 40-60%. The effective implementation of AI services is of great economic
importance, since low conception rates resulting in delayed or fewer calving will
diminish household cash flows.  Al technicians will therefore require substantial
upgrading by training in order to assist in implementing the Al program successfully.
The phasing, location and number of Al stations to be upgraded under the Project are
presented in Table 2. 10.
Table 2.10 - Phasing, Location and Number of Artificial Insemination (Al) Stations
Al Station    Henan    Hebei              Anhui          Shanxi \a  Total
Project Year       1    1       2    1    2    3    4            1
Service
Level:
County             -   12     9    -    -    -                12       33
Township           -   42    27    9    3    2    -          100      183
Village         225      -     -   33   39   69   17           -      383
Total            225   54    36   42   42   71   17           112      599
\a In Shanxi, veterinary and AI stations are combined into one service station.



Page 42
(iv)    Cattle Recording system. This system, accomplished by the ear tagging of project cattle,
would provide a tracking capability from the household producers through the markets
and feedlots, to the processor. Color-coded tags would indicate the type and origin of
cross-bred. Checkpoints am feedlots and processors would be able to identify cattle in
feedlot feeding trials and ir carcass evaluation at the processor. A feedback mechanism
would evaluate certain breed crosses and associated breeding and husbandry programs.
(v)     Differential Beef Pricing System. This system would be developed on a pilot basis by
linking market prices received for project beef to consumer and HRI buyer preferences
for such beef. The system. would also develop price linkages between beef grades and
prices, based on sales from processors and retailers on the supply side, and HRI buyers
on the demand side. Responsibility for carrying out this activity falls to staff from
central MOA and the Chiina Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS) Livestock
Production Division.
(b) Training and Technical Assistance. Training would be provided to participating households, AHB
project management and technical staff, staff of breeding stations, feedlots, processors, meat inspection
service. Details of training content and scheduling are presented in detail in the PIP. Bank staff would
review and clear applications for study tours and participants outside the project province. Annual
overseas training and study tour plans would be submitted to the Bank no later than December 1 of each
year for prior approval. Where possible, project-funded training has been standardized between provinces
for similar groups of trainees. This is especially the case for project management training, to ensure that
project management units at all Project levels would obtain similar management skills and objectives.
Basic training principles which have been applied in the design of provincial training programs. These
include:
*      universal training for all Project participants
*      emphasis on skills developiment and training for women cattle producers
*      specific topics to be delivered only when they are about to be applied
*      standardization, where possilble, of curricula, fees and schedules to enable larger classes
*      training fees to be shared equitably between trainees and training organizations
*      specialized training for project managers, with senior levels receiving centralized joint
training
*      study tours to be implemented as much domestically as practical, in order to obtain
relevant insight into cattle production topics.
Table 2.11 details the estimated project training budget. Training budgets by province are detailed in the
PIP.
Table 2.11 - Traiining Budget by Province ($'000)
Province                       Henian         Hebei          Anhui         Shanxi
Domestic Training                  447.6          449.2          432.8         717.1
Overseas Training                  162.0          195.7          151.4         424.2
International Consultants              -           22.9               -          7.5
Domestic Consultants                 13.7          38.0               -         10.2
Total                              623.3          705.8          584.2       1,159.0



Page 43
(c) Research and Development (R&D). The implementation of R&D projects would be carried out by
the research or technical institutions in each project province and would be financed by government
counterpart funds. It was agreed during negotiations that annual research and development programs be
submitted to the Bank for review by no later than December I of each year. Each project province would,
through its agricultural university, academy of science or other research institution, support R&D related
to cattle production. R&D topics would include: genetic improvement, feeds and forages, feedlot
performance, reproductive efficiency, and cross-breeding. R&D topics should not be academic in nature
but have a practical application to ongoing project activities. Preferably, R&D work would be carried out
within the project, using project cattle, programs and facilities to that end.
(d) Strengthen Project Management Offices. This would be primarily achieved though training in
project management skills: procurement, disbursement, accounting, evaluation, supervision, and
reporting. Project management training would apply to all levels of all Project implementation managers,
in accordance with standard sets of topics for each level. The training of project managers would be
carried out centrally for selected trainees at each management level. Trainees would then provide training
to lower-level project management staff in their provinces. Under this system each project management
level provides training for the next lower level. For financial and institutional managers, training would
comprise: (a) procurement and disbursement, accounting, monitoring and evaluation, and project
management. For technical managers, training would include (a) technical topics related to needs, (b)
project management, (c) monitoring and evaluation. Details of training are provided in the PIP and in
Table 2.12.
Table 2.12 - Project Management Offices Receiving Management Training
Province         Henan    Hebei    Anhui    Shanxi          Total
PMO level:
Provincial             1         1         1           1         4
Prefecture             4         5         3          3          15
County                21        21        14         12         69
Township              69        69        79        100        323
Total                 95        96        97        116        411



Annex 3
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                      Total      Total     Total      Total       Local      Foreign     Total
Anhui    Hebei    Henan    Shanxi   -----------------US $ million--------------
---------- -------US$ million---------------------
A. Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement
Breed Improvement                    0.55                 0.69                    0.60        0.64      1.24
Feed Improvement                                                     0.60         0.41        0.19      0.60
B. Cattle Production
Household Cattle Raising            29.19      20.91     23.50      13.9         f 310       23.8      86.9
Household-fattening                  3.55       3.17      3.32      10.46        15.88        4.62     20.50
Feedlot Cattle Fattening             2.52       6.66      3.41       3.50        12.00        4.09      16.09
C. Market Development
Live Cattle Trade Market             0.47       0.15      0.07       0.81          1.05       0.45       1.50
Beef Slaughtering and Processing     3.99       7.81      5.10       4.14        11.63        9.41     21.04
D. Institutional Strengthening
Technical Support Services           3.06       2.51      2.52       4.90         7.14        5.85      12.99
Project Management                   1.14       1.47      0.83       2.18         3.76        1.80      5.56
Total Baseline Cost                    44.47      42.62     39.44      39.98       115.57       50.94    166.51
Physical Contingencies                1.22       1.23      1.27       1.01         2.59       2.14       4.73
Price Contingencies                   2.44       1.81      2.10      2.27          5.99       2.63       8.62
Front-end Fee                         0.24      0.24       0.24      0.22                     0.94       0.94
Total Project Cost                     48.37      45.90     43.05      43.48       124.15       56.65    180.80



Page 45
Project Cost Summary
(Yuan 000)                                            (USS 000)
%         % Total                                    %       % Total
Foreign    Base                                      Foreign  Base
Local      Foreign     Total       Exchange    Costs  Local        Foreign     Total    Exchange Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. LandAcquisition                         11,094.2          -    11,094.2          -          1      1,3367          -    1,336.7      -          1
B. Works
1. Animal Shed                           143,767.7    61,501.2   205,268.9       30          15    17,494.6    7,483.9   24,978.5    30         15
2. Building                               37,075.7    30,334.7    67,410.4       45           5     4,511.6    3,691.3    8,202.9    45          5
3. Environmental Protection Works          2,829.6    1,886.4     4,716.0        40           -       344.3     229.5      573.9     40
4 Other Works                             69,641.6    23,718.9    93,360.5       25           7     8,474.5    2,886.3   11,360.7    25          7
Subtotal Works                            253,314.6   117,441.2   370,755.8       32          27    30,825.0   14,291.0   45,116.1     32        27
C. Equipment
1. Main Equipment
Major Slaughtering/Processing Equipment        -    30,076.9    30,076.9      100           2           -    3,660.0    3,660.0    100         2
Other Slaughtering/Processing Equipment  10,291.3    15,436.9    25,728.2      80           2      1,252.3    1,878.5    3,130.8    60         2
Feed Processing Equipment                  394.4      591.6       986.0        60            -       48.0       72.0     120.0      60          -
Frozen Seman Production Equipment             -       356.0       356 0       100            -          -       43.3      43.3    100           -
Subtotal Main Equipment                   10,685.7    46,461.4    57,147.1       81           4     1,300.3    5,653.7    6,954.0    81          4
2. Environmental Protection Equipment      2,844.0    4,266.0     7,110.0        60           1       346.1     519.1      865.2     60          1
3. Office/Laboratory Equipment
Computer                                   508.0     2,032.0     2,540.0       80            -       61.2      244.8     306.0      80          -
Electrc Equipment                           23.5       93.8       117.3        80            -        2.8       11.3      14.1      80
Fumiture                                 1,371.1     1,371.1     2,742.2       50            -      166.8      166.8     333.7      50
Other Office Equipment                     663.6     2,654.6     3,318.2       80            -       80.8      3230      403.8      80          -
Laboratory Equipment                     6,167.3     9,250.9    15,418.2       60           1       750.5    1,125.7    1,876.2     60          1
Subtotal OfficelLaboratory Equipment       8,733.5    15,402.4    24,135.9       64           2     1,062.1    1,871.7    2,933.8    64          2
4. Other Equipmnent
Forage Chopper                           8,513.3     8,513.3    17,026.6       50           1      1,036.0    1,036.0    2,071.9    50          1
Hand Cart                                1,021.9     1,021.9     2,943.8       50            -      124.4      124.4     248.7      50          -
Liquid-nitrogen Tank                     1,370.0     3,196.6     4,566.6       70            -      166.7      389.0     555.7      70
Weigh-bridge                               433.5      433.5       867.0        50            -       52.8       52.8     105.5      50
Boiler                                    t18.5       276.5       395.0        70            -       14.4       33.6      48.1      70          -
Water/PowerlHeat Supply Equipment        5,242.0     5,242.0    10,464.0       50            1      637.9      637.9    1,275.8     50          1
Minor Equipment                          3,099.3     3,099.3     6,1986        50            -      377.1      377.1     754.3      50
Subtotal OtherEquipment                   19,798.5    21,783.1    41,581 5       52           3     2,409.2    2,650.7    5,059.9     52         3
5 Equipment Installation                   6,058.0    4,038.7    10,096 7        40           1       737.2     491.5    1,228.6     40  .       1
8. Spare parts                              187.8     1,690.3     1,878.1        90           -        22.9     205.7      228.5     90          -
Subtotal Equipment                         48,307.5    93,6419    141,949.4       66           10     5,877.7   11,392.4   17,270.2    86         10
D. Inputs
1. Cattle                                441,576.2   t10,394.1   551,970.3       20          40    53,734.0   13,433.5   67,167.5    20         40
2, Breeding Bulls                           176.0     2,017.0     2193.0         92           -        21.4     245.4      266.9      92          -
3, Embryo                                       -       250.0       250.0       100           -           -      30.4       30.4    100           -
4. Urea                                         -    36,041.7    36,041.7       100           3           -    4,385.8    4,385 8    100         3
5. Plastic Film                                       5,301.5     5,301.5       100           -           -     645.1      645.1    100           -
8. Grass Seed                               966.4       241.6     1,208.0        20           -       117.6      294       147.0      20          -
7. Other materials                        45,786.2          -    45,786.2         -           3     5,571.6         -    5,571.6       -         3
Subtgtal Inputs                           488,504.8   154,245.9   642,750.7       24          47    59,444.6   18,769.7  78,214.2      24         47
E. Vehicles
1. Al Service Vehicle                       815.4     3,261.6     4,077.0        80           -        99.2     396.9      496.1     80          -
2. Truck                                   1,629.1    2,443.6     4,072.7        60           -       198.2     297.4      495.6      60          -
4. Liquid Nitogen/Disease Prevention Van   4,420.0    6,630.0    11,050.0        60           1       537.9     806.8    1,344.6      60         1
5. Motor Cycle                              789.6      3,158.4    3,948.0        80           -        96.1     384.3      480.4      80          -
6.Tractor/RuralTri-cycle                    927.0       927.0     1,854.0        50           -       112.8     112.8      225.6      50      -
Subtotal Vehicles                           8,581.1    16,420.6    25,001.7       66            2     1,044.2    1,998.2    3,042.4    66          2
F. Training/TA
1. Domestc Training                       12,002.4    4,000 8    16,003.1        25           1     1,460.5     486.8    1,947.4     25          1
2. Overseas Training                            -      7,365.0    7,365.0       100           1           -      896.2     896.2    100          1
3. Domestic Consuftant                      2777         92.6       370.2        25           -        33.8      11.3       45.0      25
4. Intemational Consultant                      -       360.0       360.0       100           -           -      43.8       43.8    100
5. Scientific Research                     2,780.0          -     2,780.0         -           -       338.3         -      338.3
Subtotal TralningtTA                        15,060.0    11,818.3    26,878.3      44           2      1,832.6    1,438.1    3,270.7    44          2
G. Other
1. Freight and Insurance                   4,688.6    3,325.8     8.014.4        41           1       570.5     404.7      975.2     41          1
2. Protect Management                     24,878.5     6,219 6   31,098.1        20           2      3,027.4     756.8    3,784.2     20         2
3. Project Fee for Central PMO             3,486.0          -     3,486.0         -           -       424.2         -      424.2       -          -
4. Miscellaneous                           4,252.9      472.5     4,725.4        10           -       517.5       57.5     575.0      10
5. Project Design                          3,117.9          -     3,117.9         -           -       379.4         -      379.4       -          -
Subtotal Other                             40,423.9    10,017.9    50,441.8       20           4      4,919.0    1,219.0    6,138.1    20          4
Total Investment Costs                      865,286.0   403,585.8  1,268,871.9      32          93   105,279.8   49,108.5  154,388.3      32        93
II. Recurrent Costs
A Working Capital                           85,442.0    1S,078.0   100,520.0       15           7    10,294.2    1,816.6   12.110.8    15          7
Total Recurrent Costs                        85,442.0    15,078.0   100,520.0       15           7    10,294.2    1,816.6   12,110.8     15         7
950,728.1   418,663.8  1,369,391.9      31         100   115,574.1   50,925.1  166,499.2    31        100
Physical Contingencies                     21,274.6    17,562.8    38,837.4       45            3     2,588.8    2,137.2    4,726.0    45          3
Price Contingendes                         89,272.9    38,980.4   128,253.3       30           9      5,987.4    2,646.2    8,633.6    31          5
Front-end Fee                                           7,760.5     7,760.5                                       935.0      935.0          _
TOTALPROJECrTCosTS                 .       1,061,275.5   482,967.6  1,544,243.1     31         112   124,150.3   56,643.5  180,793.8     31        108



Page 46
Annex 4
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Summary of Economic Analysis
Table 1
Annual           NPV          Economic
Component                      Inc. Net Return     @ 12%      Rate of Return
(Y'000)         (Y'000)          %
1. Anhui Province
- Household Cattle Raising         47,925         142,071         38
- Feedlot Cattle Raising            5,931          22,788         61
- Province as a whole             123,775         540,621         35
2. Hebei Province
- Household Cattle Raising         66,428          48,676         20
- Feedlot Cattle Raising           23,556          98,471         52
- Province as a whole              98,587         357,419         24
3. Henan Province
- Household Cattle Raising         88,101         129,872         24
- Feedlot Cattle Raising            5,526          24,910         63
- Province as a whole             112,594         133,693         26
4. Shanxi Province
- Household Cattle Raising        126,807         341,261         51
- Feedlot Cattle Raising            8,326          33,964         77
- Province as a whole             515,319         509,672         39
Total Project                  1,422,412       1,925,500         30
Financial and Economic Analysis
I.    Introduction. The major benefits cif the project would be derived from the incremental value of
livestock produced by project households, finished by the feed lot operations (including individual
households, collectives and larger commercial entities), and processed into cut beef, semi-prepared food and
by-products. Detailed financial analysis was undertaken for the various models of household production,
feed lot operation and agro-processing activities that have been adopted by project provinces.  All
participating beneficiaries would be required lto provide at least 30 percent of the investment cost as equity
contribution, and consequently, the production models assume that 70 percent would be borrowed funds, at
the prevailing ABC interest rate for long term loans. Economic analysis was undertaken on the basis of the
consolidated activities for each province, valued at border prices.
2.     Financial Analysis. Livestock production models for each province were developed, based on
prevailing prices and practices, insofar as they are compatible with project objectives. Small-scale livestock
production is generally a sideline activity undertaken by women and older household members,
supplementing family incomes from crop production, off-farm income and remittances. The AWCF reports
that there is a strong correlation between earnings of this type and the rising status and empowerment of farm
women. In the analysis of household cow-calf production models, only income from crop production before
and with the project was taken into account--ignoring off-farm income and remittances. Household



Page 47
production models are designed to be compatible with household cash flows and crop residue balances to
ensure that project cattle can be adequately fed and reach adequate performance levels. The cattle output
per household per year is determnined by (a) the cow calving rate, (b) cow and calf mortality, and (c) age
at weaning. Calf mortality has been assumed to decrease from 2% to 0.5% over time, with age at
weaning at a stable 6 months. Investment costs include the initial purchase of livestock, small production
tools; cattle sheds, silage pits for the ammoniation of straw or the ensilaging of crop residues; training in
production technology; and the purchase of urea and plastic sheet for the first production cycle of
ammoniated straw. Production costs include replacement animals, feed and forage production supplies,
minerals, medicine, breeding fees, marketing fees, utilities, maintenance and repairs, and a death loss of 2%
young stock per year. Breeding cows were assumed to have a useful life of 8 years. The models reflect the
increased fertility rate of breeding cows, which is assumed to increase with the project due to improved
nutrition and better Al services. Crop and livestock byproducts (straw and corn stalk) have been assigned a
zero value on the assumption that there is no alternative demand for these products. Their positive
contribution to increased soil fertility through burning--heretofore a common practice--would be more than
equaled by its conversion into manure, which has also been assigned zero value (not considering negative air
pollution effects). Farm labor has been valued at zero but a return to labor has been calculated, indicating that
this activity is economically feasible. Income includes the sale of cull cows in addition to young livestock.
All models were evaluated for their ability to repay investment costs over a repayment period of seven years,
including two years' grace, at an interest rate of 10.53 percent. Shanxi Province provides for a nutritional
improvement model, under which no additional cattle would be purchased, and investment costs would be
limited to forage improvement costs (grass seed, fertilizer, and field preparation), sheds, and small tools.
Farm households would sell one to three animals each year.
3.     Project feedlots would purchase young cattle from cow-calf-raising households and feed these to
an average 400-450 kg live-weight in 100-120 days. Feedlot cattle would receive wheat bran-based
concentrate, ensilaged corn stover (stems), and several kg of oilseed cake per day. This ration has been
formulated to produce average gains from 0.85 kg to 1.0 kg per day. Household-owned feedlots, fattening
variously two, three, five or ten head per cycle in two or three cycles per year, are assumed to be either
individual operations or collectives of up to four farm families. Investment costs include the same items as
other household models, i.e., initial purchase of livestock and small tools, construction of cattle sheds and
silage pits, training, and the purchase of urea and plastic sheet for the first production cycle. Production costs
are similar except for a lower death loss provision of I percent, as the risk of losing older animals is less than
that of calves. Because of their larger capacity, all feed for these feedlots is assumed to be purchased.
4.     Commercial feed lots, with a design capacity for 100-500 heads per cycle, have been assumed to
operate at 80-90% of capacity--no feedlots with a capacity of over 500 head per cycle would be included in
the project for environmental reasons. Commercial feedlot operation costs assume a death loss of 2 percent
and include costs for veterinary inspection, transport, marketing; and labor costs for workers and managers.
In addition, income taxes at the rate of 33 percent of net income (gross income less production cost) would be
included. These feedlots are expected to operate on either two 180-day cycles (Hebei and Shanxi) or three
100-120 day cycles (Anhui and Henan) per year, depending on the weight of cattle entering the feedlots. To
minimize operating costs, feedlots would be located in areas of surplus forage and grain crop residues.
Commercial feedlots require higher levels of investment, wvorking capital, and managerial skills but offer
good opportunities for adding value. Risk can be controlled by the purchase and sale of young or finished
cattle on a weekly or monthly basis; by contracting young feeder cattle from surrounding households and by
contracting the sale of finished cattle to slaughter or processing plants; by being responsive to carcass
composition and weight specifications to meet slaughter plant requirements; and by arranging joint ownership
between producers and processors for better integration.
5.     Agro-processing enterprises were analyzed individually on the basis of their present and projected
production, investments and operating costs. Financial analyses assume a utilization capacity of at least 80
percent.



Page 48
6.     Sensitivity Analysis. Household production and feed lot models are most sensitive to the price of
feed, and secondly to the price of cattle. In general, the household models are not sensitive to changes in
investment costs. Beef processing enterprises are especially sensitive to live cattle prices and capacity
utilization but are also not sensitive to investment costs.
Economic Analysis
7.     Economic analysis was carried out separately for each province, combining not only the investment
costs for household production, feedlots (both household and commercial), and agro-processing enterprises,
but also the investment costs for project imanagement, infrastructure improvements (breeding centers,
veterinary and Al stations), training, and techniical assistance. The economic benefits would be derived from
net profit gain from improved cattle quality and increased individual body weight achieved from the breed
improvement program and the enhanced feeding regimen.
8.     World Bank price projections or av(erage export prices actually realized by China were used to
estimate farngate economic prices in 1997 constant terns for traded inputs and outputs. Economic prices for
non-traded goods were estimated using conversion factors. The conversion factors were based on analysis of
the deviation of social opportunity costs, caused by tax and price distortions of non-traded goods, from the
actual financial prices prevailing in the four project provinces. The prices for beef, corn and soymeal were
adjusted for domestic transportation and handling costs. The economic price of beef was converted to a live
cattle price. For processed beef products, export prices were not available, prevailing market prices were
therefore used in the analysis instead. All economic values were converted to local currency at the prevailing
official exchange rate of Y 8.3 to US$. Farm. and unskilled labor has been valued at Y 8.00 per person/day,
representing 80 percent of the prevailing average wage rate of about Y 10.00 in the project areas. Skilled
labor cost at beef processing factories was adjjusted by a conversion factor of 1.30. The analysis was carried
out for a IS-year time period.
9.     Based on the above assumptions, the economic rates of return ranged from 24 to 39 percent among
the provinces. The total project ERR is estimated at 30%.
10.    Sensitivity Analysis. Similar patteras prevail to the financial analysis: sensitivity to changes in
cattle prices and cattle feeds, with limited sensitivity to investment costs.



Page 49
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Table 2
Switching Value @ 12%    Price Falls Investment Operating
Base Case ------------------------------------   by 10%  Costs Inc.  Costs Inc.
Component                  ERR       Costs   Benefits Costs &               by 10%     by 10%
Benefits
1. Anhui Province
- Household Cattle Raising  38         9.3      -8.5      4.4       13         33         12
-FeedlotCattleRaising       61        13.4    -11.8       6.2       20         51         29
- Province as a whole       35        25.6    -20.4      11.1       22         32         25
2. Hebei Province
- Household Cattle Raising  20         3.4      -3.4      1.6       14         17         11
- Feedlot Cattle Raising    52        18.5    -15.8       8.6       28         48         34
- Province as a whole       24        13.8    -12.1       6.4       14         23         15
3. Henan Province
- Household Cattle Raising  24        13.1    -11.5       6.1       13         21         16
- Feedlot Cattle Raising    63         7.7      -7.2      3.7       27         49         33
- Province as a whole       26        16.5    -13.8       7.5       15         24         18
4. Shanxi Province
- Household Cattle Raising  51        49.8    -33.2      28.7       41         47         45
- Feedlot Cattle Raising    77        16.1    -14.1       7.4       32         65         44
- Province as a whole       39        39.1    -28.2      16.2       30         37         33
Total Project             30        22.5    -18.3       10.1       19         28        22



Page 50
Annex 5
Smallholder IC'attle Development Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending 2003
($ million)
Implementation Period                         Operational
Period
Sources         PY1    PY2    PY(3    PY4    PY5    Total    % of              Ave.       % of
Total   cost/yr    Total
Project Costs
Investrnent Costs  52.38   69.13   38.04    7.34    0.87    167.76       94      0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs    2.95    3.59    3.18    2.15    0.23        12.10      6    20.0         10.6
Front-end Fee      0.94                                         0.94
Total          56.27   72.72   41.22    9.49    1.10    180.80    100                    10.6
Financing Sources
IBRD              24.17   40.30   23.95    4.87    0.21        93.50     49.8                0.0
Domestic Banks    5.70    7.70    3.20    0.66    0.50         17.76     11.3   15.7        80.0
Government         6.00    7.60    6.70    2.90    1.40        24.60     12.6                0.0
Beneficiaries     16.93   15.64   10.60    1.70    0.07        44.94     26.3    4.3        20.0
Total          52.80   71.24   44.45   10.13    2.18    180.80    100.0  20.0          100.0
Main assumptions:
a Financing plan is based on total Project costs by year including contingencies.
b Government financing includes funds from governments at various levels.
c Each processing enterprises are to make an equity contribution not less than 20 percent of its total project costs.



Page 51
Annex 6
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Bank's Procurement Guidelines (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999) and the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999) would be applied to all Bank-financed procurement. The
Bank-approved Chinese Model Bidding Documents would be adopted for all International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for goods and works and the Standard Bid
Evaluation Form would be used. In the case where the model documents exist, the borrower must use the
relevant Bank Document. Goods under ICB and office equipment under LIB would be packaged for
centralized procurement at the provincial level. A specialized procurement agency would be selected to
provide assistance. Each participating province would manage its own procurement for works, other
goods, training and technical assistance. The procurement unit of the Foreign Economic Cooperation
Center (FECC) of the Ministry of Agriculture would provide cross-provincial services to coordinate
procurement and training activities. The procurement profile is shown in Annex 6, Table A.
Implementing Agency Procurement Capacity Assessment
The assessment of the implementing agencies capacity to implement procurement, lists several
incompatibilities. Some of the main incompatibilities include: (a) preparation of cost estimates after bid
opening, (b) the use of bracketing for evaluation purposes, (c) the use of a merit point system in bid
evaluation, (d) a too short time for bid evaluation, and (e) lack of proper advertising. These shortcomings
imply a lack of transparency, and would be addressed in the following manner. First, procurement
training would be provided to all procurement staff at the various PMO levels responsible for
procurement. This training would begin during the Launch Workshop, and continue thereafter, overseen
by Resident Mission procurement staff, who would provide follow-up training in those topics needing
such training. Second, a strict Bank review of procurement procedures would be in place during the early
stages of project implementation, which would include Bank reviews of the first three contracts in any
project province. Third, standard Bank procurement document for China would be used and adherence to
all Bank procurement guidelines would be complied with. The procurement capacity action plan is
attached to the Project Implementation Plan and forms part and parcel of the PMO training, and
implementation protocols.
A. Procurement of Works
Works valued at $50.86 million would be required for the project to support cattle breed improvement,
cattle production, market and infrastructure development. It would cover the costs for construction of
animal sheds and buildings, civil works for site preparation, and waste treatment facilities which would be
spread over 75 counties in four provinces and be carried out over five years. Works contracts would be
too dispersed and too small in value. None could be packaged into contracts exceeding $2.0 million and
would therefore not be of interest to foreign construction companies. Therefore, no ICB procedure for
works is anticipated under this Project.
Approximately 19 percent of the works ($9.8 million) would be procured on the basis of national
competitive bidding (NCB). These contracts would mainly be for construction at the provincial level
cattle breeding centers, cattle and feed processing plants, some feedlots and prefecture level cattle
markets, and technical support services at the provincial levels.



Page 52
The remaining works of about $41.06 million or 81 percent would be for small works and would be
divided into two groups. Thefirst group comprises small scale work at the prefectural level. This would
include contracts under $100,000, valued at a total of $5.04 million, would comprise small-capacity
feedlots, small cattle markets, technical support services, veterinary and artificial insemination service
facilities. All of these would be spread, in the form of small-value contracts, throughout the project areas,
and would therefore best be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
The invitation would include a detailed description, the required completion date and relevant drawings,
where applicable.
The second group comprises construction for cattle sheds, forage silos and ammoniation pits for
household cattle raising activities which would be carried out amongst 138,488 project households
spreading out in 326 townships. With prior agreement of the Bank, these works, valued at about $36.02
million, would be carried out under force account to employ labor forces mobilized by Project counties,
townships and villages. Payments for force account works would be based on quantities agreed annually
with the Bank.
B. Procurement of Goods
The project would require goods valued at about $105.57 million. To the extent practicable, contracts for
goods would be grouped into packages estirnated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more. These goods
packages valued at $11.63 million would be procured under ICB procedures. These include equipment
for slaughtering, processing and environmental protection ($9.22 million) and vehicles ($2.42 million). A
margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the CIF price of imported goods or the actual customs duties
and taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed to qualified domestic manufacturers bidding under ICB
procedures.
Other equipment and vehicles worth $4.65 mnillion, valued at less than $200,000 per contract would be
procured by NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. These goods would comprise small-scale
processing equipment, liquid nitrogen tanks, scales, boilers, and utility or other minor equipment ($3.9
million) and motorcycle and rural tricycles ('S0.75 million). NCB procurement as presently carried out
exhibits many of the incompatibilities outlined above. Procurement procedures of these items described
would be carried separately out by each project province, and would involve advertising, followed by
standard Bank procurement procedures which encourage transparency and cost efficiency. Items of
similar type would be combined into larger contracts for bid invitation. Computer equipment valued at
less than $100,000 per contract for a total of $0.3 million would be procured through Limited
International Bidding (LIB) procedures, given that only a small number of suppliers exist who can
provide the type of customized Chinese-language equipment required.
National Shopping (NS). Goods valued at $17.68 million would comprise small contracts valued at less
than $50,000 per contract. These would inclucle: urea, plastic film and forage seed ($5.43 million); initial
slaughter cattle stocks for processing enterprises ($5.99 million); minor office and laboratory equipment,
and fumiture ($2.67 million); and small livestock production equipment ($3.59 million), which would be
procured through national shopping procedures since these products would be purchased in small
quantity and in multiple lots. These items are to be distributed amongst 1,000 villages in the four project
provinces, with purchases being made over a period of five years, making competitive bidding
procurement procedures impractical. Procurement of initial cattle for processing plants and feedlots
would be procured as small contracts uncder national shopping procedures with cattle fattening
households. Procurement plans for such cattle would be specified in the processor and feedlot business
development plans and subject to the Bank's prior agreement. Breeding cows and fattening cattle ($71.01
million) for households and feedlots would be procured in small batches, valued at less than $50,000 per
contract, throughout the year and adapted to local conditions. Therefore, they would be best procured



Page 53
from local markets and suppliers by NS procedures. All national shopping contracts would require at
least three price quotations.
Breeding bulls and deep-frozen cattle embryos, valued at less than $50,000 per contract for a total value
of $0.30 million, would be procured through international shopping procedures, since such items, due
to Chinese quarantine restrictions, can only be sourced from a limited number of international suppliers.
International shopping contracts would require at least three price quotations from at least two different
countries. All quotations from both national and international shopping procedures must indicate the
description and quantity of goods, desired delivery time and place.
C. Procurement of Consultant Services and Training
Consultant services and training valued at $3.07 million would be undertaken under the Project. These
would comprise individual consultant services of $0.09 million, overseas training of $0.93 million and
domestic training of $2.05 million. Domestic training would be entirely carried out by local trainers,
using government budgeted funds supplemented by small training course fees. All domestically-funded
training is directed at project farmers, feedlot and cattle market operators, and covers specific, technical
topics related to animal husbandry. Procurement procedures for individual consultants would be in
accordance with Section V (Selection of Individual Consultants) of the Bank's Guidelines: "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999)". The rationale for using this procedure is based on the fact that their qualifications and
experience are unique; in very limited supply; and paramount to the success of the project. All consulting
assignments over $200,000 would be advertised in Development Business. For contracts issued to
individual consultants, individual consultants' procurement procedures would be used. Research would be
done by the county AHBs and research institutes in each project county. Overseas training and domestic
training would be reimbursed based on programs agreed with the Bank. All Bank-financed consulting
assignments must follow the Standard Request for Proposals, including the use of standard contracts,
found in the Bank guidelines dated July 1997, and revised in April 1998 and July 1999.
D. Other Items not Financed by the Bank Group
Land acquisition ($1.34 million), project management fee ($4.53 million), research contracts ($0.35
million), freight and insurance ($1.03 million), design cost ($0.4 million), and miscellaneous ($0.6
million) would be financed by the government and beneficiaries. Recurrent costs of $12.11 million
would be financed by livestock production households and other project beneficiaries.
E. Prior Review
All ICB contracts; the first three NCB contracts for works for each project province; all NCB works
contracts estimated to cost $400,000 or more per contract, would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
These contracts are relatively few and cover 6 percent (ICB contracts), 6 percent (NCB works), and 5
percent (NCB goods) respectively, of the total value of Project-supported goods (excluding cattle
procurement) and works. The percentage of prior review of works is very low because investment are
primarily in households, small feedlots, county markets and farmer support services. Consultant contracts
valued above $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals would also be subject to prior review. All
LIB contracts for goods would also be subject to the Bank's prior review. Model bidding documents
prepared and issued by the Minister of Finance for Bank-financed project in China would be used for ICB
and NCB procurement. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by supervision missions.



Page 54
F. Disbursement
Retroactive Financing. To avoid delays in startup of the project, retroactive financing of $4.33 millious
is recommended for payments made between June 1, 1999 and the date of signing of the Loan
Agreement. About 10 percent of cattle raising households scheduled in the first year of implementation
would be covered to provide demonstrations for other farmer households. Some training for enterprise
management, accounting staff and key project management office personnel would also be covered. A
retroactive financing plan is provided in Annex 6, Table E.
SOE. Statements of expenditure (SOE) would be required for disbursements to be made against
(a) contracts for goods costing less than $201,000, (b) contracts for works costing less than $400,000 but
excluding the first three NCB works contracts per province because they are subject to prior review,
(c) consultants' services costing less than $100,000 for firms, and less than $50,000 for individuals, and
(d) study tours and training. Disbursements for all works carried out under force account and beneficiary
participation arrangements would be made against statements of physical progress achieved at each site at
unit prices agreed with the Bank at the start of the project and subject to annual review. The supporting
documents for SOEs would be retained by each provincial PMO and made available for review by Bank's
supervision missions. Disbursement would be made against the full documentation of the contracts
themselves and other supporting documents for procurement under the Bank's prior review.
Special Account. To facilitate disbursement, four Special Accounts (SAs) to be operated by the Bureaus
of Finance of the provinces of Hebei, Henan., Anhui and Shanxi would be established in a bank acceptable
to the Bank, with a total authorized maximum allocation of $8 million. Each province would have an
initial deposit of $1.2 million and would be increased to $2 million when project disbursement in its
province equals or exceeds $9 million. Applications for replenishment would be submitted monthly or
whenever the amount is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004 and the Loan is expected to close on
December 31, 2005. The allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Annex 6, Table C and an estimated
schedule of disbursements is provided in Annex 6, Table D.



Page 55
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                     Procurement Method                          Total Cost (including
contingencies)
ICB            NCB              Other /a        N.B.F /b
1. Works                                                     9.80          41.06             -                 50.86
(4.46)        (19.35)            -                (23.81)
2. Goods
Equipment                                 9.21            3.90            6.56            -                 19.67
(9.21)          (1.95)          (3.28)                            (14.44)
Vehicles                                 2.42             0.75            -                -                 3.17
(2.42)          (0.37)           -               -                 (2.79)
Livestock Inputs                                          -              11.72             -                11.72
(5.85)           -                 (5.85)
Cattle                                                                  71.01              -                71.01
(42.60)                            (42.60)
3. Services, Training
Domestic Training                         -               -               2.05             -                 2.05
-  -          (2.05)            -                 (2.05)
Overseas Training                         -               -               0.93             -                 0.93
-               -             (0.93)            -                 (0.93)
Consultant Services                       -               -               0.09             -                 0.09
-               -             (0.09)            -                 (0.09)
Research                                  -               -                               0.35               0.35
(0.00)             (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous /c                          -                -               -               7.90               7.90
-  -  -       (0.00)              (0.00)
5. Recurrent Costs                           -               -                -             12.11               12.11
(0.0)              (0.0)
6. Front-end Fee /d                          -                -              0.94             -                  0.94
-               -              (0.94)           -                 (0.94)
Total                                   11.63            14.45         134.36            20.36             180.80
(11.63)         ( 6.77)         (75.10)          (0.0)             (93.50)
Note: /a Other procurement methods include force account for works, procurement for small works, shopping for small equipment, grass
seeds, initial stock for processing plants, international shopping for breeding bulls and deep-frozen cattle embryos, Limited
Intemational Bidding (LIB) for customized equipment, training, and consultant services.
/b NBF denotes non-Bank financing.
/c Miscellaneous include $1.34 million of land acquisition, $4.53 million of management fee, $0.35 million of research contracts, and
$2.03 million of design freight and insurance and other handling costs.
/d Front-end fee of US$0.935 million.
Figures in parenthesis represent the amounts financed by the Bank loan including contingencies.
1For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where
applicable).



Page 56
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(i:n US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                 Selection Method                Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                (including
contingencies)
QBS      SFB    LCS    Other    N.B.F.
A. Firrns
B. Individuals                                     0.09\a              0.09
(0.09)             (0.09)
Total                            0.09                0.09
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  (0.09)  (0.09)
Note: QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
\a     Services include:
Consultant services, valued at $0.09 million, would be contracted to individual specialists
based on their qualifications



Page 57
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review2
Expenditure           Procurement            Value             Value           Total Value
Category               Method          Each Contract    All Contracts          Subject to
/a                 /b                             Prior Review /c
US $ thousands    US $ million        US $ millions
1. Works
NCB                      <2,000               9.80                3.44
SW                         <100               5.04
FA                          <50              36.02
Sub-total                                                           50.86                3.44
2. Goods
Equipment              ICB                        >200               9.21                9.22
NCB                        <200               3.90                1.80
LIB                        <100               0.30                0.30
NS                          <50               6.26
Vehicles               ICB                        >200               2.42                2.42
NCB                        <200               0.75
Inputs                 NS                          <50              11.42
IS                                            0.30                0.31
Cattle                 NS                          <50              71.01
Sub-total                                                          105.57               14.05
3. TA
QCBS                                                                 0.00                0.00
Individual                                                           0.09                0.10
Sub-total                                                            0.09                0.10
4. Research & Training
Training               Other                       <50               2.98                 1.50
Sub-total                                                            2.98                1.50
4. Miscellaneous and    NBF                                            20.36
Recurring Costs
5. Front-end Fee                                                        0.94
TOTAL                                                           180.80               15.65
Notes:
/a ICB = International Competitive Bidding, NCB  National Competitive Bidding, NS = National Shopping, IS = International
Shopping, FA =Force Account, SW = Small Works, TA indicates procurement method specified in the Bank Group
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997,
revised January 1999), and NBF denotes Non-Bank Financing.
/b Threshold for each contract.
/c Please see text for details of prior review thresholds.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact
the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 58
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$             Financing Percentage
million
Hebei
1. Works                                       5.49   45% of expenditure
2. Goods                                        6.42   100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory or ex-
farmgate cost); and 50% for other goods
procured locally
3. Cattle                                      10.65   60% of expenditure
4. Training, Study Tours and                    0.705  100 of expenditure
Consultant Services
5. Front-end Fee                                0.235  Amount due under Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
Sub-total for Hebei                            23.50
Henan
1. Works                                       5.84   45% of expenditure
2. Goods                                        6.07   100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory or ex-
farmgate cost); and 50% for other goods
procured locally
3. Cattle                                      11.22   60% of expenditure
4. Training, Study Tours and                    0.63   100%
Consultant Services
5. Front-end Fee                                0.24   Amount due under Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
Sub-total for Henan                            24.00
Shanxi
1. Works                                       6.28   60% of expenditure
2. Goods                                        6.69   100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory or ex-
farmgate cost); and 50% for other goods
procured locally
3. Cattle                                       7.65   60% of expenditure
4. Training, Study Tours and                    1.16   100%
Consultant Services
5. Front-end Fee                                0.22   Amount due under Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
Sub-total for Shanxi                           22.00
Anhui
1. Works                                        6.20   40% of expenditure
2. Goods                                        3.90   100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory or ex-
farmgate cost); and 50% for other goods
procured locally
3. Cattle                                      13.08   60% of expenditure
4. Training, Study Tours and                    0.58   100%
Consultant Services
5. Front-end Fee                                0.24   Amount due under Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
Sub-total for Anhui                            24.00
Grand Total             93.50



Page 59
Annex 6, Table D: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IBRD                       Disbursement                 Disbursement Profile /a
Fiscal Year/        Semester    Cumulative  Cumulative    Year/    Cumulative
Semester                 ($ Million)           (%)       Semester     (%)
2000                                                                Year 1
Second (Jan-Jun. 2000) /b    8.7           8.7          9      Second          0
2001                                                                Year 2
First (Jul-Dec 2000)        12.8         21.5          23       First         30
Second (Jan-Jun. 2001)      15.0         36.5         39       Second         38
2002                                                                Year 3
First (Jul-Dec 2001)        14.9         51.4          55       First         46
Second (Jan-Jun. 2002)      14.1         65.5         70       Second         54
2003                                                                Year 4
First (Jul-Dec 2002)         9.3         74.8          80       First         66
Second (Jan-Jun. 2003)       7.5         82.3          88      Second         74
2004                                                                Year 5
First (Jul-Dec 2003)         4.6         86.9          93       First         82
Second (Jan-Jun. 2004)       1.9         88.8         95       Second         90
2005                                                                Year 6
First (Jul-Dec 2004)         1.9         90.7          97       First         94
Second (Jan-Jun. 2005)       1.9         92.6         99       Second         98
2006                                                                Year 7
First (Jul-Dec 2005)         0.9         93.5        100        First        100
/a Disbursement profile for agricultural sector in China compiled by OPRPG, June 30, 1995.
/b Including retroactive financing of $4.33 million to cover expenditure incurred between June 1, 1999
and not more than one year before the signing of the Loan Agreement and $0.935 million to cover front-
end fee.
Completion Date: December 31, 2004
Closing Date: December 31, 2005



Page 60
Annex 6, Table E: Retroactive Financing Plan \a
('000 Yuan)
Province        Qty         Works           Eqpt               Inputs             Domestic Overseas            Total
hh  Cattle Silage Field Chopper/ Cattle   Urea  Plastic  Grass Training Training  (Base cost)  (including
shed   pit  Prep.   Tool                     film    seed                                 contingencies)
Anhui                             99.4  27.6      -         - 1,293.8   99.8   13.8        -    387.5     375.0    2,296.9       2,465.7
Demonstration Household
lcow/2 calf household   460   99.4  27.6       -        - 1,293.8   99.8    13.8        -     41.4               1,575.7      1,694.2
Institutional Development
For provincial level staff                                                                   166.6     135.0      301.6         322.7
For prefecture level staff                                                                    63.5                 63.5          68.0
For county level staff                                                                        28.8                 28.8          30.8
For township level staff                                                                      87.2                 87.2          93.2
Yumei Beef Processing Co.                                                                                 240.0      240.0         256.8
Hebei                            384.0  184.0     -    654.0 10,279.4 1,334.4  123.8       -    877.9     765.0   14,602.4       15,606.1
Demonstration Household
Icow/I calf household    4,000  360.0  160.0   -    600.0 9,540.0 1,308.0  120.0        -    360.0              12,448.0     13,354.9
2-h fattening household    300   24.0  24.0    -      :54.0  739.4   26.4    3.8        -     27.0                898.5         907.4
Institutional Development
For provincial level staff                                                                   204.5      90.0      294.5         315.1
For prefecture level staff                                                                    76.7      90.0      166.7         178.3
For county level staff                                                                       149.8    495.0       644.8         689.9
For township level staff                                                                      13.3                 13.3          14.2
Hebei Feed Mill                                                                                  46.7      90.0       136.7        146.2
Henan                            480.0      -   9.1      9D.0 9,000.0  537.0   660         -    752.7      84.0   11,018.8       11,805.3
Demonstration Household
2 cow household        3,000  480.0     -   9.1    930.0 9,000.0  537.0   66.0          -    270.0              10,452.1     11,199.0
Institutional Development
For provincial level staff                                                                   143.4                143.4         153.4
For prefecture level staff                                                                    88.1                 88.1          94.2
For county level staff                                                                       120.0                120.0         128.4
For township level staff                                                                     131.3                131.3         140.4
Zhoukou Beef Processing Co.                                                                                84.0        84.0         89.9
Shanxi                               - 350.0  16.5    37:5.0        -  476.3  112.5   54.0   597.2        900.0    2,881.5        3,122.2
Demonstration Household
Nutrition improvementhh  1,250    - 350.0  16.5    37:5.0        -  476.3   112.5   54.0    112.5                1,496.8       1,640.7
Institutional Development
For provincial level staff                                                                   168.7      90.0      258.7         276.8
For prefecture level staff                                                                   100.7      90.0      190.7         204.0
For county level staff                                                                       165.3     720.0      885.3         947.2
For township level staff                                                                      35.0                 35.0          37.4
Cattle Mineral Block Plant                                                                       15.0                  15.0         16.0
Total                            963.4  561.6  25.6  1,119.0 20,573.1 2,447.5  316.1   54.0  2,615.3   2,124.0   30,799.5       32,999.3
a\ For activities between June 1, 1999 and one year prior to the date of signing of the Loan Agreement.



Page 61
Annex 7
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule                                  Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      24 months             29 months
First Bank mission (identification)              06/15/1996           06/15/1996
Appraisal mission departure                      07/20/1998           05/03/1999
Negotiations                                     09/21/1998            11/08/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    05/10/2000               /  I
Prepared by: Joint Finance Bureaus and Animal Husbandry Bureaus of the Provinces of Henan,
Hebei, Anhui, and Shanxi.
Preparation assistance: PHRD Japan and Bank Budget
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Rapeepun Jaisaard                        Agricultural Economics
Abraham Brandenburg                              Livestock
Nicolette DeWitt/Margaret Png                     Legal Counsel
Kay Hill                                   Financial
Zhong Tong                            Agricultural Economics
Weiguo Zhou                                Cost Estimate
Robert Hand                                 Beef Cattle
John Hall                               Beef Marketing
Alex Schumacher                              Environment
Debra Rasmussen                         Agricultural Economics
Madeleine Varkay                               Marketing
David Gue                               Agro-Processing
Davie Rae                                 Meat Grading
S. Morgan Jones                        Cattle Breeding/Research
Ray Trewin                            Beef and World Trade
Arlene Reyes                              Team Assistance
Barry Deren                        External Economics Reviewer



Page 62
Annex 8
Smallholder (C'attle Development Project
Docume-nts in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
PIP for the provinces of Henan, Anhui, Hebei and Shanxi
B. Consultant Staff Assessments
Economic Analysis Assessmnent - Barry Deren, External Examiner
Marketing Study - Madeleine Varkay
China Beef Marketing Study, - John Hall
Marketing Linkages - David. Gue
Competitiveness of China's EBeef Industry in Joining the WTO - Ray Trewin
China Beef Grading Report -- David Rae
C. Other
Provincial Project Proposals -- Provinces of Henan, Hebei, Anhui and Shanxi
Beef Cattle Sector Background Study - Northern China - Agriteam
Project Design Workshop Report - Agriteam Canada
Beef Marketing Analysis in C-hina - Ministry of Finance
Value-Chain Management in the Chinese Beef Industry - Agriteam Canada
Grading and Quality Assurance Workshop - Proceedings - Agriteam Canada
Bank Lending to the China ALgro-processing Sector, Guidelines for Investment -
David Gue
Financial Management Report - Provincial Project Management Office and FECC
Environmental Impact Assessment Report - China Agricultural University
Land Requisition and Resettlement Report - Project Provinces of Henan,
Hebei, Anhui and Shanxi
Environmental Management Plan - Bank/FECC



Page 63
Annex 9
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Eligibility Criteria for Subloan
1.    Household Eligibility Criteria. Household selection would be carried out by the local Animal
husbandry Bureau, assisted by the All China Women's Association. Eligibility criteria include:
(a)    prior experience in raising cattle;
(b)    sufficient financial resources to support the household loan package; and
(c)    adequate crop residues to feed cattle.
2.    Cattle Market Eligibility Criteria. Cattle markets, would be incorporated as registered
enterprises, subject to Chinese Company Law.  Subloan approval for financing cattle market
improvements would be subject to:
(a)    provide an acceptable plan to register as commercial enterprises within two years after
it is ready for operation;
(b)    provide a document showing that management have a minimum  of two years'
experience in cattle market operation and management;
(c)    agree to maintain technical, financial and environmental records as required by the
project; and
(d)    availability of at least 30% of the investment cost as equity contribution.
3.    Feedlot Eligibility Criteria. For subloan approval to finance feedlot improvements, feedlot
enterprises would be required to agree to the following:
(a)    registered or (plan to register within two years) the feedlots as commercial entities
subject to Chinese Company Law;
(b)    demonstration of cattle purchase contracts with project and non-project households, and
with processors for the offtake of finished cattle;
(c)    a minimum of two years' experience in feedlot operation and management;
(d)    proven financial resources necessary to profitably operate their business;
(e)    agreed to keep records and provide the technical, financial and environmental reports as
required by the project; and
(f)    availability of at least 30% of the investment cost as equity contribution.
4.    Breeding Cow Selection Criteria. Guidelines for selection of breeding heifers are as follows:
(a)    age - minimum of 18 months;
(b)    weight - minimum of 150 kg.;
(c)    conformity - straight back, balanced front and hind quarters, long back, well developed
brisket, no blemishes on leg joints and easy gait;
(d)    good disposition - no signs of excessive nervousness, but alert to surroundings;
(e)    genetic background - (i) Ram: preferably purebred or indigenous breed and (ii) Sire:
preferably from improved fresh or frozen semen; and
(f)    reproductive traits - well developed udder with four normal teats; no hardness or
lumps; no signs of abnormal genital tract development or discharge; has preferably
been cycling-well developed udder with four normal teats; no hardness or lumps; no
signs of abnormal genital tract development or discharge; has preferably been cycling.



Page 64
5.    Feed Mill Eligibility Criteria. The feed mills to be financed by the project would have to
meet the following criteria:
(a)    operation as commercial enterprises with autonomous management;
(b)    management have a minirnmum of two years' experience in feed operation;
(c)    agree to maintain technical, financial and environmental records as required by the
project; and
(d)    availability of at least 301 of the investment cost as equity contribution.
6.    Enterprise Eligibility Criteria. The beef slaughterhouses/processing plants to be financed
under the project would have to be technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially
viable are as follows:
(a)     registered as a comrmercial company under the Chinese Company Law  with
autonomous management and a Board of Directors;
(b)     demonstrable sources of counterpart funds and working capital;
(c)     have a minimum three years of proven profitable operation;
(d)     have demonstrated a viable beef marketing and promotion plans;
(e)     be capable of, and committed to adopt the project grading and food safety standards;
(f)     prepared to work toward achieving ISO-9002 certification or HACCP best practices;
(g)     have proven contract arrangements with feedlots for the supply of cattle, and
contracts with buyers for the delivery of finished product;
(h)     agreed to maintain techcnical, financial and environmental records as required by the
project; and
(i)     availability of at least 30% of the investment cost as equity contribution.



Page 65
Annex 10
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Beef Cattle Marketing Report
1.    Introduction. This summary report on the beef marketing study has been compiled from four
sources: the 1997 beef sector background study financed by CIDA; information complied by Bank
preparation missions; the 1997-98 Bank-funded study addressing risk analysis for beef producers; and
MOF's beef marketing study with recommendations for marketing and marketing strategy.
2.     Commercial cattle production is a relatively new endeavor in China's agriculture sector. Since
1991, beef production has doubled as the result of increasing demand by urban consumers for more
quality beef due to changing consumer tastes, increased consumer incomes and urbanization. The demand
for the purchase of large, commercial lots of fresh beef is driven primarily by increased consumer demand
for quality fresh or processed beef, by the hotel and restaurant trade and by increasing numbers of urban
supernarkets. Recent government policy changes have induced traditional beef producers to increasingly
shift toward commercialized production, using imported beef breeds and artificial insemination (Al) to
genetically improve indigenous cattle. The increased demand for quality beef cannot be fully satisfied due
to generally weak infrastructure in such areas as marketing, quality beef slaughter and processing, and the
dissemination of market information to producers, processors and commercial buyers. There is an urgent
need for more and better-integrated marketing, which would involve the forward contracting of graded,
quality-assured beef between processors and large institutional and commercial buyers and the backward
contracting of young feeder cattle between feedlot enterprises and household producers.
3.     This report summarizes (a) the quantitative demand analysis for project-generated beef,
(b) strategies for marketing live cattle and cut and processed beef from the project, (c ) medium to long
term risk assessment for project households engaging in beef production, and (d) discussion of viable
marketing mechanisms to ensure sufficient beef sales and risk minimization for beef producers.
4.    Project-Generated Output. The flow of cattle in the project would be through several channels
as follows:
cow-calf raising households would raise and sell weaned male calves to feedlots, or to other
fattening households,
cow-calf households would retain 12.5% of young heifers raised under the project as
replacements for culled breeding cows,
* project cow-calf households would have first-refusal to purchase replacement project heifers,
* fattening households purchasing weaned male calves would fatten them to market weight,
* feedlots, ranging in capacity from 100 head to 500 head per production cycle of 100-
180days, would purchase young feeder cattle from cow-calf households for finishing and
sale to processors, and
* project processors would have first-refusal to buy feeder cattle from project households.
5.    Household Production. Cattle production is based on the cattle output by agreed-upon project
household production models. Each province has designed specific models, geared to the financial status
of households and to available crop residues, to ensure that project cattle can be adequately fed and
maintained. The number of cattle per project household per year is determined by (a) the cow calving
rate, (b) cow and calf mortality, and (c) average age at weaning. Feedlots would purchase young cattle
from cow-calf raising households and feed these to an average 400 kg live weight (lwt) in 100-180 days.
The project would at full production by PY4 have available for sale 142,596 head of fattened (male) cattle
92,596 replacement heifers would be produced for sale as breeding stock (Table 2.3). Project-supported



Page 66
processors would utilize 110,000 head of cattle for conversion into 23,200 tons of dressed beef and beef
products. The remaining 32,596 head would be sold to other processors or to the cattle markets.
A. Demand Analysis of Cattle Supplies and Processing Capacity
6.     Assumptions. A project cattle demand analysis was undertaken, based on assumptions that the
project will promote a vertically integrated production system, linking cattle producers with processors,
markets and feedlots through forward contracting, and linking processors with markets and feedlots
through backward contracting, thereby ensuring improved capacity utilization. These assumptions
include: (a) project-generated male cattle are sold only to project-supported processors, where possible,
(b) project-supported processors buy only project cattle, (c) project-supported processors would aim to
reach a processing capacity utilization of 80% by PY5, and (d) project cow-calf raising households would
have first-refusal to purchase project-generated replacement heifers.
7.     During preparation, care has been taken in the selection of participating processors, based on
selection criteria that include (i) commercial business orientation, (ii) strong marketing ability,
(iii) modern production technology, (iv) strong financial capability, and (v) proven track records. The
provincial governments have also committed themselves to sound marketing strategies and product
promotion, beef product price differentiation based on quality and grading, and enforcement of adequate
regulatory measures to ensure quality production.
8.    Analysis. Two principal scenarios are utilized in the demand analyses for project cattle: (a) a
quantitative demand analysis of the marketing of fattened male project cattle to project processors, and
the marketing of female cattle as breeding stock within the project areas; and (b) a qualitative demand
analysis of the marketing of fattened male project cattle to targeted urban centers.
9.     Quantitative Demand Analysis for Fattened Male Cattle. The analysis based on full annual
processing capacity of 120,300 head of cattle and the current 58% capacity utilization (CU) rate. The
annual CU rate has been projected to increase from 58%, to stabilize at 80% from PY4 onwards. The
annual CU target percentage therefore determines the number of project cattle required by project-
supported processors. Corresponding to the increase in the CU rate, the demand for cattle would increase
from 111,800 per year in PYI to 221,800 head from PY4 onward, an increment of 110,000 head (Annex
2, Table 2.6). This processors' output could readily be sold, given (a) the spread-out nature of the
project's marketing areas, (b) access to numerous large and medium-sized urban centers, and (c) the
quality of the cattle. Any project cattle not processed by the project would be sold to non-project buyers.
Furthermore, non-project processing for processing project cattle has not been included in this
assumption.
10.   Quantitative Demand Analysis foir Replacement Heifers. At full production, the project would
generate a total of 142,596 female cattle (hteifers) per annum. Of these, 50,000 head per annum would be
retained by cow-calf households, based on a replacement rate of 12.5% (every 8 years) to replace aging
breeding cows (Annex 2, Table 2.3). This would leave an annual net surplus of 92,596 replacement
heifers for sale to outside sources, from PY4 onward. Two assumptions have been made for the sale and
disposal of the project-generated surplus heifers: (a) the principal market for project heifers will be the
four project provinces, and (b) project households requiring replacement heifers will be required to
purchase them from project cow-calf households that have surplus heifers.
11.   As indicated, the net inventory of heifers for sale to outside buyers is based on the total number
produced by the project less the number retained for project households. The analysis shows that the
market share for project heifers offered for sale to non-project buyers in the project areas would increase
from 2.3% in 1998 and stabilize at 5.2% in 2005. Selling these heifers will not be a problem, since this is
a rather low market share and project heifers will in great demand due to good genetic quality.



Page 67
12.   Qualitative Demand Analysis for Male Fattened Cattle. As indicated below, the successful
marketing of beef is largely deternined by two factors: competitiveness and access to markets. These two
factors are, in turn, are determined by product quality and access to the higher-priced market niche-
Consumer demand for beef would best be defined if elasticity data were available for various quality
grades of beef, determined by price differentiation. Since little or no beef grading presently exists in
China, such elasticities are not available. Those elasticities present in the literature are related to beef as a
single-priced commodity without regard to quality differentiation. Within these limitations, the consumer
demand for project-generated beef has been calculated for several macro-economic scenarios.
13.   Assumptions. In this analysis, the target markets are the five large cities surrounding the project,
namely Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Chongqing and Shenzhen. GDP growth rates projected to 2005 are
4% for Shenzhen, 70/o for Tianjin, 9% for Chongqing, 10% for Beijing and 12% for Shanghai.
14.   Two scenarios have been employed. Scenario A assumes a low GDP growth rate (6%) and low
household elasticity for beef consumption (0.5). Scenario B assumes a high GDP growth rate (8%) and a
high elasticity (1.5). These elasticities have been transformed into per capita beef consumption and into
total beef consumption by the urban consumer section of the combined five cities. The project output,
converted into tons of beef, has been calculated for the years 1996, 2001 (PY2) and 2005 (PY6). The
analysis is presented in the following table. The analysis indicates that the market share for project-
generated beef peaks at 9.7% in Scenario A and 5.9% in Scenario B. Such shares are small and would not
have difficulty in tapping the markets.
Table - Beef uptake and Market Shares by Urban Consumers under
Two Economic Scenarios
Year           Per cap beef    Urban         Beef demand    Project beef    Project beef
(kg)           population     (tons)         output (tons)    market share
(million)
Scenario A - Low GDP growth (6%) and low income elasticity for beef (0. 5)
1996                3.6          31,346        112,846              0            0%
2001 (PY2)           4.4         38,521         169,491          1,568           0.9%
2005 (PY6)           5.6         42,767        238,213          23,200           9.7%
Scenario B - High GDP growth (8%) and high income elasticity for beef (1.5)
1996                4.4          31,346        137,922              0            0%
2001 (PY2)           6.3         38,521        243,451           1,568           0.6%
2005 (PY6)           9.3         42,767        396,880          23,200           5.9%
B. The Market of Cut Beef and Beef Products
15.   Based on the findings of the Bank-supported beef marketing study, the beef industry in China
faces a number of opportunities and constraints. On the demand side, there has been: (a) an increase of 50
percent in beef consumption in urban areas during 1984-96 and a 10 percent increase in the rural areas,
(b) increasing purchases by large, urban supermarket chains and by the hotel-restaurant trade, (c)
increasing demand by large commercial and institutional buyers for quality beef cuts, available in
consistent grades.
16.   On the supply side, the studies found that (a) fresh, quality-controlled beef is in short supply,
since buyers of quality, fresh beef cannot easily find reliable suppliers, (b) Chinese frozen beef lower in
quality than imported frozen beef (in addition limiting export markets to the lower niche international
markets), (d) a national beef grading system based on quality is not in place in China, so that beef quality
cannot be standardized and differentiated on price; reducing incentives for production of quality pricing,
and (g) stronger regulatory support from the central government is needed to introduce beef grading and
regulatory enforcement of quality control in beef processing and slaughtering.



Page 68
17.    Many of the above listed supply issues are also institutional issues. These issues need to be
urgently addressed by government if the beef industry is to develop more efficiently. Government
involvement is therefore needed (a) to improve beef grading and quality control, (b) develop better
marketing channels to link buyers and sellers, and (c ) provide investment incentives to produce quality
beef based on differential pricing. The project has been designed to correct the three above-listed issues.
First, provincial governments are comrriitted to the introduction of grading and quality assurance
regulations, and central government is playing a leading role in developing these systems and ensuring
that these measures are accepted by the participating provincial governments. Second, guidelines for
price by grade would be developed and launched under the project. Third, the development of market
linkages between buyers and sellers are well defined under the project.
C. Risk Assessment of Project Households
18.    Producer Risk and Infrastructure Needs. The principal risk exposure of beef producers is
directly related to the marketing potential of the type and quality beef they produce, a factor over which
they have limited control. The producers will be able to respond to market requirements, if they have
access to the necessary infrastructure to receive the right market signals. This infrastructure consists
mainly of the provision of market informnation from buyer to producer. It must be transmitted to the
producer via the processors, markets, feedlot operators and local government agencies, and the
information must be relevant and timely. The most important information for the producer to act upon is a
consistent inflow of cattle prices covering the types and qualities of cattle he is producing or optionally
could produce.
19.    Risk Reduction Measures for Cattle Producers. Based on the above and other factors, a
number of measures can be taken under the project to reduce producer risk. These include assurance:
-   that farmers investing in cattle production have immediate access to technical support
services related to veterinary aLnd Al services and have access to advice on cross-breeding,
=   that marketing information is widely accessible to producers, either through local markets,
beef-trade buyers, producer organizations, and government extension offices.
e that household producers are committed to the forward contracting of young cattle to project
feedlots (to sell male calves) and of finished cattle to processors (to sell fully grown bulls)
and have necessary access to farmers' groups or markets (to sell young, female breeding
heifers), and
* that loans provided under the project to cattle-raising households have repayment terms for
principal and interest that are in line with household cash flows, especially during the first
few years.
20.    Development of Domestic Market for Chinese Beef. Government policies for stimulating the
beef subsector have been principally supply-driven, without sufficient attention to the demand side. Even
though the demand for beef is presently rising rapidly, prices are relatively high in consumer eyes
compared to pork. There will be an eventual maturation of the beef market. It is important for China to
understand that the beef industry cannot, over the longer term, rely solely on exports. Present beef
exports, due to low uniformity in quality aLrd supply, and quarantine restrictions, are mainly limited to
Hong Kong, the Middle East and Russia. The marketing emphasis must therefore be on the China
domestic market itself, which can be much better understood than external markets. The marketing issue
within China is not one of a lack the of domestic markets, but of the lack of market information and
infrastructure, which allows potential buyers and sellers to come together. This is evidenced by the
growing demand for high-quality fresh beef by Chinese processors, supermarkets and the hotel-restaurant
trade. This market cannot be replaced by imported beef which, by necessity, must be frozen. China has
therefore a unique and large potential market in which to sell fresh quality beef. This is the market that
should be targeted by Chinese beef producers.



Page 69
Annex  11
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Beef Grading, Inspection, Quality Assurance and Markets
1.      Meat Industry Programs
Within the beef industry in China, there is confusion about what should be included in such programs as
grading, quality control, quality assurance, HACCP, food safety, and whose responsibility it is to develop,
implement, administer, monitor and enforce such programs. The specialist on the appraisal mission
recommended that these programs could be divided into three areas to clarify the roles of government and
industry.
Grading                         Meat Inspection                          Quality Assurance
*   A program to provide meat    *   Regulations to define the standards for   *   A plant program which manages,
quality and meat yield         the operation of meat plants and          monitors and measures plant
assessment of beef carcasses.   include inspection of meat products,     processes against customer and plant
includes;                               requirements; includes;
*   HACCP program.                       a   Training plant staff in personal
*   Requirements are set by govemment.       sanitation and safe food handling.
*   Programs are developed and           *   Checking raw materials.
administered by the plants.         *   Auditing cutting and packaging
*   Audited by government.                   specifications.
*   Plants are responsible for staff training.  *   Checking transport vehicles.
*   Government provides technical        *   Includes food safety, measured
support through their plant and          against plant and govemment
regional inspection staff, as requested  standards.
by plants.                          *   Most plants have continuous
*   Does not require continuous              improvement programs within their
improvement.                             QA programs.
*   Industry driven -           *   Government driven - Industry         *   Industry driven.
Government facilitated.         feedback.
*   Developed by industry with    *   Developed by government with       a   Developed by industry.
government and academic         industry feedback.                   *   Administered by industry.
support.                    *   Government regulated.                *   Controlled by industry.
*   Government regulated.       *   Government administered.             *   Changes driven by industry.
*   Government administered.    *   Government enforced.
*   Government enforced.        *   Cost recovered from industry users.
   Changes driven by industry.   *   Changes driven by govemment.
Notes:
* The term 'government' refers to the central government, unless specifically noted otherwise.
* In most plants, the term 'quality control' has been replaced by quality assurance. The former involves inspecting to reject or
accept products whereas the latter involves controlling the process to produce acceptable products.
* ISO-9000, another quality assurance program, involves a certification program implemented by plants to provide process
control, thus insuring that products are consistent. Not necessary in plants with good quality assurance programs except
those that can benefit by marketing the program designation.
2.      Beef Grading
China does not have a comprehensive, standardized, industry-oriented beef grading system and the
Central Government is now developing one. The grading specialist recommended that (i) China should
develop one grading system, under one central ministry; (ii) the system should evaluate meat quality
rather than livestock quality, as this helps link market demand for meat to the production of livestock.;
(iii) grading should not be a right but a privilege, granted only to plants and other users who meet the
terms and conditions of the regulations; (iv) plants should be approved and monitored by the ministry;
(v) training should be provided to graders and industry stakeholders - producers, feedlots, packing plants,
end users, consumers; and (vi) consumers should be informed about the system.



Page 70
A grading committee should be established and should consider the following:
(a)    Scope. The system should be nationwide and voluntary. Only plants that pass inspection would
be qualified for grading.
(b)    Objectives. The system should have clear objectives as follows:
*      Provide a link between the quality and value of livestock from the producer to the quality
and value of meat to the consumer.
a     Compatible with other countries, as quality beef producing countries are moving toward
recognized world standards for beef quality.
*     Used by all stakeholders.
*     Operated at the lowest possible cost.
*     Incorporate grades for all qualities of meat; low, medium, high quality.
a     Reliable, and having the confidence of all users.
*     A process of reviewing, changing or upgrading the system, as required by industry.
*      Grade marks should be property of the government and their use strictly controlled.
*     Carcasses should be chilled a minimum of 24 hours before grading.
(c)    Structure
a     Industry stakeholders should provide recommendations to the central government to
develop the grading standards.
*     Chinese scientific meat and livestock expertise could provide assistance.
*     Government should implement grading regulations with input from producer, packer and
end user groups.
a     The central government and each province should appoint grade standards officers to
audit graders insuring that standards are applied accurately.
a     Central government would have overall authority within the system; all elements would
report to a central ministry of agriculture senior official.
a     Local graders would be trained to do the actual plant grading. Existing meat inspectors
could be trained to grade.
(d)    Grade Standards
A beef grading system model was developed for consideration by the government. The following issues
will need to be considered when developing standards:
*     Regulations should include an interpretation of industry terminology, terms and
conditions of grading, grading certificates, markings, trade requirements and
enforcement.
*     Regulations should define carcass dressing requirements.
*     Color chips, grading rulers or other tools could be used to reduce subjectivity.
It was recommended that the grading standard include seven quality grades encompassing all classes of
livestock, and three yield grades for high quality only. There may be two carcass maturity classes. The
seven quality grades would have the following general criteria:



Page 71
Beef Quality                          Suggested New Quality Grades
High Quality - 3 grades               Prime
Choice
Select
Medium Quality - 2 grades             Good
Commercial
Low quality - 2 grades                Cow
Bull
In combination with carcass maturity, weight, color and marbling, the seven grades would be classified as
follows:
Grade     Prime       Choice      Select      Good      Commer  Cow          Bull Grade
Criteria    Grade     Grade       Grade       Grade    cial       Grade
Grade
Maturity   Maturity 1  Maturity I  Maturity I  Maturity  Maturity  Maturity 2  Maturity 2
Class                                         I         I         Female    Male
Carcass   Over 250    over 250    Over 250    150 to    100 to    Any        Any weight
Weight    kg          kg          kg          250 kg    150 kg    weight
Meat      Pink red to  Pink red to  Pink red to  Bright    Bright    No      No require-
Color     bright red   bright red   bright red   red to    red to    require-    ment
dark red   dark red   ment
Fat Color  White      White       White       White to  White to  No         No require-
yellow    yellow    require-    ment
ment
Marbling  The same   The same   The same   No           No        No         No require-
minimum    minimum    minimum    minimum  minimum  require-    ment
as USA     as USA      as USA                          ment
prime      choice      select
To grade for carcass yield, the following carcass back fat cover grades are suggested:
Yield grade 1 - 3mm to 5mm fat
Yield grade 2 - 5mm to 10mm fat
Yield grade 3 - over 1 Omm fat
3.    Meat Inspection - Current Situation and Recommendations:
*     China has national meat inspection regulations but they may not be comprehensive in the
areas of plant design and construction, plant equipment, ante-mortem and product
marking.
a     Several government levels and departments are presently involved in meat and livestock
inspection. These include: Plant Hygiene under the Health Department, Plant Design
under the Commerce Department, live cattle inspection by the Animal Husbandry
Bureau; slaughtering by other departments such as the Food Company; and meat
inspection in the marketplace by other departments, including Commerce and Animal
Husbandry Bureau.
*     National meat regulations are applied locally by staff of the Provincial Animal
Husbandry Station.
*     Small plants are inspected by local authorities, while large plants are inspected by
provincial authorities.
*     Inspection costs in small plants are paid by the local government but large plants pay a
cost per head for inspection. Fees vary by county.
No information is gathered at the plants on livestock or carcasses that are inspected.



Page 72
*      Numerous illegal slaughter facilities operate in all provinces. In most cases, these
operations are not inspected nor do they pay inspection fees. They often exist to-allow the
evasion of inspection and slaughter fees.
*      The national regulations should cover all areas from livestock to plant operations and
labeling of meat products. These standards should be compatible with world standards.
*      The national regulations should be applied locally, supervised by the provinces and
audited periodically by the central government.
*      The meat inspectors' scope should be expanded to include inspection of incoming
livestock, plant design and construction, equipment, operations to labeling of meat
products. Animal inspection and trade enforcement should be linked to meat inspection.
*      Beef carcasses should be stamped or roller-branded with the inspection certification. All
packaged meat products should be identified.
*      The government should develop a HACCP program for pilot implementation in a plant
complying with the national regulations.
*      The fee structure for inspection should be standardized within the industry. Provincial
inspectors could likely be trained to grade beef carcasses for a fee.
4.     Market Survey
During the mission's visits to the various cities, contacts were made with four five star hotels, two local
markets, three supermarkets, a convenience store and a processor to discuss their beef requirements.
These interviews were conducted in Taiyuan, Beijing, Zhengzhou, and Hefei. The results of these
interviews are outlined below.
Hotels
US beef was considered the highest quality in all of the hotels. Australian or New
Zealand beef was second and Chinese beef third. All hotels used USA beef in their top
restaurants, Australian or N'iew Zealand for the coffee shop/room service/banquets and
Chinese beef in their Chinese food outlets and buffets.
*      China-produced beef shows,: inconsistent quality, cuts not weight ranged, meat quality
variations from tender to tough, not always chilled, most boxes show no grade marks,
cutting specifications vary, food safety is a major concern.
*      Several hotels commented that they would use more high quality Chinese beef if it were
closer to USA Choice in overall quality. Price was the main factor motivating the hotel
buyers to use more Chinese beef.
Local Markets
*      The two markets visited were in different provinces but both operators said the cattle
were inspected live (ante-mortem) and during slaughter (post-mortem) by government
inspectors. One market reported that meat was inspected a third time at the local market
outlet and the mission was shown a permit issued by the inspector that morning for the
meat being sold.
*      Meat was grouped in to three price categories and ranges were - rib/loin meat 12-15
Y/kg, chuck/round meat 10-14 Y/kg, rough cuts 8-13 Y/kg. Beef offals sold for almost
the same price as beef cuts 12 -14 Y/kg.
*      Pork prices in the same markets were approximately 20-30% lower.
*      Beef requirements set by local beef sellers included: young cattle (judged live by
dentition-two teeth maximurrL), red meat, good muscle conformation and some fat cover.
They stated consumers want meat that is red and fresh (as indicated by the color of the
meat hanging at the booth).
*      These markets are using mostly lighter cattle, probably Chinese cattle with minimal fat
cover. One buyer mentioned he liked selling heavier cattle.



Page 73
Retail Stores
One of the three stores visited sold fresh beef. Displayed were: one rib eye cut at 13.60
Y/kg and one cut of brisket at 14.40 Y/kg in a service case. None of the stores had frozen
beef. The store selling fresh beef had a quality assurance person checking the beef, and a
local inspector checked the store periodically. Beef was their #1 meat item and people
bought beef because it is not as readily available in their local area as pork. Consumers
want "young" tender, bright red meat with some fat cover.
All stores visited sold cooked beef in a "soft" (i.e. plastic-wrapped) package, made by
China processors. It is boiled and flavored with local spices. Prices ranged from 20-30
Y/kg. About eight brands were seen. This segment of the market appears to be saturated
with products. In addition to beef, donkey, pork and goat meat were sold.
Convenience Store
The store visited was part of a national retail chain, carried only cooked "soft" pack beef
at 40 to 80 Y/kg and donkey meat at 44.00 Y/kg. There were numerous brands to choose
from.
Ground Beef Processor
*     The processor visited produced ground beef products for a national fast food chain.
EBeef trimmings were sourced from China, Australia, New Zealand and the USA, but an
estimated 40-60% is of Chinese origin. The processor is under a management directive to
source 80% of beef locally, but availability and price are major factors.
-     The processor's main problem is in finding beef plants that can meet their food safety and
quality assurance requirements. The processor in question will provide staff to train
suppliers and assist them in developing these programs. Follow-up is provided by linking
the supplier to the processor by computer through their quality assurance staff and by
routine and random plant audits. Their plant programs assume there is no effective
inspection at any of the plants.
*     The number-one criterion they look for in potential suppliers is attitude (i.e. willingness
to comply with quality assurance programs).
*     They expect tariff prices to decrease and imported beef prices to drop once China is
admitted into the WTO. This will put pressure on local suppliers to lower their prices.
*     They also supply high quality chilled Chinese beef to several warehouse stores where the
processor manages the retail meat counters. They have been successful in retailing beef
using Western methods. Portion sizes are much smaller. Sales are increasing steadily.
Product is sourced from plants that have implemented beef programs under their
direction.
*     The processor was aware of several plants using Western consultants to help them
improve their operations.



Page 74
Annex 12
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Competitiveness of China's Beef Industry on Joining the WTO3
What China's expected accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) means for the competitiveness
of its beef cattle industry is the focus of tllis annex. The competitiveness of China's beef cattle industry
following joining the WTO, which will liberalize Chinese trading arrangements in many industrial and
agricultural areas, is important for the future development of the industry. If the industry looks like not
being competitive in supplying the type of product that will be increasingly demanded by domestic and
possibly international consumers in the fiuture, then there is little point in using scarce resources to
develop the production, slaughtering and marketing components of the industry to meet these evolving
demands. Our conclusion is that joining the: WTO will not fully liberalize trade in beef products except in
the distant future and that it will in any case provide opportunities to develop the beef cattle industry.
COMPETITIVENESS
Competitiveness as discussed above carn have different meanings. It may just refer to price
competitiveness where the prices of Chinese beef products are cheaper than those of its competitors. In
this report, competitiveness is given a broader meaning in which the efficient allocation of resources
underlying the Chinese beef cattle industry are paramount.
THE CHINESE BEEF CATTLE INDUSTRY
To appreciate the impact of China joining the WTO on its beef cattle industry there needs to be an
understanding of the key current and developing characteristics of the industry. The industry is currently
under-developed, consisting of a dual systemn made up mainly of traditional poorer-quality production,
slaughtering and marketing, and a smaller, more modem higher-quality component. But this system is
evolving more towards the higher-quality component in all respects, driven by an increasing consumer
demand associated with rising incomes.
This evolution towards higher-quality production does not mean the dominance of large operations. While
China's comparative advantage in low wage, labor-intensive activities, such as beef production, persists,
very large enterprises are unlikely to have rrnajor economies of scale, due to certain factors, very small
household operations may be efficient. The project is aimed at facilitating the development of the Chinese
smallholder beef cattle industry, especially towards the quality end of the market. Smallholders have a
number of advantages over larger operations. such as in the use of agricultural waste and manure. The
provision under the project of appropriate extension, public infrastructure, market informnation and
grading standards, in conjunction with the greater use of commercial practices such as contracts based on
quality-graded product, will assist the competitiveness of smallholders.
There are a number of impediments to beef cattle trade in China, both internally and internationally.
These impediments are driven by a strong commitment to self-sufficiency, even at the provincial level.
Quantitative restraints still apply to inter-provincial trade, and substantial tariff and non-tariff barriers
exist in the international beef trade. These aspects are a reflection of the heavy government involvement
in the industry that includes direct involvemeint in the slaughtering and marketing of product.
Based on a research paper prepared by Dr. Ray Trewin., Fellow, Asia Pacific School of Economics and Management,
Australian National University ( August 1999). The report is in the project files.



Page 75
CHINA JOINING THE WTO
There are a number of factors pushing toward China joining the WTO. The size of the Chinese economy
and its position in international trade means the WTO would not be an organization fully representing
world trade without China as one of its members. China also needs the benefits of WTO membership in
terms of greater market access, settlement of disputes and so on in an increasingly internationalizing
world economy. However, there are interests, both inside and outside of China, which see Chinese
membership of the WTO as an opportunity to extract concessions in respect of their interest. These and
other political factors have drawn out China's WTO accession process, which has now been going on for
nearly a decade.
Looking at specifics in relation to the beef cattle industry, China joining the WTO will put pressure on a
number of current arrangements in China's domestic beef industry. Some of the more transparent changes
from the accession proposals that have been put forward concern tariff cuts. Significant cuts in tariffs in
all meats have been put forward, more significant than those put forward in terms of grain inputs.
However, these tariff cuts may have only limited commercial impact on the domestic industry. Less
transparent formns of protection of the Chinese beef cattle industry will continue to have greater impact on
competition with imports than tariffs and will likely be liberalized much less rapidly than tariffs in actual
practice. These include sanitary and phytosanitary regulations and state trading arrangements. Slow
implementation of agreed reforms and continued use of less transparent arrangements to maintain self-
sufficiency objectives will probably markedly lessen the impact of reforms on the beef industry following
China's joining the WTO. In this perspective, China's beef industry is unlikely to face significant
international competition for a decade or more.
IMPACT OF JOINING THE WTO ON CHINESE BEEF CATTLE INDUSTRY COMPETITIVENESS
It will be useful, first, to consider what the likely impact of joining the WTO on the beef industry will be
on the efficient allocation of resources, on its competitiveness in this sense? Domestic resource cost
(DRC) approaches which compare the opportunity cost of factors of production relative to international
product prices take these aspects into account. Looking at analysis by Zhang (1997)1, it can be
appreciated that although China has been losing its comparative advantage in agriculture in general, this
has been maintained in beef cattle production because of its labor-intensive, but not land-intensive nature.
The comparative advantage of labor intensive activities, however, will decline over time.
How the competitiveness of beef cattle production lines up against other meat production and labor-
intensive manufacturing is best measured via Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) modeling based on
the efficient allocation of limited resources across the whole economy. Taking into account projected
productivity gains and technological progress, Rae and Hertel (1999)5 show that resources will not be
attracted away from Chinese beef cattle production and that it will be a net exporter at least up to 2005.
Productivity gains and technological progress, which are expected to be large in China's beef cattle
industry, are key events expected to follow trade liberalization.
Because of aggregation difficulties, partial equilibrium modeling relevant to the Chinese beef cattle
industry based on IFPRI's IMPACT model (Delgado et al 1999)6 was used to derive 'best guess', 'less'
and 'more favorable' scenarios of production, consumption and net trade. These scenarios basically
represent different income growth rates and have more impact on net trade via consumption than
production.
4 Zhang, X (1997), 'Comparative advantage in China's agriculture: An empirical analysis', chapter in 'China's agriculture at the
crossroads', Yang and Tian (eds), Mcmillan, London (forthcoming).
Rae, A. N. and T. W. Hertel (1999), Future developments in global livestock and grains markets: the impacts of livestock
productivity convergence in AsialPacific', paper presented to 43rd Annual Conference of the AARES, UNE, Christchurch,
January.
6 Delgado, C., M. Rosegrant, H. Steinfeld, S. Ehui and C. Courbois (1999), 'Livestock to 2020: The next food revolution', Food,
Agriculture and the Environment Discussion Paper No. 28. IFPRI, Washington D.C., May.



Page 76
Table 1: Projected trends in Chinese beef production, consumption and net trade,
2000-2015, with 1993 as reference year (million tons)
Year           Production                   Consumption                    Net trade
More      Best   Less       More        Best   Less       More       Best   Less
favorable  guess  favorable  favorable  guess  favorable  favorable  guess  favorable
1993               2.2                          2.1                           0.1
2000      2.8      2.8      2.8        2.8      2.7       2.6        0.0      0.1      0.2
2001      2.9      2.9      2.9        2.9      2.8       2.7        0.0      0.1      0.2
2002      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0      2.9       2.8        0.0      0.1      0.2
2003      3.1      3.1      3.1        3.1      3.0       2.9        0.0      0.1      0.2
2004      3.2      3.2      3.2        3.2      3.1       3.0        0.0      0.1      0.2
2005      3.3      3.3      3.3        3.3      3.2       3.1        0.0      0.1      0.2
2006      3.3      3.3      3.3        3.4      3.2       3.1        0.0      0.1      0.2
2007      3.4      3.4      3.4        3.5      3.3       3.1       -0. 1     0.1      0.3
2008      3.5      3.5      3.5        3.6      3.4       3.2       -0. 1     0.1      0.3
2009      3.6      3.6      3.6        3.7      3.5       3.3       -0.1      0.1      0.3
2010      3.7      3.7      3.7        3.8      3.6       3.4       -0.1      0.1      0.3
2011      3.8      3.8      3.8        3.9      3.7       3.5       -0.1      0.1      0.3
2012      3.9      3.9      3.9        4.0      3.8       3.6       -0.1      0.1      0.3
2013      4.0      4.0      4.0        4.1      3.9       3.7       -0.1      0.1      0.3
2014      4.0      4.0      4.0        4.2      3.9       3.7       -0.2      0.1      0.3
2015      4.1      4.1      4.1        4.3      4.0       3.8       -0.2      0.1      0.3
The 'more favorable' scenario refers to more efficient allocation of resources throughout the economy
and corresponds to greater actual trade liberalization following China joining the WTO. In this scenario,
aggregate beef production is not deemed to have changed as greater productivity following trade
liberalization in China will tend to appear in the form of less feed use and lower costs (Rosegrant et al
1995)7. Production and consumption will also evolve from lower to higher quality-product within this
aggregate over the course of the scenarios, and at a greater rate the faster income grows. The IMPACT
modeling suggests that even if world beef prices rise, world and Asian production will not rise because of
the wash out of subsidies and taxes in trade liberalization worldwide. At any rate, if Chinese production
would be stimulated to go up faster due to faster income growth, this might very well be counteracted by
beef cattle industry and other labor intensive production losing their comparative advantage earlier. This
might result in small net imports of beef.
The 'best guess' scenario pulls back from the 'more favorable' scenario and assumes China will continue
to protect is beef industry through non-tarifl and other trade measures, some of which would be agreed
transitional arrangements. Under this scenario, the impact of China joining the WTO, including the time
required for importers to establish themselves in the quality segment of the beef market to any significant
extent, would take a decade or so to occur. This timing will enable China to develop its beef cattle
industry in terms of production, slaughtering and marketing to provide the higher-quality product that its
consumers and the world will increasingly demand.
The 'less favorable' scenario corresponds to a severe Asian crisis in which there is less growth throughout
the region. In this situation the gains from trade liberalization associated with joining the WTO will be
smaller. The lower income growth will feed through in lower consumption. Production would be little
affected, resulting in an increase in net exports over the 'best guess' scenario. Net exports that are not
subsidized is one sign of the competitiveness of a traded commodity, but the Chinese beef cattle industry
could still be judged competitive as defined if it only supplied its domestic market and some niche export
markets (depending on how much distortion was imposed on the industry).
7 Rosegrant, M. W., M. Agcaoili-Sombilla and N. D. Perez (1995), 'Global food projections to 2020: Implications for
investment', Food, Agriculture and the Environment Discussion Paper No. 5, IFPRI, Washington D.C., October.



Page 77
CONCLUSION
In conclusion, by all measures the Chinese beef cattle industry can be expected to be economically
competitive on China joining the WTO. The competitiveness of this industry will be of the same nature as
that of other labor-but-not-land-intensive industries, such as labor-intensive manufacturing. In contrast,
land-intensive agricultural industries, such as grain production, may not be competitive in a new
liberalized environment for agricultural trade. Competitiveness in the labor-intensive, land-non-intensive
industries will last until growth of incomes and wages moves China's comparative advantage into more
skill and capital-intensive industries. This would not be expected in the near future. Financial viability of
cattle-raising and processing industries can expect to be cushioned against immediate liberalization of
China's international trade, both from a formal adjustment period built into the membership agreement
and from continued informal non-tariff barriers. These illiberal factors will not only cushion the industry
in competition with imports; it will also reduce the incentives in the industry to modernize, commercialize
and overcome barriers to internal trade within China. The hope is that the period preceding full
liberalization will be used nevertheless to modernize the industry and prepare it for full international
competition, and the proposed project will play a part in achieving this readiness. In any case, over the
horizon to 2015, small net exports of only about 5% of consumption are expected at the end of the period.
The range for bracketing scenarios is from imports of 3% to exports of 8%.



Page 78
Annex 13
Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
ft. INTRODUCTION
Project Overview. The project would assist the government's policy of developing its beef cattle
subsector in response to emerging market demand for quality beef. The project would put special
emphasis on assisting the smallholder level in the inland provinces of Henan, Hebei, Anhui and Shanxi.
These areas have surplus labor and natural resources, but productivity and quality of cattle are low due to
lack of technology and infrastructure. The project aims to increase production and improve quality and
marketability of small-holder produced cattle in order to enhance farmer incomes and reduce poverty.
These objectives would be achieved through: (a) introduction of improved breeding, feeding and
production technologies, (b) development cf commercial infrastructure which would provide the linkages
between production and markets: (c) increasing value-added to cattle production through processing, (d)
strengthening animal husbandry instituticns to better provide support services to farmers and (e)
upgrading of regulatory services to include market incentive-driven grading and quality control. The
project would promote the effective use of existing, low-value crop residues and other natural resources
which are presently going to waste, foster the development of commercial cattle production and
encourage the participation of women in prooduction.
Environmental Assessment Process. Consistent with the provisions of the Bank's Operational Directive
4.01, Environmental Assessment, the project was assigned to environmental screening category B due to
the generally small scale nature of the investments to be made under the project, the widely disbursed
nature of the individual production units across the four participating Provinces, the limited range of
environmental impact potentials, the exist:ence of widely available and well understood mitigation
measures for these impacts and the fact that. for the more substantive of these impacts, there are existing
and effective regulatory procedures in place within China to deal with them.
In accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Law of China, the project has been
subject of a full Environmental Impact Assessment Report prepared by the Environmental Impact
Assessment Center, China Agriculture University of Beijing which is an A-rated Institute for the purposes
of local regulatory procedures. This report, supplemented by additional work carried out by an
environmental specialist acting of behalf of the Bank, led to development of the environmental
monitoring and management procedures which have been incorporated into the project design. The
Report has been reviewed and cleared by the provincial Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs) of all
four participating Provinces and the State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA).
Environmental Overview. The project is intended to have environmentally beneficial effects in several
ways. On the production side, positive effects are two-fold: (a) the diversion of otherwise surplus crop
residues from burning to cattle feeding, and (b) increasing production and recycling of cattle manure as a
valuable source of organic fertilizer. On the processing side, the principal positive effect would be the
production of safer food for wholesale and retail markets due to improvement in hygiene in the beef
processing chain, the quality of the beef p.roduced from the production system and improved meat
inspection procedures which will be promoted through the project.
Nevertheless, the project also has some adverse environmental impact potentials which, to the extent
possible, have been minimized through project design in response to the findings and recommendations of
the environmental assessments. Residual impact potentials will be addressed through the environmental
monitoring and management procedures summarized in this report.



Page 79
The main environmental safeguards incorporated into the project design include:
Livestock Breeding and Production Systems
*     the livestock breeding program includes provisions to protect the gene pools of indigenous cattle
breeds to ensure that they are not lost during future development of the sector;
*     the project will not support range-fed production of cattle so as to avoid any potential to contribute
to over-grazing in the project provinces;
*     the focus of the project will be on small scale, household-based production using crop and other
residues (e.g. corn stalks) which, at present are burnt or otherwise disposed in ways which
contribute to rural area environmental problems in China. The livestock production system will
convert these residues into meat and livestock waste (manure) which will be collected and to be
returned to the farmers' fields;
*     the entire project design is based on Provincial and county level feed balances which have
indicated that crop residue resources will be sufficient to meet projected demands. These balances
will be kept under constant review as the project progresses to ensure that the rate of development
remains consistent with the availability of residue resources in the field;
*     small-scale household/village feedlots to be supported under the project must be pre-existing and
will be restricted to sizes which are not subject of environmental permitting procedures in the
United States8. In addition, the assessment procedures for determining the eligibility of
households/villages to participate in the program include provision for preparation of site-specific
environmental management plans to provide a basis for determnination of the acceptability of
proposals. This procedure is modeled on and exceeds procedures recommended by the US
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) for regulation of feedlots which fall below the
regulatory thresholds set down in the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES);
and
*     provisions have also been included to reduce the transfer of zoonotic diseases to the participating
farm families.
Livestock Processing
*     investments in improved livestock processing facilities will be focused on existing enterprises
which are already subject of regulatory control by Chinese Environmental Protection Bureaus
(EPBs);
*     all participating  enterprises must be  capable  of complying  with  relevant government
environmental regulations after project supported investments and no disbursements will be
authorized without prior presentation of regulatory clearances by the relevant EPBs; and
*     current government-prescribed standards for occupational health and safety must be complied with
in all participating enterprises.
Overall Project Management
*     environmental monitoring units and budgets for environmental mitigation are in place at all project
management offices and project enterprises.
B. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES
The description of project activities is based upon the information provided in Annex 2 of this document,
as amended following appraisal in May, 1999.
There are presently no environmental regulations governing development and operation of concentrated animal feeding
operations (CAFOs) in China In the absence of such regulations, the design and regulatory guidelines applied by the US
Environmental Protection Agency through the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) have been followed in
development of the project concept.



Page 80
Project Activities Summary. The Project would support the government's policy of developing its beef
cattle subsector in response to the emerging market demand for quality beef. The project would have a
strong commercial marketing orientation through the production, processing and marketing of quality
beef. The project would involve the four project provinces of Henan, Hebei, Anhui and Shanxi. These
provinces have a combined population equivalent to that of the United States. In total, 17 prefectures, 73
counties and 326 townships would be directly involved, with a total of 138,488 participating rural
households. There are four main components of the project:
A. Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement Component
Breed Improvement
Feed Improvement
B. Cattle Production
Household Cow-Calf Production
Household Cattle Fattening
Feedlot Production
C. Marketing Development Component
Live Cattle Markets
Beef Market Linkages
-Slaughterhouse Upgrading
-Market Infonnation System
-Beef Grading, Quality Assurance and Meat Inspection
-HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point)
D. Institutional Strengthening Component
Animal Husbandry Bureau Strengthening
Training
Research and Development
Strengthening of PMOs
The above-listed activities would be implemented as an integrated cattle production system, ranging from
breed improvement through production, processing and supported by infrastructure development. The
Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement Componlent would ensure a supply of cattle of improved genetic
quality for breeding and fattening. Cattle feeding would be heavily dependent on the utilization of crop
residues and oilseed cakes (residues from vegetable oil production), with only small amounts of corn
concentrate (8% of total feed quantity) for feeding late-pregnant and lactating cows and young calves.
Young cattle produced by cow-calf raising households under the Cattle Production Component would
ensure that adequate cattle supplies were available for project-supported slaughtering, processing and
marketing. The Marketing Linkages Component would support the establishment of commercially-
oriented cattle wholesale markets; assist in the improvement of cattle slaughtering and beef processing
plants; and support food safety, beef grading, quality assurance and meat inspection programs. The
Infrastructure Strengthening Component would support veterinary, extension and Al support services to
be delivered to the project by the Provincial Animal Husbandry Bureaus; provide training, support
research and development; and support project management through the strengthening of the Project
Management Offices.



Page 81
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT POTENTIAL
The project has both beneficial and adverse environmental impact potentials. Regarding beneficiaL
impacts; the overall concept of the project was to simultaneously:
(a)     support the government's policy of improving standards in the beef production sector which,
amongst other things, has significant public health benefits due to reductions in the incidence of
un-hygienically processed products passing through to retail outlets9;
(b)    improve farm household incomes through increased beef production productivity; and,
(c)     develop productive uses for existing crop production residues which otherwise go to waste or,
even worse, are burnt, thus contributing to air pollution which is pervasive throughout China.
Regarding (c), the predominant crop residue throughout the project provinces is corn stalks which, if
ploughed into the fields, provide a low grade source of organic material and nutrients (mainly
phosphorous) or, if burnt, provide a very low grade source of carbon (ash) and potassium (or a very low
grade household fuel which is a major contributor to indoor air pollution). If these residues are
ammoniated and fed to cattle, they are converted into meat, processing by-products and manure. The
manure, when applied to farmers' fields, provides a much-valued source of organic material and nutrients,
principally nitrogen, which can significantly enhance soil structure and fertility although, if produced in
too large a quantity in any particular place, can also be a source of environmental problems.
The main negative impact potentials and their mitigation can be summarized as follows:
(a)     The introduction of foreign cattle breeds could contribute to adverse biodiversity impacts due to
reduction in the use and maintenance of domestic breeds which are best adapted to local
environmental conditions. The project provinces of Henan and Shanxi, which are host to
indigenous cattle breeds, would continue to undertake, using non-project funds, indigenous cattle
improvement programs, with project support for technical assistance and training.
(b)      The feed demand generated by cattle raised under the project may exceed the resource production
capacity of local environments which, in turn, may lead to over-exploitation of natural resources.
Depending on the types of resources concerned, this could lead to soil erosion or even adverse
impacts on biodiversity if the resources being used are under threat. Carefully updated forage
balance calculations by project county would be used as the basis for incremental cattle
production.
(c)      Those activities of the project which involve concentrations of cattle (cattle markets and small
scale feedlots and processing plants) would create sources of concentrated animal waste
production which represents a threat, primarily, to water quality and human health and, to a much
lesser extent, air quality. Strict guidelines, backed up by local environmental law enforcement,
would ensure that no detrimental effects from waste or effluent concentrations would negatively
affect the environment or human health.
9 It should be noted that, notwithstanding such benefits, livestock development projects such as this have also been criticized by
some NGOs for: (a) contributing to increased beef consumption in China which may adversely affect public health due to an
increase in the incidence of circulatory and related diseases which have been linked to increase meat consumption; and, (b)
diverting grain best used for human consumption to cattle production. Regarding (a); per capita beef consumption in China is less
than 3% of that in western countries and, in any event, the type of beef produced under the project will be low-fat due to the lack
of grain feeding and reliance on non-castrated males as store stock for fattening. Regarding (b), project feed balances indicate
that 92% of all feed consumed in the project will be corn stalks, oilseed cake or bran; none of which are used for human
consumption. In any event, grain feeding of cattle in China is not profitable.



Page 82
(d)     Concentrations of cattle in household environments present a threat human infection by zoonotic
diseases. Site determination for household cattle raising has taken this potential hazard into
account, and all cattle will be monitored for two of the most common zoonotic diseases: TB and
brucellosis.
(e)     Those components of the project which involve the manufacturing and/or processing activities
(the feed mills and the upgraded slaughterhouses) could lead to production of waste water and air
pollutant emissions with attendant impacts.  Compliance with the inclusion of budgeted
mitigation measures is conditional to subloan approval for such activities and will be monitored
closely throughout the project's lifespan.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PLAN
The project design includes a wide variety of measures which are intended to either completely eliminate
or substantially mitigate adverse impact potentials. In the following sections, the project design,
environmental management and environmental monitoring procedures proposed to deal with each of the
above issues is described.
Loss or dilution of indigenous genetic resources. To balance indigenous breed improvement with the
introduction of foreign genetic lines, the project will provide support to participating Provinces in two
important activities under the project: (i) upgrading existing indigenous breeds to serve as a gene pool
from which to develop cross-breeds; and, (ii) developing a cross-breeding strategy to maximize the
adaptation of cross-bred stock to local condlitions. These activities are already being undertaken but the
project would support training and technical assistance to strengthen the effectiveness of these programs.
Monitoring of progress on these activities will be undertaken as part of routine project supervision by
Bank staff.
Excessive feed demands. This issue has been addressed primarily through project design. Two strategies
have been adopted:
(a)    It was decided, following initial environmental assessment, that the project should not include
activities dependent on the use of natural pastures or exploitation of communally managed land
due to the presently over-grazed status of many such areas and uncertainties as to how to define
and enforce stocking rates which would be sustainable in the long term. Thus it was determined
that the project should rely totally on stall fed production systems using crop residues which are
otherwise unused; and
(b)    The project design is based on County-based forage and grain balances prepared by the respective
Animal Husbandry Bureaus'. These data will be utilized during supervision to ensure that: (i)
existing forage balances will support existing and incremental (non-project and project) ruminant
populations; (ii) no seasonal imbalances will result due to project intervention; and, (iii) to plan
the addition of participating cattle-raising households. The forage balance table will be included
in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). During implementation, each county AHB would
prepare, on a 6-month basis to coincide with supervision missions, updated feed balances. These
will be spot-checked by the mission. The Monitoring and Evaluation Units (MEUs) attached to
the local PMOs will be responsible for this work. The cost in terms of office support and data
collection will be borne from Project counterpart funds assigned for this purpose. The estimated
budgets, agencies responsible and monitoring schedules are set out in Table 1.
These balances are the foundations of the analysis which produces the very precise livestock numbers included in the project
schedules developed by the local implementation agencies



Page 83
Table 1 - Environmental Mitigation Plan (EM2P) for Forage Balance Monitoring
Activity     Agency(ies)  Monitoring          Objectives                      Budget
Responsible  Schedule
Forage and   Local AHB    report at 6 month  -adequate crop byproduct         Y 10,000/
Grain        Local MEU   intervals            supplies                        county/yr.
Balance      Local EPB                        -correct project household
Monitoring                 Supervised by      distribution                    Source:
spot checks and    -seasonal crop byproduct       counter-
ex-post reviews    supply sustainability           part funds
by Bank missions  -verification of crop byproduct
utilization
Waste production from household calf production. Environmental mitigation measures related to
household production need to take account of reduction of odors, dust and water pollution. The most
important mitigation factors are twofold: (a) the small production size of up to two breeding cows with
three or four calves per household; and (b) the continuous disposal of all solid wastes as organic fertilizer
of household plots. Disposal of liquid wastes will not be required  as such waste drains into the soil.
Cattle sheds will not have hard-top flooring, with the exception of households raising ten or more
fattening cattle, which will be required to achieve floor construction standards similar to small-size
feedlots.
Notwithstanding the small size of individual production units, applicants for the program will be required
to provide certain pro-forrna data relating to environmental aspects as part of the submissions to
participate and these will be reviewed by the environmental staff of the PMO as a routine activity. The
mitigation plan is summarized in Table 2.
Table 2 - Environmental Mitigation Plan for Household Cattle Production
Activity          Agency(ies)         Monitoring             Objectives              Budget
Responsible         Schedule
1. Apply for      1. Household, PMO,   Monitoring indicators:   - Adequate public health  Per
household permit.  local government.    -Compliance with EPB   conditions            household
2. Review and     2. PMO, EPA         regulations.           - Absence of air, water,   Per year:
approve cattle                        - Adequate manure      ground pollution
shed design.                          disposal.              - Increased cattle      Y 500
3. Review crop    3. AHB, household    - Number of cattle    production efficiency   ($60)
byproduct                             within permitted       - Compliance with EPB
availability.                         numbers.               and Project standards   Source:
4. Review manure  4. AHB, household,   - Location of
disposal          EPA                 shed/cattle from human                         project
method(s).                            dwellings.                                     budget
5. Clear household  5. PMO, EPA       -Completion or status
for entry into                        of training.
Project.                              -Understanding of
6. Provide training  6. PMO           regulations.
7. Establish      7. PMO, EPA         -Utilization of crop
monitoring                            byproducts.
indicators.
8. Periodic       8. PMO, EPA, Bank   Monitoring frequency:
supervision.                          -continuous;
9. Institute      9. Local government,  supervision missions.
compliance and    PMO
penalty system                        Reporting:
-6-month intervals,
based on spot checking.



Page 84
Waste production from small scale feedlots, villages markets and veterinary stations. The project
would support upgrading of about 130 existing small to medium sized feedlots dispersed across the four
project provinces. They will be phased in gradually, based on the gradual increase in incremental project
output of young feeder cattle and in response to actual demands. The phasing adopted for the purposes of
project scheduling is shown in Table 3 which indicates that about 60% of the feedlots will be very small
(100 head capacity) while the remainder are distributed fairly evenly between 200, 300 and 500 head
units.
Table 3 - Projected Phasing, Number and Location of Feedlots by Province
Feedlots               PY1       PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5          Total
________                   ~~~~~130
Anhui                                                                         17
200 head                   4         8         4                             16
400 head                                                                      0
500 head                             I 1
Hebei                                                                         50
100 head                  14        13                                       27
300 head                   9        10                                       19
500 head                   4                                                  4
Henan
100 head                            51                                       51
Shanxi
500 head                    _        6         6                             12
In the absence of any domestic regulatory procedures covering such enterprises, the project has relied on
criteria defined by the US Environmental Protection Agency to determine maximum animal feeding
operation production unit sizes and otherwise govern the development of procedures for evaluating these
proposals as they emerge.
The 1972 Amendments to the US Clean Water Act cover regulation of emissions feedlot-type livestock
production systems. Within the general class of such "Animal Feeding Operations" (AFOs), a sub-class,
referred to as Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFOs), is identified for the purpose of
determining the need for permitting procedures. A CAFO is defined as:
(a)    an AFO with a capacity of more than 1,000 animal units: or,
(b)    an AFO with a capacity of between 301 - 1,000 animal units if it discharges pollutants into
surface waters either directly (i.e. the surface waters which actually pass through the facility) or
indirectly via a constructed conveyance system (e.g. a pipeline installed for the specific purpose).
In general, only CAFOs are subject to permitting requirements under the US National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) which prescribes the basic conditions under which pollutant discharges
may be made under the Clean Water Act.
As mentioned, China presently has no regulations covering animal feeding operations and, in the absence
of such regulations, the project design has applied the US criteria in the following ways:
(a)   the maximum capacity of AFO permnissible under the project will be 500 animal units (the great
majority; around 60%, are expected to be of around 100 unit size although this will be determined
by individual participants); and,



Page 85
(b)    no AFO will be approved for financing under the project if; (i) there is a permanent stream
passing through the site, and/or (ii) there is already or proposed any hydrological connection
between the AFO and any pennanent stream.
In addition, the project design criteria go beyond the US criteria insofar as all AFOs to be financed
through the project will be subject of a project-based permnitting process incorporating the supply by
applicants of certain prescribed information and the evaluation of these by staff of the relevant PMO in
consultation with the relevant EPB". These applications also apply for village markets and veterinary
service stations to be supported under the project. Local PMOs would have ongoing responsibility
for ensuring that feedlots and markets comply with the terms of their operating permits.
The minimum information to be provided in an application for a feedlot, market or vet station permit is as
follows12: Assistance should be requested by permit applicants from local EPB staff with the procedures
leading to permit approval and subsequent compliance.  Local EPB staff to be involved in permit
approval and environmental monitoring should receive relevant and adequate training beforehand.
(a)    A description of the proposed feedlot, market or veterinary station, including the numbers of
cattle to be maintained throughout the year, the feeding strategy to be employed, the source of
feed, the sources of cattle and the likely destination of the finished cattle.
(b)    A site plan which should show the layout and general composition of the feedlot including:
(i)   The general layout of the feedlot, market or vet station with respect to adjacent housing,
roads and other physical features of note particularly surface waters;
(ii)  The slope of the site with particular emphasis on the identification of drainage and the way in
which water drains off the site;
(iii)  The important construction features of the feedlot, market or vet station, such as the location
of roofed areas and concrete slabs;
(iv)  The location of manure storage and handling and the manner in which drainage from this
would be controlled; and,
(v)  The location of any other important features of the site such as feed storage areas.
(c)    Site Investigations indicating what studies have been made in any site to identify problems that
might result from the use of the site. These should include, but not be limited to:
(i)   Soil characteristics with specific emphasis on soil texture (the proportion of sand, silt and
clay) and the presence or absence of soil horizons (layers) that might impede the vertical
movement of water;
(ii)  Estimates of the water flow off the site as a result of rainfall and of day-to-day watering and
site cleaning activities; and,
(iii) The location of the channels through which water would be expected to drain off the site and
the final destination of this water, particularly with respect to water courses.
Under US procedures, this is an option for AFOs less than 300 animal units in size or for AFOs of between 301 and 1,000
animal units in size which are not classified as CAFOs, depending on particular circumstances and at the discretion of the
relevant regulatory authority.
12 It should be noted that the PPMO will provide guidelines to each of the PMOs on most of the following so that it will be fairly
easy for applicants to identify the necessary design criteria and fill out the form.



Page 86
(d)    The mitigation measures that are included in the site design as a result of the investigations
undertaken in (iii) above and also any operational procedures that would be adopted in order to
minimize environmental problems. Particular attention must be given to the reduction of potential-
problems related to odor, flies, noise or dust;
(e)    A manure and liquid waste management plan should be provided that identifies:
(i)  the volumes of manure and liquid wastes that would be produced through the year;
(ii)  the volumes that would need Ito be stored between field disposal events;
(iii)  the manner in which the manure would be protected form direct rainfall and in which
drainage from the manure storage site would be controlled; and,
(iv)  the likely areas for the disposal of the manure and the arrangements might be made with
farmers, or others for the removal of the manure.
(f)    Public Consultation. A descriptiort of the consultation with adjacent residents and of their support
or rejection of the feedlot, market or vet station development plans.
Table 4 summarizes the environmental mitigation plan for feedlot production while Table 5shows the
budget allocations.
Table 4 - Environmental Mitigation Plan for Feedlot Operation
Activity         Agency(ies)      Monitoring Schedule           Objectives
Responsible
1. Prepare site    1. Feedlot     - Supervise construction for  - No public health or safety
plan             Applicant        cornpliance with Permit        hazard
2. Carry out site   2. Feedlot    - UJpdate forage balance for area   - No discharge into ponds,
investigation.   application, with                              lakes,
EPA, PMO and   - Prepare phasing in of cattle  rivers, roads.
local           numbers and production
government.      schedule                      - No air or noise pollution.
Dept. of Health
- Inspect completed feedlot:  - No ground water
3. Develop       3. Applicant,    floors, drainage, proximity,   contamination.
mitigation       EPA, PMO         overall building standards
measures                                                        -Sustainable arrangements
- Conduct training courses    for waste offtake by
4. Prepare       4. PMO, EPA                                     interested parties.
manure and                        - Carry out 6-monthly
liquid waste                     inspections for: solid and liquid   -no accumulation of liquid
management plan                   wastle disposal                or solid wastes.
5. Have public    5. PMO,
consultation     Applicant, local   - Provide mitigation training to
government       feedlot management and workers
- Carry out periodic spot checks.
6. Obtain        6. Applicant,
clearance for    PMO, local
building permit   government
Project budgets for feedlot establishment and management include: (a) construction, (b) training, and (c)
M&E during implementation. Charges are based on feedlot capacity.



Page 87
Table 5 - Estimated Budget for Environmental Mitigation for Feedlot Production
Feedlot Size      Construction \1  Training \2    M&E               Total Budget
Program\Yr. \3  (Yuan) \4
100-head            Y4,000              Y800         YI,000            Y9,800
200-head             Y6,000             Y800         Y1,500           Y14,300
300-head            Y7,000            Y 1,000        Y2,500           Y10,500
400-head            Y9,000            YI ,000        Y3,000           Y25,000
500-head            Y10,000            Y1,200         Y4,000          Y31,200
\l Construction would entail: packed floors, liquid manure drainage, solid manure storage.
\2 Training: liquid and solid waste handling, public health aspects, M&E program, compliance regulations
\3 M&E program per Year: office support, report preparation, data collection. Staff salaries are excluded.
\4 Includes construction, training, and M&E for 5 PYs.
Zoonotic disease threats. Ruminants can transmit infectious diseases to humans when in continuous
close proximity to them, or when humans ingest or contact infectious discharges. Two common zoonotic
diseases are pulmonary and intestinal tuberculosis (transmitted from livestock and poultry) and
Brucellosis (transmitted by large and small ruminants). To ensure that zoonotic spread will not occur, the
following measures will be taken:
*     location of cattle sheds away from human dwellings
*     location of feedlots away from villages
*     adequate waste disposal to prevent direct contact and contamination of groundwater or streams and
rivers with seepage or surface runoff
Budgets and M&E measures are incorporated in those dealing directly with feedlots. The location of
household sheds will be subject to initial evaluation and approval by local PMO upon the selection of
project households, based on the evaluation of their facilities and available land. Project cattle dying
during implementation will undergo a post mortem examination to diagnose the cause of death. This is
done for insurance purposes and future disease prevention. Zoonotic diseases are reportable diseases so
that measures can be taken to prevent further spread. The mitigation plan for zoonotic diseases is shown
in Table 6.
Table 6 - Environmental Mitigation Plan for Zoonotic Disease Control
Activity  Agency(ies)      Monitoring Schedule    Objectives                 Budget
Responsible
Zoonotic  -Local PMO and  Continuous.               -To prevent occurrence of  Included in
disease    AHB                                      zoonoses                 existing
control   -Regional        Monitoring triggered by  - To ensure adequate     Veterinary
veterinary      death of cattle, or diagnosis  public health protection    Services
diagnostic lab    in live cattle or humans.    - To prevent spread of  budgets.
-Local health                             diagnosed zoonoses
authority       Location of household
cattle sheds and feedlots to
be approved as part of
entry into the project



Page 88
Wastes from manufacturing/processing activities. Of the five enterprises to be supported under the
project, one will be new, three will be uplgrades of existing operations and one will be an expansion of an
existing operation. The schedule of pollution control investments required for these enterprises 's as
follows:
*     Hebei Huaxing - new pollution control facilities to be installed;
*     Henan Tanghe (upgrade) - existing pollution control facilities to be upgraded as part of general
upgrade of the whole operation;
*     Henan Zhoukou (upgrade) - project will provide upgraded meat packing facilities which will not
change pollutant discharges. Existiing treatment plant is sufficient to handle wastes;
*     Shanxi Lunda Meat Co. (expansion) - the existing treatment plant will be upgraded to handle
additional waste water flows; and
*     Anhui Yumei Meat Co. (upgrade) - a new waste treatment system will be installed to handle
wastes from both current and increased production.
Establishment/expansion and operation of slaughterhouses are regulated under Chinese environmental
regulations and all participating enterprises will be required to secure new operating permits to cover their
altered operations. The first stage in the process involves preparation of environmental impact
assessments covering the proposed development which, subject to approval of the project concept, is
followed by review and clearance of waste treatment systems designs by the relevant EPB. Project funds
will not be disbursed until proof of t]hat clearance is presented to the PMO. Subsequently, the
commissioning of the treatment plants requires certification by the EPB and submission of periodic self-
monitoring reports is mandatory. These p;rocedures function effectively in China and there are numerous
competent engineering design institutes offering services in the design of small scale waste water
treatment plants as there are suppliers offering package treatment systems designed to comply with
relevant national standards even under the intermittent operational conditions of slaughterhouses.
The mitigation steps to be followed within the project are summarized in Table 7. Reports on the
environmental conditions in slaughtering and processing plants would be submitted on a quarterly basis to
the appropriate county or city environmental protection bureaus in accordance with normal procedures.
The provincial environmental bureaus would also be appraised quarterly of the environmental conditions
associated with the operation of the project. Summary environmental reports would be submitted to the
CPMO on a six-monthly basis for review by the Bank. These reports would document the levels of
compliance achieved by the facilities, describe the situations in which it has not been possible to achieve
compliance and the measures that are to be. taken to ensure that the provincial standards are adequately
met.



Page 89
Table 7 - Environmental Mitigation Plan for Slaughtering and Processing Enterprises
Activity       Agency(ies)       Monitoring Schedule           Objectives
Responsible
1. Prepare EIA   1. Applicant, EPB   1. Follow Project EIA report and  -Environmentally
Report.                          EMP guidelines.               compatible operation.
2. Obtain      2. PMO, EPB,
clearance of the  Bank                                         -Example of Best Practices
Report.                                                       in environmental impact
3. Apply for    3. Local                                       mitigation.
Operating      government.
Permit.                                                        - Compliance with China
4. Complete    4. Applicant,     4. In consultation with PMO and  EPB laws and regulations.
Expansion,     PMO               in accordance with allocated
including                        Project budgets.              -In-house Quality Assurance
pollution                                                      program for environmental
control system.                                                monitoring to be integral
5. Establish   5. Applicant                                    part of Brand name-based
Environmental                                                  marketing strategy for
Monitoring Unit                                                quality beef.
(EMU)
6. Obtain      6. Applicant,     6. See outline of indicators and
training for    PMO              monitoring technique in EMP.
EMU.
7. Establish   7. Applicant,
indicators and    EPB, PMO
monitoring
system.
8. Establish    8. Applicant,    8. Monitoring to be continuous
reporting       PMO              as part of HACCP/ISO-9002
system.                          program; reporting to PMO
9. Establish   9. Applicant,     quarterly. Full reports to be
Quality         PMO, EPB         annexed biannually to Bank
Assurance                        supervision mission materials.
systems.
E. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MONITORING
Description of Monitoring Measures and Indicators. Environmental Monitoring measures and
indicators have been developed for: participating households; feedlots, markets, service stations, and
slaughtering/processing plants. Some of these have already been referred to in the text, but all have been
tabulated in Table 8.



Page 90
Table 8 - Environmental Monitoring Measures and Indicators by Project Component
Project           Monitoring Measure(s)/Indicator(s)               Unit/Measure
Activity                                                                                  l
Household Cattle  Available crop byproducts               Kg/head
Production       Number of cattle                         No. I<yr; >I yr.
Shed design                              as per PMO format
Environmental impact training            certificate
Visits by EPB, PMC)                      household survey
Waste disposal for fattening HHs         verified before Permit
Manure disposal                          verified: contract or self-use
Zoonotic Disease  Cattle proximity to dwellings           Verified
Control          Public health                            Public Health Bureau reports
Diagnosis of reportatble disease         AHB report
Feedlots         Feedlot capacity                         As agreed per permit
Actual cattle turnover/yr.               Production report
EMU in place                             Supervision verification
Training received                        Supervision verification
Solid and liquid drainage systems        Verification of operation
Pollutants discharge into watersheds     EPB report(s)
Construction quality                     Supervision verification
Feedlot management                       Supervision verification
Public consultation                      Interviews with nearby dwellers
Supervision reports; EPB reports
Workers' safety                          Verification of compensation
reports
Construction/equipment for pollution control  Verification of budget utilization
in place                                 and supervision inspection.
Slaughtering/    Air emissions                            )
Processing Plants  Solid wastes                           )
Liquid effluents                         ) Relevant national standards
Dust                                     )
Health & Safety procedures               )
Compliance with EPB regulations          EPB report.
Public consultation                      Survey from adjacent dwellers.
Training received                        Supervision reports and verification.
In-house EMU functional                  Supervision verification.
Construction/equipment for pollution control  Verification of budget utilization
in place                                 and supervision inspection.
Feed Mills       Air emissions                            )
Dust                                     ) Relevant national standards
Worker and Health safety                 )
Public consultation                      Interviews with local residents
Compliance with EPB regulations          EPB report.
Training received                        EPB report.
In-house EMU functional                  PMO report.
Supervision verification/monitoring
reports.
Construction/equipment for pollution control  Verification of budget utilization
in place                                 and supervision inspection.
Monitoring and reporting procedures. EIA monitoring is divided into (a) the monitoring of industrial
entities such as slaughter houses, processing plants, and feed mills, and (b) monitoring of cattle household
production and feedlots. Agencies responsible for monitoring are indicated in Tables 1, 2, 4, 6 and 7.
Organization. A technical environmental monitoring group would be established under the Provincial
PMO of each project province and under local county-level PMOs, with responsibility for day-to-day
management of environmental activities during project implementation. Senior staff of this group will be



Page 91
familiar with environmental issues related to agriculture and, generally, are expected to be seconded from
local EPBs. Feed mills and slaughtering/processing plants would have their own in-house Environmental
Management Units as is current practice in China.
The EMU's would:
*  review compliance of project funded facilities with the existing regulations,
*  undertake and/or supervise minor ongoing impact assessment activities for the establishment of new
feedlots or other facilities introduced later in project implementation, and
*  provide advice and design inputs to other project components on environmental issues (an example of
this would be in the design, location and management of manure storage systems)
*  assist PMO in reviewing and clearing construction permits
*  undertake all technical monitoring and reporting, and
*  prepare M&E reports at the appropriate time.
F. CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
Training Programs. Training has been arranged for all project participants in accordance with their
technical needs. This includes environmental impact mitigation and monitoring, which will be directed to
the EMUs to be established in slaughtering/processing plants. In addition, participating households would
receive basic training in environmental protection. The following schedule provides information
regarding training content and estimated cost. Training is to be synchronized just before the onset of
project activities so that knowledge is fresh and up to date. The training schedules is shown in Table 9.
Table 9 - Environmental Impact Mitigation Training Programs
Component                Training Programs
Households               -feeds and feeding
-composting; ammoniated straw production; ensilaging
-basic animal health/hygiene
-manure handling
Service Centers         -animal health; hygiene
-water contamination
-zoonotic diseases
Feedlots                -feedlot management
-feeds and feeding
-manure disposal
-animal hygiene
-worker safety
-recording and reporting
-EMUs: environmental monitoring
Processing Plants        -plant hygiene
-HACCP/ISO-9002
-meat inspection
-beef grading
-packing and storage
-plant management
-worker safety
-EMU's: environmental monitoring
Feed Mills              -noise, air pollution
-worker safety
-plant management
-dust control
-fire protection
-EMU's: environmental monitoring
Local EPBs, PMO/EMU      -review procedures for compliance with local
environmental regulations and laws.
-Implementation of the Environmental Management Plan.



Page 92
Procurement of Civil Works, Equipmeint and Supplies. Current Bank guidelines for the procurement
of environmentally-related civil works and equipment, and the use of standard Chinese bid documents;
would apply to all Project-related procurement. All civil works, equipment and supplies associated with
pollution control would be procured by NCB for contracts under $100,000 and would be awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from at least 3 qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. NCB contracts between $400,000 and $2,000,000 would be subject to Bank's prior review. Ex-
post reviews of statements of expenditure would be carried out as part of procurement supervision. The
PPMOs have already established qualified procurement staff at county and higher level PMOs. A Bank
procurement review has been completed and cleared. Procurement would proceed in line with the time
schedule presented in Table 10.
Organizational Changes. No organizational changes are envisaged in the implementation of the
Project's environmental pollution control measures. EMUs will be attached to all local and provincial
PMOs. Review measures for permits are in place. Staff is being appointed and trained, and environmental
mitigation will be dealt with during the Launch Workshop. Reporting mechanisms are in place.
G. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE AND COST ESTIMATES
Implementation Schedule. The implementation schedule for environmental training, monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) is presented in Table 10 and follows the overall training schedule set out in the PIP
(Table 9). Part of the budgets listed under Training are also dedicated to training for purposes other than
environmental skills development, but have been isolated as much as possible. This is especially the case
for the training of households. Environmental M&E budgets have been presented as cumulative (i.e.
recurrent) budgets from PYl through PY4.
Recurrent and Capital Investment Cost Estimates. Recurrent M&E cost estimates have been extended
throughout the project's life span through PY4. Standard training costs and environmental pollution
control equipment or construction for feedlots and service centers have been standardized per unit (see
notes, Table 10). Training costs have also been standardized per person trained.
Table 10 - Environmental M&E Training Implementation Schedule by Province & Budget
Activity     Unit   Qty    PY2   PY3   PY4   Total  Value  PY2   PY3    PY4   Total
PYl               _         Qty    PY1                             Y'000
Henan        Total                                                                       4993.4
Civil works:    No.     101                          101    50.5                          50.5
Service centers No.           51                    51           204.0                   204.0
Feedlots    Umt                2                     2            394.5                  394.5
Processing    Ui
Equipment:
Service centers No.    101     2                     2    101.0  2070.0                 2171.0
Processing  Units
Training:
Households    No.    12150  12150  121 S0         36450   607.5  607.5   607.5          1822.5
Service centers Persons    505                      101    50.5                           50.5
Feedlots    Persons           102                   102           20.4                   20.4
Processing    Persons.        20                     20           20.0                    20.0
M&E          Total    Y'000                                107.0  260.0   260.0  260.0   887.0
Cum. Costs   Y/yr.                    ___l



Page 93
Hebei           Total                                                                                           3350.2
Civil works:    No.            57      39                          96       28.5    19.5                          48.0
Service center   No          28       24                          52       96.0    48.0                         144.0
Feedlots       Units           2                                   2      166.0                                 414.0
Processing     U               2
Equipment:
Service centers  No.          57      39                          96       57.0    39.0                          96.0
Processing     No.             2                                   2      267.0                                 267.0
Training:
Households     No.         18489   18489                       36978      924.5   924.5                        1849.0
Service centers  Persons     285      195                        480       19.5                                  48.0
Feedlots       Persons       118      78                          196      15.6                                  39.2
Processing     Persons        20                                  20       20.0                                  20.0
M&E             Total      Y'000                                           119.0   102.2      102.0   102.0      425.0
Cum. Costs      Y/yr.
Anhui           Total                                                                                           2881.7
Civil works:    No.            42      27       17        9         95      21.0    13.5        8.5      4.5      47.5
Service center   No.           4       12      12        2        30        6.4    52.8       46.4    20.0      125.6
Feedlots       Units           I                                    I      153                                   15.3
Processing
Equipment:
Service centers  No.          42      27       17        9        95       42.0    27.0       17.0      9.0      95.0
Processing     No.             I                                    1       4.9                                   4.9
Training:
Households     No.          8361   19154   13523    2866       43904      418.1   975.7      676.2      6.6    2076.6
Service centers  Persons     210      135      85       45       475       42.0    27.0       17.0      9.0      95.0
Feedlots       Persons        16      72       56       20        164       3.2    14.4       11.2      4.0      32.8
Processing     Persons        10                                   10      10.0                                  10.0
M&E             Total      Y'000                                            53.0    77.0      118.0   131.0      379.0
Cum. Costs      Y/yr.
Shanxi                                                                                                          4252.8
Civil works:    No.           113                                  113      56.5                                  56.5
Service center   No.                   6        6                  12      60.0    60.0                         120/0
Feedlots       Units           2                                   2       51.S |S.8
Processing     U               2                                   2       5                                     5
Equipment:
Service centers  No.         113                                  113     113.0                                 113.0
Processing     No.             2                                    2    1552.5                                1552.5
Training:
Households     No.         20000    4000    6000    2000       32000    1000.0   200.0    300.0   100.0    1600.0
Service centers  Persons     565                                 565      113.0                                 113/0
Feedlots       Persons        60      60                          120      12.0    12.0                          24.0
Processing     Persons       220                                   0 |    20.0                                   20.0
M&E             Total                                            119.0    137.0   155.0       155.0   155.0      602.0
Cum. Costs      Y/yr.                                                  l_l_l_l
Notes:
Costs are unified by activity across provinces, with the exception of civil works and equipment for processing plants and feed
mills. Markets are included under Service Centers.
Civil Works unit costs: service centers Y 500; feedlots: 100 head Y 4,000; 200 head Y 1,600; 300 head Y 7,000; 400 head
Y 9,000; 500 head Y 10,000.
Equipment: service centers Y1000; feedlots: 100 head Y 2000; 300 head Y 2000; 500 head Y 5000.
Training costs: Training cost /household Y 50/person. Households pay one-half of cost.
Average persons/service station trained: 5 persons @ Y 100 each.
Persons/feedlot trained: 100 hd -2 persons; 200 hd - 4; 300 hd - 5; 500 hd - 10. Cost/person: Y 200 each.
10 persons trained per processing plant @ Y 1,000 each. Paid by enterprises.
3 persons trained per feed mill @ Y 500 each. Paid by enterprises.
M&E costs/yr.: Service centers: Y 1,000; Feedlots; avg. Y 2,000, processing plants: Y 3,000. Cumulative budget/yr. to PY5.
H. INTEGRATION OF EMP WITH PROJECT
As indicated, the onset of environmental pollution control parallels project implementation, beginning at
construction, and will be closely monitored by PMOs and EMU's. Subloan approval would be conditional
to the completion of required completing the necessary documentation and action related to pollution
mitigation.



Page 94
Annex 14
Statement of World Bank Loans and Credits
As of 12-Jul-99
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Project I0    Year                 Borrower                     Purp)ose
IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed
Number of Closed Projects: 112
Active Projects
CN-PE-3653       1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN          CONTAINER TRANSPORT                     71.00         0.00         0.C0             71.00
CN-PE-36953      1999   PRC                               HEALTH IX                                 10.00       50.01         0.00             59.25
CN-PE-41268      1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               NAT.PWY4-HUBEI/HUNAN                     35C.00        0.00         0.00            350.00
CN-PE-41890      1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         LIAONING URB TRANSP                      150.00        0.00         0.00            150.00
CN-PE-42299      1999   GOC                               TEC COOP CREDIT IV                        10.00       35.00        0.00              44.39
CN-PE-43933      1999   PRC                               SICHUAN' URe. EFN'. I                    150.00        2.00         0.00            152.C0
CN-P_-46051      1999   PRC                               HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                       2C.00       50.0C         0.00             69.25
CN-PE-465S4      1999   PRC                               WESTERN POVERTY RED                       60.00      100.00         0.00            158.76
CN-PE-46829      1999                                     RENEWABLE PROJECT                        100.00        0.00         0.00            100.00
CN-PE-49665      1999   PRC                               ANHING VALLEY AG.DEV                      90.00       30. 00        0.0             118.64
CN-PE-50036      1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                     20C.00        0.00         0.00            198.00
CN-PE-51705      1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                FUJIAN II HWY                           21000         0.00         0.00            200.00
CN-PE-51856      1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                       27.40        5.61         0.00             32.89
CN-PE-51888      1999   PRC                               GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                      80.00       2C.00         0.00             99.67
CN-PE-56216      1999   PRC                               LOESS PLATEAU II                         100.00       50.10         0.0C            149.38
CN-PE-37352      1999   CHINA                             4TH RURAL WATER SUPP                      16.00       30.00         0.00             45.71
CN-PE-58308      1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         PENSION REFORM PJT                         0.00        5.00         0.00              4.95
CN-PE-63123      1999   PRC                               YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                      40.00       40.00         0.00             78.67
CN-PE-3P39       1998   PRC                               SUST COAST RES LEV                       100.00        0.00         0.0C              93.23
CN-PE-3566       1998                                     BASIC: HEALTH                              0.00       85.00         0.00             79.62
CN-PE-35698      1998   PRO                               HUNAli POWER DEVELOP.                    300.00        0.00         0.00            300.00
CN-CE-3591       1998   PRC                               STATE FARMS COMMERCI                     150.0C        0.00         0.00             94.93
CN-PE-3606       1998    OC                               ENERGY CONSERVATION                       63.00        0.00         0.0C             63.00
CN-PE-3614       1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         GUANG2. CITY CRT.TRP                     200.01        0.00         0.00            192.00
CN-PE-3619       1996   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                    123.00        0.00         0.00            123.00
CN-PE-36414      1998   CHINA                             GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                        72.00       20.00         0.00             88.60
CN-PE-36949      1998   PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA         NAT.NWY 3-HUBEI                          250.00        0.00         0.00            225.97
CN-PE-40185      1998   PRC                              SEANDONG ENVIRONMENT                       95.03        0.00         0.00             90.08
CN-PS-45788      1996   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                       230.00        C.00         0.00            220.50
CN-PE-46563      1998   PRC                               TARIM BASIN _I                            90.00       60.00         0.00            137.14
CN-PE-46952      1998   PRC                                FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                    100.00      100.00         0.00            190.46
CN-PE-49700      1998   PRC                                IAIL-2                                  300.00        1.00         0.C0            280.00
_N-PE-5;736      1998   GOC                               E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                     250.0C        0.00         0.00            250.00
CN-PE-56491    1998   PRC                                 HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                           0 .00      28.40         0.00               5.59
CH-PE-34081      1997   PRC                               XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                     430.00        0.00         0.00            304 .0
CN-PE-3590       1997   PRC                               QINBA MES. POVTY RED                      30.00      15C.00         0.00            140.82
CN-PE-3635       1997   PRC                               VOC. SOD. REFORM PROJ                     10.00       20.00         0.00               9.C8
CN-PE-3637       1997   PRC                               NATL RUER WATER III                        0 00       70.00         0.00              60.51
CN-PE-36405      1997   PRO                               WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                     400.00        0.00         0.00            313.20
CN-?g-3643       1997   PRO                               XINJ_IAIG HIGHWAYS II                    300.00        0.00         0.00            230.72
CN-PE-365C       1997   GOC                               TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                     400.0C        0.00         0.00            379.68
CN-PE-3654       1997   PRC                               HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                     400.00        0.00         0.00            313.08
CN-PE-36952      1997   PRC                                BASIC S.D. IV                             0.00       85.00         0.10              37.56
CN-?E-38988      1997   PRC                               HEILONGJIANG ADP                         120.00        0.00         0.00              89.02
CN-PE-44485      1997                                     SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                      400.00        0.00         0.00            361.84
CN-PE-34616      1996   PRO                               LA3BR MARKET DEV.                         10.00       20.00         0.00              22.35
CN-PE-3507       1996   GOC                               ERTAN HYDRO II                           400.00        0.00         0.00             21.59
CN-PE-3563       1996   PRC                               ANIMAL FEED                              150.00        0.00         0.00            136.59
CN-PE-3569       1996   P.R.C.                             SHANGRAI-ZHEJIANG HI                    260.00        0.00         7.75            100.25
CN-PE-3589       1996   PRC                               DISEASE PREVENTION                         0.00      100.00         0.00              67.07
CN-P?-3594       1996   PRC                               GANSU EEXI CORRIDOR                       60.00       90.00         0.00            124.68
CN-PE-3599       1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.                 YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                       125.00       25.00         0.00            137.81
CN-PE-3602       1996   PRC                               HUBRI URBAN ENV. PRO                     125.00       25.00         0.00            123.89
CN-PE-3638       1996   PRC                               SEEDS SECTOR COIMIER.                     60.00       20.00         0.00              73.10
CN-PE-3646       1996   PRC                               CHONGQING IND POL CT                     170.00        0.00        77.99              91.61
CN-PE-3648       1996   SHANGHAI MU.N GOVT                 SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                    250.00        0.00         0.00             148.15
CN-PE-3649       1996   CHINA                             SHANXI POVER-Y ALLEV                       0.00      100.00         0.00             30.96
CN-PE-3652       1996   PRC                                2ND SHAANXI PRDV HWY                    210.00        0.00         0.00            139.29
CN-PE-369_0      1996   PRC                                BASIC SD. POOR III                        0.00      100.00         0.00               6.39
CN-PE-40513      1996   PRC                                2ND HENAKN PROV HWY                     21010.0   0.01             0.0              165.73
CN-PE-3493       1995   PRC                                INLAND WATERWAYS                        210. 00       0.0C         0.00              51.72
CN-PE-3571       1995   PRC                               RAILWAYS VII                             400.00        0.00        29.00            337.89
CN-PE-3585       1995   GOC                                SHENYANG IND. REFORM                    175.00        0.00         O.00              93.69
CN-PE-3596       1995   PRC                                YANGZTE BASIN WATER                     100.00      110.00         0.00              24.26
CN-PE-3598       1995                                      LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                    110.00        0.00         0.00              64.64
CN-PE-36C0       -995   PRC                                TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                    200.00        0.00         0.00 1017.40
CN-PE-3603       1995   PRC                               ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                     275.01       75.00        2C.00             189.23
CN-PE-36041      1995   MOF                                FISCAL & TAX REF. &                      25.00       25.00         0.00              41.08



Page 95
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Progect ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed
CN-PE-3612      1995   PRC                              XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                    150.00        0.00        0.00             35.46
CN-PE-3634      1995   PRC                              MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                    0.00       90.00        0.00             14.30
CN-PE-3636      1995   PRC                              BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                    0.00      100.00        0.00              3.14
CN-PE-3639      1995   PRC                              SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                   47.50      200.00        0.00             81.40
CN-PE-3642      1995                                    ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                   400.00        0.00        0.00            12C.10
CN-PE-36947     1995   GOC                              SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                  270.00        0.00        0.00            132.50
CN-PE-37156    1995   PRC                               IODINE DEF. DISORDER                    7.00       20.00       7.00               1.75
CN-PE-3502      1994   MOH                              RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                     0.00      110.00        0.00             23.11
CN-PE-3504      1994   PRC                              HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL                  380.00        0.00        0.00             39.36
CN-PE-3540      1994   PRC                              LOESS PLATEAU                           0.00      150.00        0.00             21.43
CN-PE-3557      1994   PRC                              FOREST RESOURCE DEV                     0.00      200.00        0.00             31.38
CN-PE-3562      1994   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE               460.00        0.00        0.00               .43
CN-PE-3586      1994   PRC                              SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                  160.00        0.00        0.00             58.50
CN-PE-3593      1994   PRC                              SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                      0.00      205.00        0.00             23.97
CN-PE-3595      1994   PRC                              RED SOILS II DEVELOP                    0.00      150.00        0.00             39.81
_N-PE-3609      1994   GOC                              SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION        255.00        0.00       0.00            114.34
CN-PE-3622      1994   SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT          SHANGHAI MTP II                       150.00        0.00       0.00               7.36
CN-PE-3626      1994   GOC                              FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                   140.00        0.00        0.00             53.63
CN-PE-3641      1994   PRC                              YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                  350.00        0.00        0.00             6;.19
CN-PE-3644      1994   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                 0.00      110.00        0.00             22.84
CN-PE-3518      1993   PRC                              GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT             240.00        0.00       0.00               2.08
CN-PE-3533      1993                                    TIANJIN IND. II                       150.00        0.00       40.35             11.59
CN-PE-3559      1993   PRC                              AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                    0.00      115.00        0.00              6.87
CN-PE-3561      1993   PRC                              SICHUAN ADP                             0.00      147.00        0.00              5.41
CN-PE-3567      1993   PRC                              EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                    0.00      100.00       0.00               4.46
CN-PE-3570      1993   PRC                              RAILWAY VI                            420.00        0.00        0.00             83.23
CN-PE-3580      1993   PRC                              SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.          250.00        0.00        0.00              4.15
CN-PE-3581      1993   PRC                              HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                 120.00        0.00        0.00              8.25
CN-PE-3592      1993   PRC                              REF. INST'L.& PREINV                    0.00       50.00        0.00             16.55
CN-PE-3597      1993   PRC                              TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                  100.00      100.00        0.00             47.41
CN-PE-3616      1993   PRC                             TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                    300.00        0.00        0.00             69.67
CN-PE-3623      1993   PRC                              FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                    0.00       60.00        0.00             17.68
CN-PE-3627      1993   PRC                              GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                  325.00      165.00        0.00           314.28
CN-PE-3632      1993   ROC                              ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                    0.00       50.00        0.00             10.57
CN-PE-3534      1992   PRC                              ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                  220.00        0.00        0.00             :9.75
CN-PE-3544      1992   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO                    0.00      130.00        0.00              1.46
CN-PE-3568      1992   R.O.C.                           TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                    0.00      100.00        0.00             15.29
CN-PE-3624      1992   MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH              INFECTIOUS DISEASES                     0.00      129.60        0.00             29.13
Total                                                                                      14,926.90   4,207.61       182.09        10,630.50
Active Projects      Closed Projacts          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              8,240.60          13,305.17           21,545.77
of which has been repaid:                 77.78           2,663.84            2,741.62
Total now neld by IBRD and IDA:             18,874.59          10,319.66           29,194.25
Amount sold                     :0.00                                0.00               0.00
Of which reoaid                               0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :           10,630.50               69.26          10,699.76



Page 96
Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-July-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
--------- Held---------   -------Disbursed--------
----IFC----------
FY Approval       Company              Loan Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan Equity  Quasi Partic
1987/92/94       China Bicycles         8.50   3.39   0.00   0.00   8.50   3.39   0.00   0.00
1993             Shenzhen PCCP          3.76   .99   0.00   0.00   3.76   .99   0.00   0.00
1993             Yantai Cement         12.47   1.95   0.00   6.66  12.47   1.95   0.00   6.66
1994             China Walden Mgt       0.00   .01   0.00   0.00   0.00   .01   0.00   0.00
1994             China Walden JV        0.00   5.40   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.17   0.00   0.00
1994             Dynamic Fund           0.00  12.35   0.00   0.00   0.00  10.08   0.00   0.00
1994             Dalian Glass          19.36   2.40   0.00  36.89  19.36   2.40   0.00  36.89
1994/97          PTP Leshan            11.20   1.00   0.00  14.00  11.20   1.00   0.00  14.00
1995             Dupont Suzhou         21.81   4.15   0.00  41.60  21.81   4.15   0.00  41.60
1995             Newbridge Inv.         0.00   7.19   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.89   0.00   0.00
1995             Suzhou PVC            22.00   2.48   0.00  22.20  22.00   2.48   0.00  22.20
1996             Beijing Hormel         4.64   .50   0.00   4.95   4.64   .50   0.00   4.95
1996             Nanjing Kumho         15.03   3.81   0.00  42.73  12.66   3.81   0.00  35.98
1996             Jingyang              40.00   0.00   0.00 100.00  40.00   0.00   0.00 100.00
1996             TianjinKumho          11.17   0.00   0.00  33.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1996             Weihai Weidongri       3.97   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.97   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997             Ningbo                 0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00
1997             Orient Finance        13.33   0.00   0.00  16.67  13.33   0.00   0.00  16.67
1997             PTP Hubei             12.63   0.00   0.00  25.38  10.96   0.00   0.00  22.04
1998             Chengdu Chemical       0.00   3.20   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998             Caltex Ocean          21.00   0.00   0.00  45.00  18.77   0.00   0.00  40.23
1998             Chengxin-IBCA          0.00   .36   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998             CIG Port Holding       0.00   1.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998             Leshan Scana           6.10   1.35   0.00   0.00   3.00   1.35   0.00   0.00
1998             Pacific Ports          0.00   3.64   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.64   0.00   0.00
1998             Rabobank SHFC          2.75   0.00   0.00   2.75   2.25   0.00   0.00   2.25
1998             WIT                    5.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998             Zhen Jing              0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00
1999             Hansom                 0.00  16.10   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:                      234.72  75.77   0.00 391.83 208.68  47.81   0.00 343.47
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity  Ouasi Partic
1999             BOS                    0.00  21.74   0.00   0.00
1998             CHENICAL               7.40   0.00   0.00   8.60
1997             CHINEFARGE            12.80   0.00   0.00  20.00
1999             DUJIANGYAN            25.59   0.00   0.00  30.00
1997             NISSAN/DONGFENG   20.20   0.00   0.00  27.00
1998             ORIENT FIN A INC       3.33   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997             PTP HOLDINGS           0.00   1.50   0.00   0.00
1998             SHANGHAI KRUPP    30.00   0.00   0.00  78.44
1999             SHANXI                19.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997             SMC                   14.00   0.00   0.00  14.00
1998             XIB                   50.00  20.00   0.00   0.00
1998             ZHEN JING              4.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Pending Commitment:             186.82  43.24   0.00 178.04



Page 97
Annex 15
Country at a Glance
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Asia &     Low-    . 
China    PacifIc  Income      Development diamond'
1998
Populatiol, mid-year (millions)                  1,238.6     1,817    3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  750       990       520
GNP (Affas method, US$ bilions)                    928.9     1,802     1,844
Average annual growth, 199248
Population (%)                                       1,0       1.2       1.7
Labor force (%)                                      1.3       1.6       19  pGNP                               Gross
per                           primary
Most rcent estimat (latest year ssvllable. 19929481                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverly line)  6         -        . I
Urban population (% oftotal population)              33        35        31                       I
Life expectancy at birtt (years)                     70        69        63    i                 l
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             32        37        69
Child malnuritrion (% of children under 5)           le        20         .               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                83        77        74
Ilifteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                  17        15        32
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  120    117       108
Male                                              120       119       113          China        Low-income group
Femae                                             120       11a       t03
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONf-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                        172.3   268.2    902.0    960.9
Gross domestic investrmentGDP              28,5    36.1       38.2      38.8                   Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           4.8     13.6      23.0     19.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 29.0    36.2       42.6     43A4
Gross national savings/GDP                 29.0    36.2       41.5      41t4
Current account balance/GDP                 0.2      0.1       3.8       3.4    Domestic
Interest payments/GOP                         ..     0.4       0.6      0.7     Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                .     13.2      16.3      16.2     aI
Total debt servicelexports                    .      9.6       9.8       9.5
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..      14.9
Present value of debtexports                 ..       ..      62.7
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997      1993   1999-0
(average annual growt)
GDP                                9.8    10.3       8.8       7.8       7.0     -China            Low-incomegroup
GNP per capita                     8.5      8.8      7.4       6.5       6.2
Exports of goods mnd services     18.4    14A4    231          4.6       4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                      30-
Agricuture                                 29.4    26.8       t8.7      18.0    1
Industry                                   47.1    43.9       49.5     49.2   120 T
Manufacturing                             31.1    34.4      37.3      36.8   in
Services                                   23.4    29.3       32.1      32.8
Prvate consumption                         63.4    51.3       45.7     44.5            93   94   95   96   97   99
General govemment consumption               7.5    12.5       11.6      11.9                _GDI    -GDP
Imports of goods and services               4.2    13.5       18.5     14.3
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports l%)
(average annual growth)
Agricuture                                  6.4      4.4       3.5       3.5   40 
Industry                                   10.9    14.1       10.8       9.2    30
Manufacturing                             11.4    13.4       9.9       8.9
Services                                   12.7      8.6       8.2       7.6
Private consumption                         9.7      8.6       7.7      6.7       t
General govemment consumption               9.0      9.9       8.2       8.4
Gross domestic investment                  10.7    11.7        7.6       7.6           93   94   95   99   97   98
Imports of goods and services              19.2    12.5       12.7       1.5            -'Exports    0-lrports
Gross national product                     10.0    10.0        8.5      7.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing,
the diamond will be incomplete.



Page 98
______________________________                                                             ~~~China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflatrn
Donnestic prices
(% change)                                                                            30 -
Consumer prices                                  ..      7.3        2.8      -0.8     20+
Implicit GDP deflator                           1.6      5.1        1.2      -1.3     le
Government finance
(% of GDR, includes current grants)                                                           93   94    95   99    97    98
Current revenue                                  ..    21.5        12.0      12.8    -10 -
Current budget balance                           ..      4.2        0.6      -2.2    g          -_GDP deflator -C.CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -2.1        -1.5      -4.0
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998      E      a  imor_____(S mlio              _
(USS millions)                                                                         Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..  39,437   182,792   183,757    i20000o
Food                                           ..  41,781      11,075    10,619
Fuel                                           ,,   4,544       6.987     5,181     150,000
Manufactures                                   ..  26,206   1568,838   163,157                                      L
Total imports (cif)                               .   43,216    142,370   140,166     100 o
Capital goods                                  ..  21,110    57,930    61,915                3 1           i
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       75        95        89              92  93  94  95  96  97  98
Import prce index (1995=100)                     ..       75        92        89                   IEmports      lmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 99        104       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                         Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 8,550   39,120   207,251   207,589      14-
Imports of goods and services                 8,148   35,880    166,754   165,900
Resource balance                               402      240    40,497    41,689       12 -
Net income                                      82      -215    -11,097   -13,428         3u                           II
Net current transfers                          -70       224      5,144     4,276      0  9                9    98   97 95
Current account balance                        414       249    34,544    32.540
Financing items (net)                         -320    4,534       1,313   -26,114
Changes in net reserves                         -94   -4,783   -35,857    -6,426      4_
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..  22,500   147,000
Conversion rate (DEC, local/lUS$)               1.9.     4.5        8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..  3:,840   146,697   156,105
IBRD                                           ..   1,427      8,239     9,610
IDA                                            ..   1:330      7,830     8,693                          A: 9,610  8
G: 26,473         B: 5,693       1
Total debt service                               ..   3,1852    18,445    13,009
IBRD                                           ..    :08         858       940
IDA                                            .        12        81        97                                      E: 21,862
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..     209        228
Official creditors                             ..    626       4,315      2,282                                  /
Private creditors                              ..   5 t62       8,134      916
Foreign direct investment                      ..   2. 14    44,236    45,000
Portfolio equity                               ..        0      8,457     1,153                F. 92,521
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..   1,306       2,425     2,636     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  ..     702      2,275      2,061     B - IDA    D- Other mulEateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                           ..       97       377       434      C - IMF                       G - Short-team
Net flows                                      ..     605       1,898     1,627
Interest payments                              ..     124        562       602
Net transfers                                   .      482      1,335     1,024
Development Economics                                                                                                     912199



7- 770                   \80                        900 -                   10              -loo                         11200                   130.
-50                                                                                                                                        -_ 
i                             ~~~~~RUS-SIAN    FEDERATION*  
KAZAKHSTAN                    \                                        .                 
, . '  -  -'   wt                                      *-  -              i                  ./      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HEILONGJIANG 
-UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                        HRi
* _ -eS ' > C J ,} ~~~M                                            O N  G    O L I A .   >^\ 
_   -.   l               -i .                                                        t '                  \+ . 's ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHANGCHUN * j,.-
)    , ,KYRGYz   . X  *  r         @ ~~~~URUMQI       ..                                                                             ' @1"f
, t0 REPU BLIC     _.Jt,\                                                                                             SO >IR  0  7           SEYN        \  
,<2,6   .                        _-   ,   -  -'                  s-'-'   tA           f f  * ) /   .)      LIAONING p- DEM   /    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIAOING DEM
  SZqe )                  ~~~~XINJIANG                ,         ,',                                                                            -PEOPLE-'S
!_  . i                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~HOHHOT@  - E     PO
This mop wos p,od-cd by                             _5                    -.,                     9*                   75ri19 
th. Mop D.sign Unit of The   QIGAI&a  ICHUAiiS4                                                                                 z                                tS\SUit   REP OF,
clr,derom,i..fn-  ond                                       QIGA                 *t                                           ~-OEA  . 
omy the, inIMionhnson A        , /            ;   .. 'YNN,s                                , ,'                 TAIYUAN'    tJN             1/
th. part of Th. Wodd 8-k                                                       '                   g         :D D^lail, se        i  NDOIyG         -0ii       eiJ 
kwsitu ofy en;erd- .. t ior                                                            GANSU                             E SI ~-o, i
'fcdPne >sc      - M>. <;                                                                                         Xl AN  fJ,C,t I/l   +.,  t.ANGS~
<' \ - S?' X ,+ S ~SHAANXl <FRDWOIOr'  
| | k ~~~~~XIZANG  IHA  ,,; i 
X i   t  CHONGNGm  - i . '->  w>t .-    iS    ' X HEJIANGa       S c rJ30' 
CHIN                         V;                 k       - $    t4   sUNAN           NANCANGIC.HUA.N
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE                                       6V  a                  7G,                CHANGSHAO'JIANGXI  
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        ,.ul                                                                                       f S N @UYN2'4.    fFJA  au
' -PROJECT PROVINCES                           (       UMN g        ,          ~$ss                i          ;$        r4A
@E   PROVINCE CAPITALS                          -    jJNAN            tX      GUANGXI         .GUANGDONG  g         
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                           KO \_                vftJ,-NG O20  400   600 Kilometers
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                           z       D,;        VENM        -> ;,M C O       
O   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                      0      XXP,t  100  200  300  400 Miles i
i~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L.                     20!"'  L AO PEOPLE' 5                                                                                ;a tO    






_________ ________ ________ ________ ________   _______ ________ ________ ________ _____IBRDRD               33040
HENAN PROVINCE |12                                                                      4-                                                                  SHANXI PROVINCE |                                               113                                                          CHINA
,0 R   EEI oolG'                                SMALLHOLDER CATiLE
_3,                                                                                                                                                                                                          N'     r"vt1j                                              DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3 1000            ~~~~~40
SHANXI                                              .2'                              h-A303                  -. I                                                                 <' >030.33 '  0                                                       o       3        3
\t        44,1  O i  ,22'        0IW4IGE Z_ -   %U100333L 3, X- ItiS .  E2A^ To[C/                                     / 
r        t:NRIAG.  ..  Hl IFAt          -t                                                              Js Pl Nt 9    HzNUt             &YNAA                             j                 0     R;.O
2 ~ ~     ~       ~    ~     333 7_3                 0 3; ,       0633332 "M                         _i                                                                                    .   iF  ;32030                                                      3200 3  30030@M:R     
|-d 1 =,b;,9.1,;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                                                          ~         11 I~SH)D
<330320    AN           I                                                      .,'%2   |   331033233HEEEI
,r Y'                                                                                                                                                         *     ,  *R 11   K PLANT
-dl  0032 20                                                                                                                                                                                  21 -t                                   0 *_[7030Q,0,3 3         R
x'    >              N'"  ~~~~~~~~~~~,                              SHANDONG                         ~~,303    720M0                                                                    33            1
33   l L O h "TEr  A    ,      ~  33                                                                                            -N      .      3 3 2
1-'- ~ ~ ~ ~     ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~      ~      ~     ~    . '-'-2-' nZ3t~  M\OK10                                                      50 3230  03 103 2     100                Iusllul            >X       /<
22    031 ~~~~~~~~~~  ("33                                  -. ~~~~~~~~~ SHAANXI             J00    K        >2V N~ -E000 A001T0L0
3' -0  Al,30                                         ',3               032,                                         3             -                  "                                                             --"000    330  ,23
-  (33330   I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~    -                                                                                                                                                                DUNT0333233BO33304332E
30'                              23323              333'   12150613                              '7313 33           '                           ._ 32'        (1 312'300I                                                          ---E-PROVMCEBIJlDA
:0.J                           \04                    32LL4i''                -           t            3          30000
2331                                                                    33",3;\                                             I                       ~'3370                                                                                              HEBEIG
400
32-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      3023~3I,
3  0                  ANH'I                                          ""3'         3001           0102~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UI N
0                                                          32- -                                                                                         K~KHITAt*N  34  33
-  l I l y 0                 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.yN  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 200203    23240~~~~~~~~~                              2       0    ~     1 l                          '.    C"
3333,,J  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE'E,19






IBED 30407
ANHUI PROVINC E                                                    SHANDON.G,,   1                                                                HEBEI PROVINCE  151617~1916
DA615HAR                                   N                                CHINA                                           140    69.6(771660OWNS
HENAN                                                            CATTLE             22                           ,r"'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NEl MONGOL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G        RVNC APTL
SMALLHOLDER CATEE IINEI  ON O
HENAN                                                                                                                                                                                                             Wl~~~~~~~~Ad-HE116C6/     (j  NATIONAL CAPTL A
-                                                    ''J  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     ~ ~ ~~~~~~~PROJECT COUNT 16/AREAS  3  ... -                                 -PROVINCE ROUIO.ARIEs    ".
OAoobo..  \  *~~~~~~~ Ny9~~~t1 6~~~I"  ~ ~                   0  ~VETERINARYVSERVICE6bAT O11S                              j2
j    0'    7                           .611..16.1660 00UA66                                                                                                                                                           00,6I6
131  I  3                                                            i/ANGSt.)                                                 0                             -~~~~~f                FIN, SHIIAll 1
0  I                                                                                                             :11              -  'g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  ";:t-                 66622   ..o'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h   4  - l41 
"10   ~~~~~"''">~~~~1, H                                                                                        JIANGSU066-                                                             '~-          BIIN          ~              >010~t2~
'TF I ING~~~~~~~~~ 66.{1                                                                                            ,           3 II 'II,
0~~~~fl                     1      .,~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      6 Ar                                        5                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~-  1 
.07116                   ..n2 05hA(                                                                        --' 
-  I                              .                                                                                                                       <'661~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Iil
.3  3             1120'          <6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J1614A  T2 6NIIIANG1 BEIANJNN%
11161.        9112,1                                                                                                                                   '613DIN  CNAN '36A661  '
SHC. JY]AN ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        '9                                                   106N~" 6
q~)  26                        3          ~                         /       660</                                         VNOAVA"      31   C               71'       '  ~ I60'
-32"                                                                      FT~~~~~~~~~~~~~    /H I                                                    '.J. 261N
'61. nokO                                  5                                               611.1110                       6661306<61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
60166,  /    WOO -  3164   1.                                                  V                 ''0060220..                          '       96i.e    6         7  816l.61Th0AVA160..E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAN   INIAOII
FE DOINF,  )LANI Al,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3~o0nolo                                                                    o~6~.6    ~60100   6V6666..0o
p                                         XINCI FNr~~~~~~~I  328
sLur-H I                                                                                       1H9,36>
0613 A6   '   61'               ,T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C10  12   f  ~~~~~~~~~~~~I I                                          ,pHOAlb0l~~~~~~~HiIJAI
6/.~l '     ,,(60   64,                                 1
HLN~~~                                                                                                           I ILE, 7                                                                      601606        o
UJILAN  TvIl  SHI                                                                                n Tc"         XIAN           sTO:c-g,/,.~1-"                                                ARI
7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/
1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4b
-                                     (                         9866666660   /                                                              I                                 I                       613016>16616         /          '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.l',   Il  10,061111  :  POO 
6  20  66    82    JIANGXI  ~~~~~~~~~~~~61"'\                 -,                                                          26   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~    ~~6 *% r ANIIAG  'A9,
610661680                                                                                                       RENA  N                                                                     61016666001 86 560 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 <HI0 i,\-  ' JIL
HUBE  JEIL;HC 
ANIL N'                                              _b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLH~~~~~~~~~~,9,6, ~ ~ ~    ~~                              OEME 1899



