Report No. PID5592
Project Name                     China-Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       CNPE45264
Borrower(s)                      People's Republic of China
Sector                           Agriculture
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture
Foreign Economic Cooperation Center (FECC)
Mr. Tang Zhishao, Acting Division Chief
11 Nongzhanguan Nanli, Beijing, China 100026
Tel: 86-10-64194634
Fax.: 86-10-64194573
Environment Category             B
Date PID Initially Prepared      November 9, 1996
Date PID Updated                 December 17, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           May 4, 1999
Project Board Date               December 22, 1999
Country and Sector Background:
1.      Introduction.   China's goals for agriculture sector development include
raising farmers' incomes and standards of living by making better use of
natural resources and promoting appropriate agricultural technology.
Agriculture intensification and diversification to make use of available
land, labor and water resources have been the main strategies for
agricultural development in China during the last decade. As a result of
pursuing these strategies, crop yields and productivities have been
substantially increased. In grain production, a key area of government
concern, production increased from 400 million tons in 1987 to 512 million
tons in 1998 due primarily to increased yield.
2.      Livestock raising is part of the traditional and current household
farming system in China. Traditionally, farm families keep a few animals,
mainly pigs and chicken for sale and home consumption and cattle for use as
draft animals. With this as a foundation, the government has been promoting
livestock development as a means of increasing income and employment among
farmers. Concurrently, with the opening up of the agricultural economy
following the reforms of 1978, production-marketing chains have evolved,
involving increased functional specialization, better feed, improved breeds,
market-driven processing, and market-compatible government regulation. In
this new structure, taking the example of pig production, households continue
to provide the 95t of pigs for the market and coexist competitively with
larger commercial producers. Among pig-producing households, specialized
households raising, 10-20 pigs have been growing in importance, and now
produce 15t of pig production (80w remaining in backyard production).
Typically, there are contract relationships between specialized households



and slaughterhouses and processors. The relationship allows for substantial
technology transfers as contracts specify, and extension promotes, certain
breeds, feeds, technologies and quality controls.
3.      The Beef Industry.   China's traditional beef industry has consisted
mostly of the slaughter and processing of cattle that have outlived their
usefulness as draft animals plus a small component of grass-fed cattle
produced by state farms located in the grassland areas peripheral to China's
densely populated central regions. In1998, 43 million heads of cattle were
reported to have been slaughtered producing 5.8 million tons of beef.
4.      Small-scale commercial cattle operations in which specialized
households, or small feedlots cooperatively owned by small groups of
households, fatten and condition cattle are a very recent development. These
specialized households and feedlots, and also a few larger ones usually
established as township and village enterprises, provide important services
in the production and marketing chain by acquiring appropriate quantities of
cattle from households to supply to processors and live-cattle markets. In
so doing, they provide market outlets to farmers as well as passing down
technical and market information to them. They also provide services to
processing plants by ensuring a continuous supply of cattle. This relatively
new trend in commercial production of beef - specialization in production and
marketing involving both households and some larger operations - is driven by
the increasing demand for meat by consumers who, with increased incomes, can
now increasingly afford to replace small amounts of pork in their diet with
other meats, including beef. Consumers are also starting to demand safer and
higher-quality meat. Recent government policy changes are also inducing beef
producers to shift increasingly toward more commercialized production using
imported beef breeds and artificial insemination to genetically improve
indigenous cattle.
5.      The increased demand for quality beef cannot be fully satisfied due to
generally weak infrastructure in marketing, slaughtering and processing, and
a weak market information system linking producers, processors and commercial
buyers. There is an urgent need for a better-integrated production-marketing
system which would involve forward and backward linkages among producers,
processors and buyers. This is the challenge facing the government on how to
commercialize household beef production, enabling it to efficiently respond
to increasing market demands for higher-quality beef and the newly
competitive beef market, which will in time include increased amounts of
imported beef following China's entry into the World Trade Organization
(WTO). The government's objective is to maintain the production base in
rural areas by making it more productive in order to increase rural incomes
and reduce poverty.
6.      Demand for Beef.   China's per-capita beef consumption rose from 0.4 kg
to 2.4-3.0 kg per annum over the last two decades, an annual rate of increase
of about 10%.   Production has been growing at the rate of about 5%.   This
strong beef market, with demand outstripping supply, is expected to keep
prices and production profitability high. Production needs to be increased
in appropriate product categories to catch up with demand. Current beef
supply, however, is low quality and presents serious food safety risks.
Average per capita consumption of beef is low; relative to pork - beef
consumption is only 13% of pork consumption - but it is expected to increase
significantly due to changes in consumer income and taste, providing that the
- 2-



quality and safety of the meat are assured. The Government's strategy is to
improve beef quality through improved food safety, beef grading and meat
inspection.
Sector Issues and Government Strategies
7.      Breed and Breeding Strategy.   Local-breed cattle are low in meat quality
and productivity. Breeding programs exist in China but need to be
rationalized. Inadequate or irregular cattle breed improvement result in
sub-optimal cattle performance and poor feed conversion efficiency, which
wastes natural resources and results in non-competitive production. The
Government's strategy is to improve cattle breeds through cross breeding
local cows with genetic materials from imported exotic breeds. This breeding
strategy needs to be modified, since a blanket insemination approach adopted
to convert entire female breeding herds into crossbred are often of
questionable genetic merit and jeopardize the future use of indigenous gene
pools for rational breed improvement. Performance selection is not carried
out, thereby negating many of the advantages that crossbreeding programs
might otherwise offer. The project would assist the government's effort to
improve cattle breeds and develop sustainable, effective breeding strategies.
8.      Feed.  Competition for the country's grain resources between human and
livestock populations has increased since commercial livestock production
became more developed. As a result, the government has identified the
opportunity of increasing meat production without using appreciable grain
resources by increasing cattle production using as feed underutilized low-
value crop residues, such as straw, corn stover and agro-processing by-
products. The project would use proven technologies to enhance the
nutritional value of such residues. Because of their few alternative uses,
crop residues have potential as low-cost cattle feed, which is an alternative
to burning, the current method of disposal, which now also results in serious
seasonal air pollution. The project would introduce low-cost ammoniation of
straw/stover to the project are, a technique which has been proven in
northern China through the efforts of Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO), United Nations Development Program (UNDP), earlier World Bank financed
projects and the Ministry of Agriculture. The ammoniation technique converts
this residue into a valuable stock feed which, when used in association with
other residues such as wheat bran and oilseed cake, provides a more-than-
adequate ration for economic and profitable cattle fattening. The project
would be located in a grain producing area where there are abundant crop
residues for this technology.
9.      Technical Support Services.   Although the quantitative infrastructure
for veterinary and animal husbandry services in the proposed project areas is
substantial, the quality of these services remains very low. Most service
personnel are trained in pig and poultry husbandry, with relatively little or
no attention to cattle. Artificial insemination (AI) services are well
developed, but AI technicians have not been trained to understand the concept
of using the appropriate types of semen for optimal cross breeding. The
project would provide financial and technical support to strengthen these
services and also strengthen research and extension.
10.     Grazing Land Capacity.   Cattle produced under the project would be
stall-fed, not grass-fed so there is no pasture development or other
grassland-management component.
-3-



11.     Marketing, Transportation and Price Information.    A significant lack of
marketing and transportation infrastructure continues to have a negative
impact on commercializing the beef cattle sub-sector. Underdeveloped
marketing systems and limited farmer access to trade information limit the
ability of farmers to respond to market demand and improve quality. The
Government's strategy is to promote the integration of markets, producers and
processors into a demand-oriented marketing system and the project would
support the development of marketing and information infrastructure to
sustain this. Transportation limitations are to be addressed by other
government projects.
12.     Processing.   Excess beef processing capacity prevails as the result of
outdated equipment and processing technology and poor marketing strategies.
This has resulted in an underdeveloped and loss-making processing sector,
which is having adverse environmental impacts due to inadequate waste
treatment facilities in many outdated enterprises. An upgraded commercial
processing sector needs to be developed with better equipment and processing
standards and improved environmental control. The Government's strategy is
to commercialize the processing sector through the introduction of non-
government ownership, market orientation and improved processing quality.
13.     Rural Poverty.   Pockets of rural poverty are still widely prevalent in
the inner provinces of China. Government policy is to create additional
activities to increase household incomes. Livestock production, processing
and small rural enterprises have been promoted in the rural areas to make use
of existing natural resources, to provide rural employment and to reduce
urban migration. The project would be located in the remote counties of four
inner provinces, one-third of which have been designated as among the poorest
in China.
14.     Women and Credit.   A socio-economic survey carried out as part of the
preparation for this project indicated that over 70 percent of the labor
input for household cattle raising is provided by women. Women can
effectively carry out cattle operations, since they involve cow and calf
raising within the household compound. Credit is a serious constraint for
poor women in acquiring cows due to their lack of capital, although in some
areas women's group saving schemes do provide access to credit. In these
schemes, profits from cattle production are shared between household
expenditures and repayments into the savings pool. The All China Women's
Federation (ACWF) has been involved in a number of livestock credit schemes
for women and can potentially play an important role in improving the
economic status of women in the project area. However, the local branches do
not have adequate funds or institutional capacity for the purpose, a gap the
project would fill.
The Project
15.     Objectives. The project aims to improve smallholder cattle production
within existing crop farming areas using crop by-product surpluses. It would
improve the quality and marketability of cattle and thereby enhance farmer
incomes and reduce poverty. The project would assist the government's policy
of developing its beef cattle subsector in response to emerging market demand
for quality beef and in order to develop meat production that does not use
grain. The project would put special emphasis in assisting smallholders in
the inland provinces of Henan, Hebei, Anhui and Shanxi, which have the
necessary surplus labor and surplus by-products, but are constrained by the
- 4 -



low productivity and quality of existing cattle operations and a lack of
animal husbandry technology and processing and marketing infrastructure.
These objectives would be achieved by: (a) introducing improved breed, feed
and production technologies, (b) developing an integrated household-base
cattle production sector, (c) strengthening the commercial infrastructure to
provide linkages between production and markets through the development of
live-cattle markets, processing facilities, market information services and
quality assurance programs, and (d) upgrading animal husbandry institutions
to better provide support services to farmers. The project would promote the
effective use of existing, low-value crop residues, foster the development of
commercial cattle production and encourage the participation of women in
production.
16.     Rationale for Bank Involvement.   The proposed project is consistent with
the Bank's overall assistance strategy for China, which aims to alleviate
poverty. The project would be implemented in poor areas of China, and the
investment would directly benefit small farmers. Investment in other
activities would be to ensure that production from small farmers would be
marketable. It emphasizes support for the development of integrated
marketing and logistical systems for agricultural commodities in order to
establish linkages from production to markets. The Bank's involvement would
bring in extensive experience in developing sustainable livestock sectors,
specifically in the area of institutional reforms, market development; new
production and processing technologies, commercial enterprise management,
food safety, quality assurance and environmental standards for feedlots and
processing plants. Bank involvement during preparation has been instrumental
in attracting the interest of bilateral aid organizations and in coordinating
the actions of government agencies within China.
17.     Project Costs.   The total project is estimated to cost US$180.80
million, including the government's investment. The Bank loan would be
US$93.50 million. The project would have four components: (a) cattle breed
and feed improvement (US$2.00 million), (b) cattle production (US$132.34
million), (c) market development (US$25.45 million), and (d) institutional
strengthening (US$19.88 million). The front-end fee would be (US$0.94
million).
18.     Cattle Breed Improvement.   This sub-component aims to improve cattle
breeds by producing crossbreeds that would be suitable for commercial cattle
production under local production conditions, while also preserving the
genetic materials of indigenous breeds. The project would strengthen the
efforts of the provincial breeding centers to improve cattle breeds, which
are now predominantly limited to local breeds unsuitable for efficient,
quality beef production. The project would strengthen the two existing Henan
and Anhui Provincial Breeding Centers by upgrading and expanding beef bull
stations and provide imported breeding stock to the Anhui and Shanxi
Provincial Breeding Centers. The existing frozen-semen production technology
would be changed from frozen pellet to frozen-straw technology and would
compliment the provincial artificial insemination (AI) system, resulting in a
more efficient and improved genetic system. The project would support the
government in upgrading indigenous breeds and reviewing breeding strategies.
19.     Feed Supplementation.   The project would support the construction of a
small mill in Shanxi to produce cattle vitamin-mineral molasses blocks, a
feed supplement, which is presently not available in the project area. The
- 5 -



plant would be a 1.5t/hr plant producing 3,000 tons of mineral block lick per
year and would ensure availability of essential nutrients to the project
area.
20.     Cattle Production.   This component aims to increase household incomes by
increasing household cattle production and productivity. This would be done
by the introduction of improved breeds and improved feeds using ammoniated
straw and crop by-products. This component is divided into three sub-
components: (a) a household cow-calf-raising sub-component which would assist
137,000 households in establishing small household cattle breeding and
production units, (b) a household cattle-fattening sub-component which would
support 10,400 rural households with sufficient home-grown crop by-products
to set up small livestock fattening enterprises to increase farm income
beyond what they earn from crops, and (c) a feedlot production sub-component,
which would upgrade and/or expand 130 small feedlots, mainly of 100-head
capacity, which would be fatten cattle for sale to processors. Both the
fattening households and the feedlots would provide important market channels
for absorbing young stock sold by cow-calf-raising households and would sell
finished cattle to beef processors.
21.     Market Linkage Development.   This component aims to provide linkages
from producers to cattle markets. The project would support the construction
of nine small live cattle markets on a pilot basis. The cattle markets would
be centers for trade and market information as well as places to access
technical knowledge and veterinary services and would give farmers a
competitive alternative to direct sale to slaughterhouses and processors.
The project would also support the construction, expansion or rehabilitate of
five cattle slaughterhouses and processing plants to provide markets for
farmers and value-added to products. These processors would provide key
linkages between production and final-product markets by producing quality
beef of specified grades on delivery schedules required by these markets.
This would be achieved through integrated planning and management by
processing facilities, feedlots and farmers. Processors, which produce for
markets and other customers, would, through their purchasing and storage
activities, match supply and demand on a year-round basis. By doing so they
would send essential signals to farmers and feedlots about the type and
quantity of beef required, which would result in a production response
characterized by the production cattle of the quality demanded by consumers,
the utilization of the grading standards, and the presentation and packaging
of product to the specifications of customers. The entire process would
provide an avenue for inducing farmers to respond to markets. The
information collection system would be developed to collect market
information and feed it back to cattle markets, feedlots, processors, local
bureaus of animal husbandry and farmers. The participating slaughtering and
processing enterprises would participate in beef grading and assurance
programs and would work toward achieving the Hazard Analysis Critical Control
Point (HACCP) or ISO-9002 best-practice level.
22.     Institutional Strengthening.   This component aims to: (a) assist the
government through technical assistance in developing a reliable national
grading system; (b) strengthen the Bureau of Animal Husbandry (AHB) to
efficiently provide new and better cattle production-related support services
to farmers through (i) the expansion and upgrading of veterinary services in
396 veterinary and extension agro-technical stations, (ii) the expansion of
AI services in 599 AI stations, (iii) the development of a cattle recording
- 6 -



system, and (iv) the introduction of a quality-based differential beef
pricing system to serve as an incentive scheme for household cattle producers
to produce improved cattle; (c) provide training to participating households,
Animal Husbandry Bureau (AHB) support services personnel, breeding station
staff, project management staff, feedlot managers, and meat inspectors; (d)
support research and development in genetic improvement, feeds and forages,
feedlot performance, reproductive efficiency, and crossbreeding; and (e)
strengthen project management offices by upgrading equipment and facilities
and providing technical assistant and training.
23.     Organization and Management.   A Central Project Management Office (CPMO)
would be established under the Ministry of Agriculture's Foreign Economic
Cooperation Center (FECC) in Beijing to coordinate the work among the four
provinces and between the provinces and the Bank. The project management
structure, at all levels, would be composed of the Project Leading Group
(PLG), the Project Management Office (PMO) and the Producers and Technical
Advisory Group (PTAG). The PLGs are responsible for facilitation and liaison
with other agencies to assist project implementation. The PMOs are set up
under each PLG to carry out day-to-day project management. The PTAGs would be
attached to each PPMO and to county-level PMOs to provide guidance on technical
and commercial aspects of cattle and beef production. They would be composed
of representatives from AHB and from farmers, feedlots, wholesale markets and
slaughterhouses and would represent the interest of producers, farmers, and
processors. Cattle producer groups already exist, and farmers are encouraged
to be members.
24.     Environmental Aspects.   The proposed project is a rated Category B and
contains many features that are expected to have positive environmental
impacts. The project was rated B due to the small scale of the investments
to be made, their wide geographical spread (17 prefectures, 73 counties and
326 townships spread across four provinces) and, to the extent that project
activities have environmental impact potentials, the fact that control
measures are well known, widely available and well understood. A full
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was nevertheless undertaken as required
under Chinese regulations. It was prepared by the Environmental Impact
Assessment Center, Agriculture University of Beijing. In addition,
monitoring systems have been built in the project to reinforce compliance. A
positive environmental impact is expected, for several reasons. On the
production side, positive effects are two-fold: (a) the diversion of
otherwise surplus, valueless crop residues to productive use in cattle
feeding rather than burning, and (b) the production of cattle manure as a
valuable source of organic fertilizer for cropland improvement. On the
processing side, the principal positive effect would be the production of
safe food for wholesale and retail markets, because of the strict attention
given to food safety, beef quality and meat inspection.
25.     Project Benefits.   Project benefits are expected to come from
incremental cattle and beef production, improved cattle production
performance, better beef quality, and increased incomes and employment in the
rural economy. Incremental production of beef would be 23,200 tons of
various grades at full development. It would primarily supply demand in
domestic markets. In total the annual incremental income would be $243
million. The project has financial rate of return at 22t and an economic
rate of return of 30%-. The project would provide incremental incomes to
about 138,488 low-income farm families in 73 counties, of which 24 are
- 7 -



officially designated as poverty counties. Household farm models developed
under the project show that the average annual future net income from cattle
production (keeping crop production constant) would more than double compared
to the without-project situation in three of the project provinces.
Livestock incomes in the fourth province would increase by a still impressive
45%.  In addition, the project would also provide employment for about 3,000
people through the development of nine cattle markets, 130 feedlots and five
processing enterprises and would provide additional employment opportunities
in the rural economy through general commercial development based on
increased commercial and consumer transactions.
26.     Other benefits would come from improved technologies and institutional
development. The project would have a substantial impact on improving cattle
breeds both inside and outside the project area in four major cattle-
producing provinces, which together produce 35 percent of China's cattle.
Project beneficiaries would benefit from the transfer of cattle-breeding
skills, improved animal-husbandry practices, improved technical support
services, better AI service delivery and enhanced commercial production
facilities. By-product enhancement and ensilaging technologies would provide
alternative nutritional feed to grain and help to preserve grain for human
consumption. The institutional strengthening activities directed to the
commercialization and upgrading of processing and service facilities would
provide significant examples for replication elsewhere. The food safety and
quality assurance initiated under the project would reduce the health risk
from unhygienic handling of beef.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:            (202) 522-1500
Rapeepun Jaisaard/Brian Brandenburg
The World Bank
1818H St. N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4057 or 458-4068
Fax no.: (202) 522-1674
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 17, 1999.
- 8 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
9



