                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35962

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (TF-29720 SCL-45300)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 93.5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                 FOR A

                        SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 13, 2006




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) Yuan (Y)
                                           Y1.0 = US$ 0.12
                                       US$ 1.0 = Y8.07

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1     December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AI       Artificial Insemination
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPMO     CPMO
EASRD    Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit, East Asia & Pacific Region, World Bank
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP   Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
FECC     Foreign Economic Cooperation Center
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
HACCP    Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
LIBOR    London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
MTR      Mid-term Review
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NBF      Non-Bank Financed
NGO      Non-Government Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project development objective
PMO      Project Management Office
PPMO     Provincial Project Management Office
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RMB      Renminbi - Chinese Currency
SA       Special Account
TA       Technical Assistance
TPAG     Technical and Producer Advisory Group
WTO      World Trade Organization



                                Vice President:     Jeffrey S. Gutman, EAPVP (Acting)
                             Country Director:      David R. Dollar, EACCF
                               Sector Director:     Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
                           Task Team Leader:        Weiguo Zhou, EASRD

                                            CHINA
                            Smallholder Cattle Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          30

Project ID: P045264                                                  Project Name: Smallholder Cattle Development Project
Team Leader: Weiguo Zhou                                             TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 13, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Smallholder Cattle Development Project                   L/C/TF Number: TF-29720; SCL-45300
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Animal production (74%); Agricultural marketing and trade (15%); Sub-national government
                            administration (6%); Agricultural extension and research (5%)
                  Theme: Rural markets (P); Other rural development (P); Social risk mitigation (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/21/1997                                     Effective: 05/10/2000                06/14/2000
     Appraisal: 04/16/1999                                         MTR: 03/31/2003                  09/07/2003
      Approval: 12/22/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The People's Republic of China/The Ministry of Agriculture and the Provincial
                                           Governments of Henan; The People's Republic of China/Hebei; The People's
                                           Republic of China/Shanxi; The People's Republic of China/and Anhui
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Weiguo Zhou                                    Rapeepun Jaisaard and Abraham Brandenburg
ICR Primary Author:             Xueming Liu and Ajay
                                Markanday (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    The project aimed to improve smallholder cattle production within existing crop farming areas with
large crop by-product surpluses, and to improve the quality and marketability of cattle in order to enhance
farmer incomes and reduce poverty.        The project was designed to assist the government's policy of
developing the beef cattle sub-sector in response to the emerging market demand for quality beef. The
project placed special emphasis on assisting smallholders in the inland provinces of Henan, Hebei, Anhui
and Shanxi, which have the necessary surplus labor and natural resources but are constrained by the low
productivity and quality of cattle, a lack of animal husbandry technology, and inadequate processing and
marketing infrastructure. Specifically the project would: (a) improve cattle productivity, (b) increase the
efficiency of converting low-value crop residues into high-value beef and beef products, and (c) promote
marketing linkages.

3.1.2    The original project development objectives (PDOs) were fully consistent with the government's
goals for agriculture sector development and raising farmer incomes through the use of improved
agricultural technologies and the development of agro-industries. Specific government strategies supported
by the project in the sector included: (a) improving cattle breeds and feeding practices to reduce feed
demand on grains; (b) improving beef processing quality, food safety standards and grading systems to
increase domestic supply of quality beef; (c) increasing the market integration of and linkages between
cattle producers and beef processors; and (d) enhancing commercial involvement and reducing the
government's role in the beef processing sub-sector. The PDOs were also consistent with the major
objectives of the Bank's 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China, assisting China in the
development of integrated marketing and logistical systems for agricultural commodities, in order to
establish linkages from production to urban markets, and increased efficiency in livestock production
through improvements in feed and production technologies and generating higher-valued animal products.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The original project objectives remained unchanged throughout project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The design of the components was holistic and based on an integrated supply/value chain
approach. Lessons learned from major related projects, local know-how and extensive sector studies were
fully incorporated into the project conceptualization and design (see Section 3.5). The project had four
components: (a) Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement; (b) Cattle Production; (c) Market Development; and
(d) Institutional Strengthening. The costs of components estimated at appraisal included physical and price
contingencies.

3.3.2    Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement Component (US$2.00 million). This component aimed to
produce improved breeds that would be suitable for commercial cattle production under local production
conditions, while also preserving the genetic materials of indigenous breeds. The component aimed to
strengthen the Henan and Anhui provincial breeding centers by upgrading and expanding beef bull stations.
The project would also support the import of bulls for cross-breeding by Anhui and Shanxi to support the
government in upgrading the indigenous breeds and reviewing the breeding strategies. The project would
support the construction of a small pilot-scale mill in Shanxi to produce cattle vitamin-mineral molasses
blocks for sale within and outside Shanxi province.



                                                    - 2 -

3.3.3   Cattle Production Component (US$132.53 million). The cattle production component aimed to
increase cattle production and productivity in existing farming areas, and thereby increase household
incomes, through the introduction of improved breeds, cross-breeding programs, improved feeds, feeding of
ammoniated straw and crop by-products, veterinary services, and improved animal husbandry practices.
This component had three sub-components: (a) household cow-calf-raising to assist 128,158 households
spread across all four provinces in establishing small household cattle breeding and production units; (b)
household cattle fattening to support 10,332 rural households with sufficient home-grown crop by-products
to set up small livestock fattening enterprises and thereby increase farm incomes beyond those earned from
crops; and (c) the establishment of 130 small-scale commercial feedlots to produce quality cattle and to
provide linkages between production and markets.

3.3.4   Market Development Component (US$25.45 million). This component aimed to provide support
for the development of cattle and beef markets. The project would support two major infrastructure
investments: (a) development of a pilot program for 16 cattle markets, as centers for trade and market
information as well as places to access technical knowledge and veterinary services; and (b) establishment
of key linkages between production and markets through integrated planning and management by
processing facilities, feedlots and farmers, and assisting the upgrading and expansion of four existing
slaughterhouses and construction of a new slaughterhouse which would participate in the beef grading and
quality assurance program and work toward achieving the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point
(HACCP) or ISO-9002 best-practice level.

3.3.5   Institutional Strengthening Component (US$19.88 million). This component aimed to (a) assist
the government in developing a reliable grading system compatible with international grading practice; (b)
strengthen the Bureau of Animal Husbandry to efficiently provide new and better cattle production related
services to farmers; (c) provide training to participating households, Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Station personnel, breeding station staff, project management staff, feedlot managers and meat inspectors;
(d) support research and development; and (e) strengthen project management offices.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    Project components remained largely unchanged throughout the implementation. However, dairy
production was added as a new sub-component in November 2001 to the Cattle Production Component in
response to increased interest of the participating farmers and changing priorities of the government in
livestock sector. Total investment for the dairy production sub-component was further increased at the
Mid-term Review (MTR) (see Section 4.2).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1   There was no Quality at Entry assessment or Quality Assurance Group (QAG) analysis during the
course of the project. However, the Quality at Entry was considered satisfactory as the project was a
well-measured and considered effort made jointly by the government and the Bank to more effectively
"operationalize" the government's strategic goals related to the agriculture sector, livestock production and
integrated market development. The project was consistent with key strategic goals of the government for
enhancing the quality, standards and market integration of the beef industry in China, reducing the
country's dependency on imports of quality beef, and increasing incomes of smallholder farmer households.
These strategic drives were forward looking, given the rapid pace of economic development in the country
and significant increases in domestic market demand for quality meat products. At the same time, the
project was inclusive in targeting smallholder producers who were potentially vulnerable to rapid economic



                                                     - 3 -

change and needed livelihood safety net. In addition, the PDOs and project design were closely aligned to
key thrusts in the Bank's CAS and its particular focus on livestock and market development (see Section
3.1). Moreover, the project design was thorough in considering potential risks and incorporating relevant
lessons learned from a number of previous livestock related projects in China funded by the Bank and other
bilateral sources, in particular lessons related to market development, household loan bearing capacity and
meat grading and safety. The project was realistic in recognizing that the process and institutional changes
required a holistic (integrated supply chain) approach and sustained commitment over time. Furthermore,
the project design complied with all applicable Bank policies.

3.5.2    Notwithstanding the thoroughness of the project design, the time taken from project identification
in 1996 to the beginning of project implementation in 2000 was excessive and there were tangible risks that
design would be outpaced by rapid developments in China. In addition, the key performance indicators and
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system should have been refined and more specific in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD).


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    All project components were completed by December 31, 2005 as scheduled, with all the main
outcome targets having been met or exceeded (see Annex 1). The outcome/achievement of the objectives is
rated as satisfactory, based on: (a) the substantial achievements of the project objectives; (b) the project's
economic viability and financial profitability (see Sections 4.3 and 4.4); and (c) the likely sustainability of
the project's achievements (see Section 6). The project adequately addressed constraints in the beef
sub-sector in an integrated manner through the improvement of production, processing and marketing
development. It had a significant impact in institutionalizing an integrated cattle breeding, production,
processing and marketing supply chain, focusing on quality assurance and food safety. These positive
developments in the livestock sector complemented the strong drive toward market-oriented development in
other sectors of the Chinese economy. Producers have become significantly better informed of, and more
responsive to, price premiums associated with quality and safety standards. The project also improved
significantly efficiencies in breeding, feeding and production technologies which contributed to productivity
gains and ultimately to increases of farmer incomes. Environment-friendly practices were also effectively
introduced by the project, which are being up-scaled to regular programs in the participating provinces.

4.1.2    The project supported the use of treated crop residues, forage production and processing
technology through training, extension and support services. As a result, new technologies (such as silage
making, ammonium treated straw making, and forage cultivation) are better understood and applied by
beneficiaries. Under the project, about 95 percent of the targeted farmer households are now adopting new
feed technologies and 96 percent are applying new breeding technologies, 20 percentage points and 19
percentage points higher, respectively, than the appraisal targets. Based on project statistics, the market
share of quality project beef reached 62 percent in 2005, 7 percentage points higher than the appraisal
target of 55 percent. Market information has reached about 84 percent of targeted farmer households as
compared to the appraisal target of 80 percent.

4.1.3    The project has enhanced farmer incomes and reduced poverty levels in the project areas.
Compared to pre-project levels, the average annual net income of participating farmer households increased
by 64 percent, of which the net income generated by cattle-raising increased by 165 percent. Per capita
income of about 360,000 local populations of 83,800 poor households in the 73 project counties (including
24 officially designated as poverty counties) is now above the poverty line. As a result, the absolute


                                                     - 4 -

poverty households in the project areas have been basically eliminated.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1   The key outputs by components are described below. Outputs achieved are compared to the
physical targets set at the project appraisal and, where appropriate, to those revised during the MTR. The
revised targets at the MTR reflected changes mainly in the investment priorities of the government and the
interests of participating farmer households. Overall, project outputs exceeded both PAD and MTR targets
with a few exceptions (see Sections 4.2.3 (a), 4.2.4 (a), 4.2.5). Detailed outputs by component are
presented in Annex 1.

4.2.2   Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement Component (US$2.39 million - 120 percent of appraisal
estimate). The component provided support to two sub-components.

        (a) Breed Improvement sub-component.         In line with target outputs, the project successfully
             strengthened Provincial Beef Cattle Breeding Centers in Anhui and Henan provinces and
             developed a comprehensive medium-term cross-breeding strategy in all provinces for
             maximizing beef production. Anhui Provincial Cattle Breeding Center completed its project
             implementation and reached its appraisal target.      Currently, the Anhui Provincial Cattle
             Breeding Center annually provides 30-40 beef and dairy bulls to the local market and supplies
             0.6 million straws of frozen cattle semen (with an estimated annual production of 1.23 million
             straws at full development) required for in-province breeding and cross breeding purpose.
             Under the project, the Henan Provincial Beef Cattle Breeding Center became the largest frozen
             cattle semen producer in China, supplying an annual total of 2.42 million frozen semen straws
             nationally in addition to providing 45 genetically evaluated live bulls annually. In Henan, the
             Nanyang Yellow Cattle have been preserved as an indigenous cattle breed and have also been
             improved through cross-breeding with German Yellow cattle (Gelbvieh, a meat/milk dual
             purpose breed).    The breeding programs in Hebei and Shanxi provinces have also been
             performing well. In Hebei, fine breeds of both overseas and domestic origins have been
             recommended to farmers which contributed greatly to quality improvement of beef cattle in the
             project area. In Shanxi, 22 imported Sal and Holstein bulls were the main sires for beef and
             dairy breeding in the province, producing some 400,000 frozen semen straws per year. Under
             the project, Shanxi developed a new cattle breed, the Taihang Simmental, for which national
             certification has been applied, and preserved indigenous material from Jinnan Cattle (frozen
             embryos, semen straws, live cows and bulls in key producing areas). Under the project,
             livestock service agencies (i.e., veterinary services stations and artificial insemination (AI)
             stations at prefecture, county, township and village levels) were also established or
             rehabilitated which have provided quality genetic material, veterinary services and information
             to farmers (see Section 4.2.5).

        (b) Feed Improvement sub-component. The Shanxi Mineral Block Plant was established at a cost
             of Y5.24 million funded exclusively from the provincial budget, in keeping with the target set
             at the MTR. There was a delay in setting up the plant due mainly to an unfair competition for
             salt supply (the key raw material) for the plant with an established mineral block processing
             plant under the monopoly provincial salt company. The designed plant eventually merged its
             operation with the established mineral block processing plant. The project provided technical
             know-how to the mineral block processing plant, as required by the cooperation contract, and
             assisted in marketing the mineral blocks for improvement of nutrient supply and beef
             production performance in Shanxi province.



                                                     - 5 -

4.2.3  Cattle Production Component (US$167.63 million - 126 percent of appraisal estimate). This
component supported four sub-components with the Dairy Production sub-component added to the project
during project implementation in November 2001.

       (a) Household Cow-Calf Raising Sub-component. The project reached 101 percent of the PAD
            target for calf production through the establishment of 115,470 cow-calf household units,
            representing 90 percent of the PAD target and 97 percent of the MTR target.               The
            lower-than-targeted numbers of established cow-calf households is due mainly to the increased
            average size of household cattle holding, as the cattle-raising model was revised to include a
            larger number of cows (up to five heads), to better meet the demand of participating farmer
            households for economies of scale in terms of labor costs and facility utilization. The actual
            investment made in this sub-component was 100 percent of the PAD estimate and 106 percent
            of the MTR estimate.

       (b) Household Cattle Fattening Sub-component. The total number of fattened cattle finished
            annually by farmer households reached about 162,000 heads, 212 percent of the PAD target of
            about 76,000 heads. This is a result of the increased number of participating households and
            the increased average number of fattened cattle for each household. The total number of
            participating farmer households was 14,197 at the ICR compared to the PAD target of 10,332
            (an increase of about 37 percent) and the MTR target of 12,436 (an increase of 14 percent).
            The average number of fattened cattle per household is 11.4 heads at ICR compared to the
            PAD estimate of 7.4 heads (an increase of 54 percent). Cattle fattening by individual farmer
            households, with a total number of fattening cattle ranging widely between 5 heads and over 50
            heads, remained the major practice in the project. However, an increasing number of farmer
            households also fattened their cattle at commercial cattle feedlots where services in feeding
            technology, veterinary, environment protection and marketing were better coordinated which
            resulted in improved beef quality and increased income. The actual investment made in this
            sub-component was 148 percent of the PAD estimate and 110 percent of the MTR estimate,
            driven primarily by higher returns from cattle fattening activities.

       (c) Feedlot Production Sub-component. The total number of fattened cattle finished annually by
            feedlots reached about 61,000 heads against the PAD target of about 54,000 heads (113
            percent of the PAD target). This resulted primarily from the increased number of additional
            feedlots. The project assisted a total of 144 feedlots compared to the PAD target of 130
            feedlots (an increase of 11 percent) and the MTR target of 141 feedlots (an increase of 2
            percent). The number of cattle on each feedlot varies from 100 heads to as many as 500
            heads. The actual overall investment in this sub-component was 107 percent of the PAD
            estimate and 108 percent of the MTR estimate. Profitability of individual fattening enterprises
            varies between Y120 and Y1,000 per head depending largely on the farmer's ability in
            purchasing of the feeder stocks, feeding efficiency, marketing, and market fluctuations of
            fattened animals. At present, average net income from cattle fattening in feedlots is about
            Y100 per month, higher than that from the cow-calf production which is the major reason for
            attracting greater investment in this sub-component.

       (d) Dairy Production Sub-component. With the inclusion of dairy production in the project, a total
            of 4,056 dairy farmer households (108 percent of MTR target) were established, mostly as
            individual households each with around 5 to 6 dairy cows, and some, in the latest development,
            as co-owners of dairy parks raising 200 dairy cows or more in each park. The total number of
            cows supported by the project reached about 16,850 heads with total annual milk production



                                                    - 6 -

          of about 83,000 ton. Under the project, initial annual milk production averaged 4.9 ton/cow
          which is much higher than China's national average of 3.7 ton/cow in 2005. The project
          supported the construction of animal sheds and silage pits, provision of small tools, initial
          materials and training, and purchasing of dairy cows for the farmer households in the villages
          where milk collection and processing facilities already existed. Promotion of dairy production
          has been well accepted by smallholder farmer households for purposes of income generation
          and cattle fattening using male dairy calves. The individual household dairy production is
          generally being sustained, and in the meantime, some backyard feeding households are moving
          dairy cattle to dairy parks in response to: (i) tighter requirements of the government for
          environmental protection and disease control; and (ii) better service for quality products and
          marketing competence. For dairy production in all project areas, a recording system has been
          developed and effectively used to inform owners of milking performance of individual cows.

4.2.4 Market Development Component (US$22.83 million - 90 percent of appraisal estimate). This
component supported the following two sub-components.

      (a) Live Cattle Market Development Sub-component. The project established 10 pilot cattle
          market centers (63 percent of the PAD target but 100 percent of the MTR target). The
          adjustment made at the MTR to reduce the number of cattle market centers under the project's
          financing was due to various parallel national and provincial programs in place on
          strengthening the livestock market development system which far exceeded the physical targets
          set at project appraisal. These markets serve as demonstrations for other local small live
          animal markets and also as centers for information sharing on price, quality, feeding methods
          and disease control. Such information is proving essential and helpful for increasing capacity
          and income of farmers. As a result of the project, the proportion of farmers with awareness of
          market-related information improved to 84 percent from 39 percent before the project. As a
          result of the increasing demand for quality beef in China in recent years, cattle are sold by
          project households through various channels not limited to local public markets. Transactions
          are at market prices in almost all project areas which have been very rewarding to project
          households.

      (b) Beef Market Linkage Development Sub-component.             Beef market linkage between cattle
          feedlots and beef processors was greatly strengthened and the number of supply contracts
          increased substantially through cattle production associations. Through contracts, feedlots
          were paid a higher price for quality beef, whilst processors get a more assured supply of
          quality beef cattle for processing. Processors are also linked with consumers through contracts
          with food companies, meat processing companies and supermarkets.                 All five cattle
          slaughtering and processing plants, selected under the agreed eligibility criteria and complied
          with the Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan, were established, upgraded or
          expanded.     Grading systems based on the draft grading standards of the Ministry of
          Agriculture (MOA) were developed in all cattle processing plants financed by the project for
          both local and Hong Kong markets which provide a fairer pricing system for beef cattle. Using
          their own resources, all five cattle processing plants have been working toward achieving
          HACCP or ISO-9002 best-practice levels. By the time of project closing, all cattle processing
          plants have been either ISO 9000/14000 or HACCP certified except Anhui Yumei Meat
          Processing Plant which is still in the process of HACCP certification. These plants ensured an
          enhanced slaughtering and processing capacity and improved processing facilities in the
          respective provinces.     While not yet operating at full capacity, all participating cattle
          processing plants are under regular operations and profitable Market information systems were



                                                   - 7 -

           developed in all four project provinces according to project design.         Grading and price
           information within and outside the project provinces was readily accessible to all farmers with
           or without the project financing. Currently, this service reached 84 percent of target farmers.
           To ensure beef and dairy quality under the project, animal quarantine stations were
           strengthened to monitor cattle and dairy households, feedlots, dairy parks, cattle slaughtering
           facilities, and beef markets for animal health and product quality assurance. A cattle recording
           system through coded ear tags was also developed in all participating provinces to ensure
           traceability of cattle origin and beef/milk products for quality improvement and food safety
           assurance.

4.2.5  Institutional Strengthening Component (US$18.14 million - 91 percent of appraisal estimate).
This component provided support to two sub-components.

       (a) Technical Support Services Sub-component. (i) The project strengthened the Bureaus of
           Animal Husbandry in the participating provinces to provide improved technical support
           services to project farmers.     Specifically, one technical service center at provincial level
           (compared to the PAD target of two), 354 animal husbandry and veterinary service stations
           (PAD target of 396) and 544 AI stations at prefecture, county, township and village levels
           (PAD target of 587) were established or rehabilitated. These slightly reduced numbers of
           realized physical targets resulted from the implementation of various parallel national and
           provincial programs on strengthening the livestock technical services system during the project
           implementation which have fully covered and replaced these reduced physical targets. As a
           result of the project, government agencies are now able to provide improved technical support
           services with about 95 percent of project farmers satisfied with the services compared to 53
           percent at the baseline survey and 65 percent of PAD target. (ii) The project facilitated
           extensive training in genetics, animal feeding, animal nutrition, feed processing, silage making,
           feedlot management, dairy management, milking, disease control, breeding, project
           management and marketing for various targeted audiences. The project also financed the
           training of beef processing plant managers, workers, meat inspectors and provincial staff on
           quality assurance. A total of 194,954 person.times of domestic training, 641 person.times of
           domestic study tours, 104 person.months of overseas study tours, 32 person.months of
           overseas training have been provided which are 149 percent, 371 percent, 107 percent and 188
           percent of the respective PAD targets. Of the total number of trainees, about 54 percent were
           women compared to PAD target of 40 percent. (iii) Twelve research topics were carried out
           through counterpart funding by provincial sources in the areas agreed at project appraisal and
           for meat quality testing. The results of such researches have been used extensively to support
           livestock production and to improve management and sustainability of different production
           models under the project. (iv) Cattle recording and tracking system and beef pricing system
           were all developed (see Sections 4.2.3 and 4.2.4).

       (b) Project Management Sub-component. The project supported 384 Project Management Offices
           (PMOs) (compared to the PAD estimate of 404) at provincial, prefecture, county and township
           levels by upgrading office and training equipment, management facilities and providing
           technical assistance and training to PMO staff in various areas. This reduction of the number
           of PMOs was decided at the time of the MTR as a result of reduced project areas in Hebei
           province. All PMOs were established with competent staff and well-defined terms of reference
           and were maintained throughout the project implementation period which provided a solid base
           for overall highly effective project management.        The computer-based monitoring and
           evaluation (M&E) and financial systems were well designed and fully utilized.



                                                   - 8 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1     The major quantifiable benefits of the project are derived from the incremental value of cattle and
milk produced by: (a) individual households, cattle feedlots, and dairy parks; and (b) benefits from
processed beef, semi-prepared food by processing units, and revenues generated by cattle markets. Other
significant but not quantifiable benefits come from: (a) improved cattle breeds in the four participating
provinces which are the major cattle-producing provinces in China producing about 35 percent of the
country's total cattle; (b) improved technical support services and enhanced commercial production
facilities; and (c) institutional strengthening, commercialization, and upgrading of processing and service
facilities. The economic analysis has been carried out for each participating province and for the project as
a whole. The economic rate of return (ERR) calculation of each participating province takes into account
all incremental benefits and costs (including investment costs for project management and infrastructure
improvement) in an aggregated economic cash flow, built up in line with physical achievements in the
province. The ERRs by province range from 20.5 to 25.7 percent and the ERR for the project as a whole
is estimated at 25.2 percent (derived from the weighted average ERRs of all four participating provinces).
The ERR at ICR for the project is lower than PAD estimate of 30.0 percent due mainly to increase of labor
cost in constant prices by 20 to 30 percent but is still economically robust. The Net Present Value of the
project was re-estimated at Y959.0 million with opportunity cost of capital at 12 percent.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1    Financial analyses were conducted for all revenue-earning entities including smallholder farmer
households, cattle feedlots, dairy parks, cattle processing plants and markets. Based on the approaches and
assumptions outlined in Annex 3, the financial rates of return (FRRs) for individual farmer households (20
models for the four provinces) range between 20.0 and 35.3 percent, indicating the activities' financial
attractiveness to small holders. The FRR for dairy parks is at 30.2 percent. The FRRs (calculated based
on the net cash flow after tax) for cattle processing plants and cattle markets range from 15.5 percent to
36.9 percent, showing the project's profitability to the entities involved. The detailed calculations for FRRs
for all household models, dairy parks, cattle processing plants and cattle markets are available in the
project file. The future fiscal impact of the project on the government budget will be public expenditures
for the livestock support services in terms of staffing and facilities provision, which have been firmly
committed to by the governments at various levels (see Section 6), while commercial operations such as
cattle processing and markets have positive impact by generating tax revenues.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1    The institutional development impact is rated as substantial. The project has had substantial
institutional impact in institutionalizing an integrated cattle breeding, production, processing and marketing
supply chain. Under the project, the public agencies involved have developed a holistic "integrated supply
chain" approach to livestock sector development, integrating breeding, production, processing and
marketing. Currently, the focus on market-oriented development is becoming increasingly engrained in
public service delivery, but this was quite new and innovative in the livestock sector in China at the time of
the project preparation and early stages of implementation. Substantial training provided by the project at
various levels has greatly enhanced awareness amongst smallholder producers of the importance of grades
and standards in marketing. The technical expertise amongst agency staff in new breeding, production and
processing technologies has also been substantially improved (e.g. feeding, AI and computer-based
monitoring systems). The project emphasis on effective M&E and on fee-based cost recovery in public
service delivery has had significant implications for institutional development. These procedures are now



                                                      - 9 -

being introduced in regular public expenditure programs and are resulting in increased levels of
accountability and discipline in the use, monitoring and evaluation of public funds.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    The project successfully began integrating various processes in the beef and, subsequently, dairy
supply chains into key domestic and Hong Kong markets. However, since project inception, there have
been very significant changes in market conditions, particularly following China's entry into the World
Trade Organization (WTO), which have greatly increased price competition and volatility in the beef and,
especially, dairy industries. These have increased the vulnerability of small investors to fluctuations.
There were also discernible changes in the parity between lending rates of IBRD and the domestic banks
which reduced the comparative advantage of the Bank loan, especially in the initial stages of project
implementation. The domestic banks consistently lowered lending rates (to 6.36 percent), whilst the annual
on-lending rate of the Bank loan remained between 6 to 7 percent, plus front-end and commitment fees.
This meant that the overall cost of borrowing through the IBRD loan became relatively uncompetitive to
end-users.    There were two natural events in 2003 that had an adverse impact on the project
implementation, namely Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and extensive floods in Anhui Province.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1     Factors subject to government control were favorable and supportive of project implementation.
The concerted drive toward market-oriented livestock sector growth and development, complemented by
favorable macro-economic and sector policies, reduced market barriers and risks and enhanced market
integration and competition. Significantly, taxes on livestock raising (and generally in agriculture) were
greatly reduced or eliminated to encourage investment and productivity growth, and the legal and asset
rights of producers have been enhanced. The government has also focused on improved public sector
service delivery, especially in animal reproduction and health, and introduced new policies to encourage
fee-based cost recovery which further enhances effective delivery and sustainability. The emphasis on
election of high quality project staff, the generally uninterrupted deployment of these staff to the project
(despite significant civil service rationalization during the project life), and the adoption of transparent
project management systems and rigorous project M&E procedures are also indicative of the high level of
government commitment to project aims.            However, credit accessibility from commercial financial
institutions to small investors remains limited and the government commitment to providing sufficient
counterpart funds for the project was not fully met.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    The generally uninterrupted deployment of dedicated and competent project staff ensured that
overall project management was highly effective. The computer based planning and recording systems,
developed by the Central Project Management Office (CPMO) drawing on its extensive experiences in
managing other rural development projects in China, significantly improved management efficiency. This
contributed tremendously to project implementation. Considerable effort was also placed in developing
effective financial and physical M&E systems at different levels. Consistently in place throughout the
entire project implementation, such M&E systems coupled with routine and random field verification visits
greatly enhanced transparency and accountability in implementation, provided regular and timely progress
reports of project activities, guaranteed beneficiary involvement and participation in project management,
and ensured achievements of project development objectives.




                                                     - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    Total latest project costs are estimated at US$211.93 million, which is about 17 percent more than
the total costs estimated at project appraisal. The increased project costs were used to: (a) support the
inclusion of dairy production; (b) lead to substantial over-achievement of physical targets in cattle
production; and (c) upgrade Anhui Provincial Cattle Breeding Center (see Annex 1). The fund flow
arrangement worked well, in line with the project implementation progress. Financing by IBRD proceeds
was at US$93.45 million with an undisbursed balance of $52,000 cancelled from the project account.
Financing by domestic banks and government were both reduced in absolute value amount against the PAD
estimates. Financing by beneficiaries increased significantly by 75 percent compared to the PAD estimate.
Detailed project costs and financing are outlined in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    The sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely. The project meets key criteria for
sustainability that: (a) the project is highly attractive financially to beneficiaries and economically to
society as a whole; (b) the project promotes environmentally sound practices; and (c) the project is socially
and politically accepted widely by key stakeholders. Additionally, the governments at various levels remain
highly committed to expanding the positive achievements of the project and fully institutionalizing the
holistic market-linked approach to quality beef and dairy production in China. This emphasis on supply
chains and market linkages is fully consistent with national polices related to livestock sector development
as well as poverty reduction and overall economic development.

6.1.2    The systems of meat grading, animal disease control and food safety standards in livestock
production, processing and price determination are becoming firmly established in all participating
provinces, and both producers and consumers have become far more responsive to these systems than ever
before. In an effort further to enforce these systems, the central and local governments have committed
substantial public resources to improving township, county and provincial veterinary and AI services. The
project also successfully piloted fee-based services in project provinces to ensure cost recovery and
sustainability. The central government is gradually replicating this practice to ensure more effective and
sustainable service delivery nation wide. Dairy production, cattle-raising, cattle processing plants and
livestock markets have all been shown to be financially viable, whilst improved feed and other technologies
introduced by the project have been widely adopted. There is also growing acceptance of environmental
impact assessment practices introduced by the project, which have become mandatory for regular
government programs and projects.

6.1.3    In common with other sectors of China's economy, the governments in the four participating
provinces are committed: (a) to up-scaling the positive practices, outputs and outcomes from the project to
various follow-up projects and investments in the livestock sector related to commercial operations of
smallholders, cattle processing plants and livestock markets; and (b) to development of institutions, policies
and support services. For up-scaling purposes, two of the four participating provinces (Henan and Shanxi)
each proposed a new Bank-funded livestock production project which has been supported by the central
government and included in the pipelines for the Bank's financing.




                                                     - 11 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1   Commercial activities such as cattle production in feedlots, cattle processing and marketing, and
dairy production in dairy parks have been well into regular operation. Transition arrangement for securing
adequate working capital and tapping full market potentials has been made by individual cattle processing
plants. The operations of the "public goods" components, such as the provision of support services, have
been already integrated into the regular budget allocation (see Section 6.1.2).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1   The project identified was highly consistent with the government's and the Bank's strategies in
developing the livestock sector as a means to increasing agricultural employment, smallholder incomes and
reducing poverty (see Section 3.5). The project was sufficiently researched and prepared in terms of
evolving livestock and economic trends, component mix and technical specifications, which integrated key
processes of breeding, production, processing and marketing. The Bank's inputs in terms of staffing and
skill-mix were adequate. However, the time taken from initial identification of the project in 1996 to the
commencement of implementation in 2000 was excessive, and there were tangible risks that design would
be outpaced by rapid developments in China.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1   The supervision missions were composed of an adequate mix of international and national
professionals, with requisite technical expertise and knowledge of the livestock sector in China. Supervision
missions generally established a good working relationship with the Borrower and were proactive in
resolving emerging issues during implementation. The supervision missions also helped build institutional
capacity of PMOs at different levels and establish an effective M&E system. However, in the early stages
of project implementation there was periodic change in supervision team personnel which disrupted
continuity whilst some experts were not fully adapted to recognizing the fast pace of change in China's
livestock sector and economy as a whole, which demanded flexibility with regard to the scale and scope of
farmers' cattle production.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1   The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory given the above-mentioned lending and
supervision performance.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1   Project preparation was participatory. The Borrower provided strong and consistent support
during project preparation and actively engaged with Bank teams in arriving at the final project design.
Sufficient resources were also committed by the Borrower to the preparation efforts, which were used to
commission various sector studies to underpin the design. A national preparation team under the umbrella
of the Foreign Economic Cooperation Centre (FECC) of the MOA provided dedicated and consistent
counterpart expertise, in livestock and economic aspects. Dedicated preparation teams and funds were also
provided at provincial levels to prepare the project. Project staff assembled knowledge regarding the needs
of smallholder beef cattle producers and the constraints they faced in marketing.             In addition to



                                                    - 12 -

communities and target beneficiary groups, such as the beef cattle producers association, other government
and private organizations were actively engaged in consultations during preparation to ensure a broad
spectrum of involvement by various stakeholders. These included the All China Women's Federation, the
Environmental Protection Bureaus and associations of slaughterhouses and processors.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1   Government macro-economic and sector policies have been highly consistent and supportive in
providing the essential enabling environment and stimulus for achieving project development objectives. In
the transition to a market-based economy, the government instituted a number of favorable policies to
provide incentives to smallholders (such as tax breaks, better access to credit and property rights) and at
the same time made public service delivery more efficient and cost-effective. These included introducing
fee-based systems in the provision of veterinary and AI services to ensure cost recovery. The high level of
government commitment throughout implementation was also reflected in the selection and retention of
competent project staff despite significant civil service reforms during the early years of the project's
implementation.    To enhance accountability, government at all levels instituted transparent project
management, accounting and monitoring systems.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1   The PMOs at all levels retained a generally very dedicated and highly professional complement of
staff covering a range of expertise throughout project implementation. Under the project: (a) the CPMO
effectively coordinated project activities with Provincial PMOs, creating an efficient and integrated
management system which was instrumental in establishing strong and effective overall project
coordination; (b) the PPMOs and PMOs at lower levels engaged actively to enhance project planning,
implementation, supervision and resolve potential problems supported by Technical and Producer Advisory
Groups (TPAGs); (c) other line agencies, including finance, planning, agriculture, animal husbandry,
environmental protection and audit, provided necessary technical support at local levels; and (d) the Project
Leading Groups at local levels were established to provide project leadership, to guide on policy issues and
to ensure inter-agency coordination. Collectively, this management structure provided strong continuity
and consistency in the agencies' engagement with the Bank to resolve implementation issues, such as the
change of cattle procurement arrangements and the inclusion of dairy production. The strong commitment
of the central and provincial PMOs to instituting an effective management, monitoring and evaluation
system (see M&E reports by province in Annex 7) to ensure accountability and transparency is exemplary.
The PMOs were very open to working with technical experts of the Bank supervision missions, which
progressively strengthened their capacity in these functions.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1   Based on the above evaluation of the performance of government and implementing agencies, the
overall Borrower's performance is rated as having been highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


8.1     A number of key lessons, both positive and negative, were learned during project implementation:

8.1.1   Loan competitiveness. In a rapidly changing business and lending climate, slowness in loan
processing could make IBRD loans: (a) less competitive in a fast evolving domestic lending market,
particularly when major investment costs are local currency-based and major project outputs are destined


                                                    - 13 -

for the domestic market; and (b) less attractive to effective end-users who strive for efficiency. These
potential risks were demonstrated by the length of time (four years) it took to prepare and appraise the
project, during which both the business and lending climates in China changed considerably.

8.1.2    Flexibility. Greater flexibility in project design and implementation is essential to successful
commercial operations. Under the project: (a) the Special Accounts, intended to provide fund liquidity,
were not wholly made use of; (b) some Bank procedures such as cattle procurement arrangements for
smallholders were unworkable, which slowed implementation progress in the early stages of project
implementation as small farmers were not able to meet such procurement procedures and up-front
expenditures; and (c) the rigid prescriptions in project design of smallholder production models were not
responsive to rapidly changing market conditions and farmer demands. However, the Bank showed great
flexibility when it adopted more appropriate cattle procurement procedures and updated production models.

8.1.3    Government Commitment. The government's strong commitment to reforms and continuous
support to the integrated cattle breeding, production, processing and marketing system have been the
foundation of the project design and the primary force for project implementation. Close cooperation
between government agencies at various levels ensured an efficient and well-coordinated project
implementation.

8.1.4    Project Management. An effective project management structure, committed project staff and
strong emphasis on M&E contributed significantly to successful project preparation and implementation.
Under the project, all involved agencies at both central and local levels played their respective and positive
roles in establishing such a structure and maintaining it throughout project preparation and implementation,
including the Project Leading Groups, PMOs, TPAGs and Cattle Producer Associations, Associations of
Slaughterhouses and Processors, and All-China Women's Federation Branches. However, well-established
and fully functioning PMOs at all levels played the key role.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments on the Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the China Smallholder Cattle
Development Project

We are very pleased to receive the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the China
Smallholder Cattle Development Project (SCDP) prepared by the ICR preparation mission. We believe the
draft ICR has fully reflected the actual situation of the project, equitably and objectively evaluated the
overall project accomplishments, outputs as well as experiences and lessons learnt during the project
implementation and made precise performance ratings on relevant organs. We have no objection to the
hereinabove draft ICR.

Conforming to China's national policies on agricultural development and restructuring, implementation of
SCDP has significantly promoted the rapid development of the cattle industry in the project areas,
upgraded the industrial structure and increased the farmers' income.

Last but not least, we would like to take this opportunity to convey our gratitude to the World Bank for its
assistance and support during the whole process of project implementation, especially the quick response
and constructive suggestions made by its relevant officials. At the same time, we are looking forward to
fresh opportunities of implementing new World Bank funded projects in the future.



                                                    - 14 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

There were no cofinanciers involved in the project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

There were no other partners involved in the project.

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators

                    Indicator                  Baseline  PAD       Latest/Actual Estimate
                                                        Target  Value      % of      % of PAD
                                                                          Baseline    Target
A. Feeding Performance
   Application of new technologies              40%      75%    95%        237%       126%
   Application of AI technology                 52%      75%    96%        184%       128%
   Feedlot cattle daily gain (kg)               0.93            1.22       131%         n/a
   Cow conception rate                          62%      75%    81%        129%       107%
   AI times (no.)                               1.95            1.59       82%          n/a
   Calf weaning weight (kg)                     95.50           112.02     117%         n/a
   Household contract with feedlot              14%             58%        408%         n/a
   Annual milk production (ton/cow)                             4.91        n/a         n/a
   Market share of quality project beef         19%      55%    62%        328%       112%
   Market information dissemination             39%      80%    84%        213%       105%
   Farmer satisfactory with technical support   53%      65%    95%        177%       145%
   services
B. Household Income
Total annual household net income (Y)           6,121           10,066     164%         n/a
   From farming activities on contracted land   2,055           2,969      144%         n/a
   (Y)
    % of total net income                       34%             29%        88%          n/a
   From animal production (Y)                   2,286           4,767      209%         n/a
    % of total net income                       37%             47%        127%         n/a
        Of which, from cattle-raising (Y)       1,512           4,000      265%         n/a
        % of total net income                   25%             40%        161%         n/a
   From other activities (Y)                    1,780           2,330      131%         n/a
    % of total net income                       29%             23%        80%          n/a




                                                - 16 -

Output Indicators

                     Indicator                       PAD     MTR         Latest/Actual Estimate
                                                    Target   Target  Value     % of PAD % of MTR
                                                                                Target      Target
A. Breed and Feed Improvement
    Strengthening of Provincial Cattle Breeding       2        2       2         100%       100%
    Center (no.)
    Establishment of Mineral Block Plant (no.)        1        1       1         100%       100%
B. Cattle Production
    Cow-calf raising household (no.)                128,156 118,972  115,464     90%         97%
    Annual production of calf by household (head) 285,192            287,984     101%
    Cattle fattening household (no.)                10,332   12,436  14,197      137%       114%
    Annual production of fattened cattle by         76,469           162,254     212%
    household (head)
    Cattle fattening feedlot (no.)                   130      141     144        111%       102%
    Annual production of fattened cattle by feedlot 53,730           60,930      113%
    (head)
    Dairy cow raising - household (no.)                      3,761   4,056        n/a       108%
    Dairy cow raising - number (head)                                16,850       n/a         n/a
    Annual production of milk (ton)                                  82,755       n/a         n/a
C. Market Development
    Live cattle trade market (no.)                    16      10       10        63%        100%
    Cattle slaughtering and processing plant (no.)    5        5       5         100%       100%
D. Institutional Strengthening
    Strengthening of Provincial Technical             2        1       1         50%        100%
    Support Services Center (no.)
    Strengthening of veterinary service station      396      376     354        89%         94%
    (no.)
    Strengthening of AI station (no.)                587      572     544        93%         95%
    Domestic training (person/time)                 130,714 122,088  194,954     149%       160%
    Domestic study tours (person/time)               173      146     641        371%       439%
    International training (person/month)             17      18       32        188%       178%
    International study tours (person/month)          97      62      104        107%       168%
    Consultant services (person/time)                 67      48       87        130%       181%
    Establishment of Project management office       404      384     384        95%        100%
    (no.)




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                               Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                         Component                            US$ million  US$ million
A. Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement
    Breed Improvement                                              1.35         1.76           130
    Feed Improvement                                               0.65         0.63            97
B. Cattle Production
    Household Cattle Raising                                     93.34        92.42             99
    Household Fattening                                          21.96        33.44            152
    Feedlot Cattle Fattening                                     17.23        18.55            108
    Dairy Production /a                                                       23.22
C. Market Development
     Live Cattle Trade Market                                      1.68         1.08            65
     Beef Slaughtering and Processing                            23.77        21.75             91
D. Institutional Strengthening
     Technical Support Services                                  13.92        12.69             91
     Project Management                                            5.96         5.45            92

Total Baseline Cost                                             179.86       210.99
                           Total Project Costs                  179.86       210.99
                                          Front-end fee            0.94         0.94        100.00
                    Total Financing Required                    180.80       211.93
Note: /a Dairy production sub-component was added in November 2001.




                                                   - 18 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

    Expenditure Category                               Procurement Method                         Total Cost
                                       ICB             NCB            Other /a         NBF /b
1. Works                                 -              9.80           41.06              -        50.86
                                         -             (4.46)         (19.35)             -        (23.81)
2. Goods                              11.63             4.65           89.29                       105.57
                                      (11.63)          (2.32)         (51.73)                      (65.68)
    Equipment                          9.21             3.90            6.56              -        19.67
                                      (9.21)           (1.95)          (3.28)             -        (14.44)
    Vehicles                           2.42             0.75             -                -         3.17
                                      (2.42)           (0.37)            -                -        (2.79)
    Livestock Inputs                     -                -            11.72              -        11.72
                                         -                -            (5.85)             -        (5.85)
    Cattle                               -                -            71.01              -        71.01
                                         -                -           (42.60)             -        (42.60)
3. Services, Training                                                   3.07            0.35        3.42
                                                                       (3.07)          (0.00)      (3.07)
    Domestic Training                    -                -             2.05              -         2.05
                                         -                -            (2.05)             -        (2.05)
    Overseas Training                    -                -             0.93              -         0.93
                                         -                -            (0.93)             -        (0.93)
    Consultant Services                  -                -             0.09              -         0.09
                                         -                -            (0.09)             -        (0.09)
    Research                             -                -              -              0.35        0.35
                                         -                -              -             (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous /c                      -                -              -              7.90        7.90
                                         -                -              -             (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Recurrent Costs                       -                -              -             12.11       12.11
                                         -                -              -             (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Front-end Fee /d                      -                -             0.94              -         0.94
                                         -                -            (0.94)             -        (0.94)
             Total                    11.63            14.45           134.36          20.36       180.80
                                      (11.63)          (6.77)         (75.10)          (0.00)      (93.50)
Note:
/a Other procurement methods include force account for works, procurement for small works, shopping for small
equipment, grass seeds, initial stock for processing plants, international shopping for breeding bulls and
deep-frozen cattle embryos, Limited International Bidding (LIB) for customized equipment, training, and
consultant services.
/b NBF demotes non-Bank financing.
/c Miscellaneous include $1.34 million of land acquisition, $4.53 million of management fee, $0.35 million of
research contracts, and $2.03 million of design, freight and insurance and other handling costs.
/d Front-end fee of $0.935 million.
Figures in parenthesis represent the amounts financed by the Bank loan including contingencies.




                                                       - 19 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

    Expenditure Category                                Procurement Method                      Total Cost /e
                                        ICB             NCB            Other /a      NBF /b
1. Works                                  -             5.23             55.89          -           61.12
                                          -            (1.76)          (19.30)          -          (21.06)
2. Goods                                9.80            0.28            117.19                     127.27
                                       (9.80)          (0.15)          (60.03)                     (69.98)
    Equipment                           8.51            0.28             11.73          -           20.53
                                       (8.51)          (0.15)           (2.96)          -          (11.62)
    Vehicles                            1.29              -              0.79           -           2.08
                                       (1.29)             -             (0.02)          -           (1.30)
    Livestock Inputs                      -               -              1.87           -           1.87
                                          -               -             (0.90)          -           (0.90)
    Cattle                                -               -             102.80          -          102.80
                                          -               -            (56.15)          -          (56.15)
3. Services, Training                                                    2.59         0.17          2.76
                                                                        (1.47)        (0.00)        (1.47)
    Domestic Training                     -               -              2.22           -           2.22
                                          -               -             (1.35)          -           (1.35)
    Overseas Training                     -               -              0.34           -           0.34
                                          -               -             (0.10)          -           (0.10)
    Consultant Services                   -               -              0.03         0.01          0.04
                                          -               -             (0.02)        (0.00)        (0.02)
    Research                              -               -                -          0.16          0.16
                                          -               -                -          (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous /c                       -               -                -          7.22          7.22
                                          -               -                -          (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Recurrent Costs                        -               -                -          12.62         12.62
                                          -               -                -          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Front-end Fee /d                       -               -              0.94           -           0.94
                                          -               -             (0.94)          -           (0.94)
              Total /e                  9.80            5.52            176.61        20.01        211.93
                                       (9.80)          (1.91)          (81.74)        (0.00)       (93.45)
Note:
/a Other procurement methods include force account for works, procurement for small works, shopping for small
equipment, grass seeds, initial stock for processing plants, international shopping for breeding bulls and
deep-frozen cattle embryos, training, and consultant services.
/b NBF demotes non-Bank financing.
/c Miscellaneous include expenses incurred during project implementation e.g. management fee, bidding expenses,
land acquisition, design, freight, insurance and other handling costs, etc.
/d Front-end fee of $0.935 million.
/e Total may not tally due to rounding.
Figures in parenthesis represent the amounts financed by the Bank loan including contingencies.




                                                        - 20 -

Project Financing by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

          Component                                   Appraisal Estimate
                                   IBRD    Domestic      Government    Beneficiaries  Total
                                             Banks
A. Breed and Feed                   0.70                    1.30                       2.00
Improvement
B. Cattle Production               70.29     17.32          7.70           37.22      132.53
C. Market Development              15.80      0.44          1.49           7.72       25.45
D. Institutional Strengthening      5.77                    14.11                     19.88
    Front-end Fee                   0.94                                               0.94
Total Project Cost                 93.50     17.76          24.60          44.94      180.80

          Component                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   IBRD    Domestic      Government    Beneficiaries  Total
                                             Banks
A. Breed and Feed                   0.89                    1.50                       2.39
Improvement
B. Cattle Production               74.05     16.25          5.99           71.34      167.63
C. Market Development              14.25      0.44          1.46           6.68       22.83
D. Institutional Strengthening      3.33                    14.25          0.57       18.15
    Front-end Fee                   0.94                                               0.94
Total Project Cost  *              93.45     16.69          23.20          78.59      211.93


          Component                                 Percentage of Appraisal
                                   IBRD    Domestic      Government    Beneficiaries  Total
                                             Banks
A. Breed and Feed                   127        n/a           116            n/a        120
Improvement
B. Cattle Production                105         94           78            192         126
C. Market Development                90        101           98             86         90
D. Institutional Strengthening       58        n/a           101            n/a        91
    Front-end Fee                   100        n/a           n/a            n/a        100
Total Project Cost                  100         94           94            175         117
* Total may not tally due to rounding.




                                              - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Project Benefits

1.       The project objectives were to improve smallholder cattle production within existing crop farming
areas with large crop by-product surpluses and to improve the quality and marketability of cattle in order to
enhance farmer incomes and reduce poverty. The project assisted the government's policy of developing its
beef cattle sub-sector in response to emerging market demand for quality beef. The project supported
smallholders in the inland provinces of Henan, Hebei, Anhui and Shanxi, which had the necessary surplus
labor and natural resources, but were constrained by the low productivity and quality of cattle, a lack of
animal husbandry technology, and processing and marketing infrastructure.

2.       The major quantifiable benefits of the project are derived from the incremental value of cattle and
milk produced by: (a) project households and feed lots (including individual households, collectives and
larger commercial entities), and (b) benefits from processed beef, semi-prepared food by processing units
and revenues generated by cattle markets.

3.       Other significant but not quantifiable benefits come from: (a) improved cattle breeds in four major
cattle-producing provinces in China, which together produce about 35 percent of China's cattle; (b)
improved technical support services, better AI service delivery and enhanced commercial production
facilities; and (c) the institutional strengthening activities directed to the commercialization and upgrading
of processing and service facilities.

Project Costs

4.       Livestock production: (a) investment costs include the initial purchase of livestock; small
production tools; cattle sheds, silage pits for the ammonium treatment of straw or the ensilaging of crop
residues; training in production technology; and the purchase of urea and plastic sheet for the first
production cycle of ammoniated straw; and (b) production costs include replacement animals, feed and
forage production supplies, minerals, medicine, breeding fees, marketing fees, utilities, maintenance and
repairs.

5.       Cattle processing enterprises and cattle markets: (a) investment costs and residual value of fixed
assets: the investment costs used in the analysis were based on actual costs incurred, including procurement
and installation of equipment, land acquisition (user right fee) and training and the residual value of the
fixed assets is estimated as 5 percent of their book values and treated as a cash in flow at the end of the
project life; (b) operating costs including raw materials, labor, utilities, marketing and administrative
expenses are provided by each processing unit; and (c) incremental working capital, depending on the
capacity utilization, and management of current assets and liabilities, is projected by the factory
management and included in the analysis.

6.       Investment costs for project management and infrastructure improvements

Economic Prices and ERR Calculation

7.       At appraisal, the Bank price projections or average export prices actually realized by China were
used to estimate farm-gate economic prices in 1997 constant terms for traded inputs and outputs.
Economic prices for non-traded goods were estimated by using conversion factors. However, the Chinese



                                                      - 22 -

economy during the project implementation period, and particularly since its accession to WTO in 2003,
has been increasingly integrated into world economy and it is generally acknowledged that the Chinese
economy has achieved "market status". Therefore, the current market prices of both inputs and outputs
basically reflect the actual export and import parity prices for the products of identical varieties and quality
if they are tradable. Furthermore, the project provinces are huge in size and the inter-provincial trade is far
more important than international trade. As such, the financial prices are used as "proxies" for economic
prices. Similarly, no further adjustments are made to the prices of non-tradable farm inputs and outputs, as
Chinese currency has been under pressure for appreciation. The foreign exchange premium is therefore not
relevant in China now.

8.      Based on the above, the ERR before tax and financing, which measures the return on the total
resources engaged, has been taken as the ERR for the processing units and markets, and no further
adjustments are made to the cash flow of cattle production models as farmers enjoy tax breaks for those
operation. The economic analysis has been carried out for each province and for the project as a whole.
The ERR calculation of each province has taken into account all the incremental benefits and costs
(including investment costs for project management and infrastructure improvements) in an aggregated
economic cash flow, built up in line with physical achievements in the province. The whole project ERR in
turn is calculated on the total project net cash flow by aggregating the net cash flows of four provinces,
and is therefore the weighted average of four provincial ERRs .

9.      The ERRs for the provinces (ranging from 20.5 to 25.7 percent) are highly acceptable and the
project as a whole (at 25.2 percent) is economically robust. The re-evaluation of the ERR for each
province and the whole project is summarized below with detailed calculations contained in Working Paper
on Financial and Economic Analysis (available from the project file).

            Province                ERR (%)
              Anhui                   20.5
              Henan                   25.3
               Hebei                  25.6
              Shanxi                  25.7
        Project as a whole            25.2




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/1996                   6    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             BEEF CATTLE SPEC. (2);
                                             AGRIC ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCESSING SPEC. (1)
              12/1996                   7    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             BEEF CATTLE SPEC. (1);
                                             AGRIC ECONOMIST (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT
                                             SPEC. (1);
                                             AGRO-PROCESSING ENG. (1)
              04/1997                 12     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             BEEF CATTLE SPEC. (2);
                                             AGRIC ECONOMIST (2);
                                             SOCIAL SPEC. (1);
                                             AGRO-PROCESSING ENG. (1);
                                             MARKETING AND
                                             BEEF-QUALITY CONTROL
                                             SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); GENDER SPEC.
                                             (1); LIVESTOCK NUTRITION
                                             AND ANIMAL FEED SPEC. (1)
              07/1997                   8    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             BEEF CATTLE SPEC. (1);
                                             AGRIC ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             AGRO-PROCESSING ENG. (1);
                                             MARKETING SPEC. (1)
              11/1997                   2    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL SPEC. (1);
              03/1998                   1    MISSION LEADER (1);
              10/1998                   2    MISSION LEADER (1); AGRIC
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
              01/1999                   2    MISSION LEADER (2)




                                              - 24 -

Appraisal/Negotiation
           05/1999       6 CO-MISSION LEADER (2);
                           AGRIC ECONOMIST (1);
                           AGRO-PROCESSING ENG.
                           (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                           SPEC. (1);
                           BEEF-GRADING SPEC. (1)
           11/1999       5 TEAM LEADER (1);
                           LIVESTOCK SPEC. (1); AGRIC
                           ECONOMIST (1); LAWYER
                           (1); DISBURSEMENT
                           OFFICER (1)

Supervision

           04/23/2000    4 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                           AGRO-PROCESSING ENG. (1);
                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                           DISBURSEMENT (1)
           09/14/2000    4 SR. LIVESTOCK SPEC. (1);     S    S
                           AGRIC ECONOMIST (1); BEEF
                           CATTLE SPEC. (1);
                           AGRO-PROCESSING ENGR.
                           (1)
           05/28/2001    3 SR. LIVESTOCK SPEC. (1);     S    S
                           AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1);
                           AGROPROCESSING SPEC. (1)
           11/21/2001    3 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                           FINANCIAL SPEC. (1);
                           LIVESTOCK SPEC. (1)
           05/01/2002    2 LIVESTOCK SPEC. (1); TASK    S    S
                           TEAM LEADER (1)
           12/04/2002    3 LIVESTOCK SPEC. (1);         S    S
                           PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                           FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC. (1)
           03/22/2003    1 TASK TEAM LEADER (1)         S    S
           09/16/2003    2 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                           LIVESTOCK SPEC. (1)
           04/27/2004    2 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                           FIN. MGT. SPEC. (1)
           10/15/2004    1 TASK TEAM LEADER (1)         S    S
           04/27/2005    3 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                           AGRICULTURE ECONOMIST
                           (1); INSTITUTIONAL SPEC.
                           (1)

ICR
           12/21/2005    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                           AGRICULTURE
                           ECONOMIST (1);
                           INSTITUTIONAL SPEC.
                           (1); LIVESTOCK SPEC. (1)




                           - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                      721.82
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                           125.69
  Supervision                                   45.07                             345.45
  ICR                                            3.00                               37.84
  Total                                         48.07                           1,230.80
Note: Since the switch to SAP, no information on staff weeks for the years prior to FY00 has been available.




                                                      - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Capacity Building
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide-Mmoires since 2000
2. Economic Analysis Working Paper, February 2006
3. Detailed FRR/ERR Calculations (Spreadsheet Files), February 2006
4. Detailed Indicators by province, January 16, 2006




                                                 - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR




                                   CHINA
SMALLHOLDER CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                (Ln:4530-CHA)




       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT




                                     By
               Foreign Economic Cooperation Center
                         Ministry of Agriculture
                       People's Republic of China
                                  June 2006




                                     - 30 -

I.      PROJECT OVERVIEW


1.1     Background
In the early 1990s, with the growth of population and people's income, it was urgent for China to
improve the livestock productivity in order to meet the constantly-increasing market demand for
livestock products. It was also necessary to carry out livestock research, extend appropriate
technologies and improved livestock breeds, and improve processing techniques aiming to better
the quality of livestock products and guarantee food safety. Therefore, the Chinese government
requested the World Bank to finance a cattle development project in four central provinces of
China in order to establish a monitoring system of cattle breeding and performance, support the
livestock research, strengthen the technology extension, improve the support services, develop the
cattle production with more efficiency and lower cost, improve the marketing system and support
agro-processing plants.

1.2     Project Formulation
The project was identified in June 1996 and prepared since December 1996. The project appraisal
was made in May 1999. The project negotiation completed in November 1999 and the project
was approved by the World Bank on 12 December 1999. The Loan Agreement was signed on 17
March 2000. The project implementation started on 14 June 2000 and ended on 30 June 2005.

1.3     Project Scope
The total loan proceeds granted by the World Bank have amounted to US$ 93.50 million.
Located in 21 prefectures (municipalities), 76 counties and 389 townships in Henan, Hebei, Anhui
and Shanxi Province, the project has covered an area of 77,900 square kilometers and a total
population of 37.19 million. The project financing data were: 20 years to maturity (including 5
years of grace period), single currency and USD specified, LIBOR-based interests, 1% front-end
fee and 0.75% commitment fee.

1.4     Quality at Entry
Before the start of the project, China's cattle industry was at the crucial period of China's socialist
market economy development. There were many problems with relative policies and legislations,
livestock breeds, structure and quality of livestock products, feed, market, processing,
environment and support service system, which needed improving urgently in order to meet the
development requirements of modern livestock industry and the constantly-increasing public
demand for livestock products. The project was proposed and designed in order to meet the
urgent requirements of the status quo and development of the contemporary livestock industry,
especially the cattle industry, and it was also consistent with China's industrial policies and
economic development requirements.




                                                 - 31 -

II.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS

2.1    Project Objectives
The project aimed to improve the smallholder cattle production within existing crop farming areas
with large crop byproduct surpluses, better the cattle quality and marketability, increase the
farmers' incomes and relieve poverty.

2.2    Project Components
There were four project components: Cattle Breed and Feed Improvement, Cattle Production,
Market Development, and Institutional Strengthening. Please refer to the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) for details.

2.3    Project Adjustments

2.3.1 Adjustments during the project implementation
According to the actual project implementation, market information and requirements of the
project beneficiaries, before the mid-term review, the following adjustments were proposed in the
project investment, activities under components and procurement procedures and were approved
by the World Bank:

      In November 2001, the dairy-cow production was introduced into the project to support
smallholder dairy-cow production and the project mainly supported the construction of sheds and
silage pits, procurement of dairy cow, small tools and initial materials, and training.

      In August 2002, cattle procurement by households was permitted through the Direct
Shopping Procedure other than through the National Shopping Procedure as originally proposed.

      In September 2002, the loan at the amount of US$ 3.8 million was transferred from Hebei
and evenly distributed to Henan and Anhui.

2.3.2 Project Activities after the Mid-term Review
The mid-term review of the project was made in consideration of the project progress in
September 2003. The MTR proposal was approved by the World Bank in October 2003, mainly
including the following contents:

      Because the project households would rather use their self-possessed fund to build cattle
sheds and procure small-scale producing materials, at the same time, the local livestock
technology extension departments had provided free training to numerous farmers through
government fund, part of the loan originally-earmarked for the construction of livestock sheds,
procurement of small-scale producing materials and training was transferred for cattle
procurement by households.




                                               - 32 -

        Because some project beneficiaries had got financial support from other domestic projects,
part of the loan originally-earmarked for institutional strengthening was adjusted for the cattle
production.

        Part of remaining loan for the market linkages was also changed for cattle production.

        Investment on the sub-component of dairy production was added.

After the mid-term review, the breakdown of loan proceeds by expenditure categories was as
follows:

            Category                   Allocation of Loan Amount         Allocation of Loan Amount
                                                      at PAD             after the Mid-term Review
                                                      (USD)                       (USD)

1. Civil Works                                           23,810,000.00                  21,516,959.00

2. Goods                                                 23,080,000.00                  14,634,095.53

3. Cattle                                                42,600,000.00                  54,487,028.66

4. Consultancy and Training                                3,075,000.00                  1,926,916.81

5. Front-end Fee                                              935,000.00                   935,000.00

         Total                                           93,500,000.00                  93,500,000.00


III.     FULFILLMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS (Output data in this
report was collected/estimated by project provinces in Nov. 2005.)
After more than five years' implementation, all project components identified at the PAD have
been completed and the proposed project objectives have been achieved.

3.1      Completion of the Project Components

3.1.1 Key Policy and Institutional Reforms
        Breed and feed improvement: currently, all the project provinces have established their
own beef cattle breeding center and developed the Comprehensive medium-term Cross-breeding
Strategy. The Henan and Shanxi Province have developed their own Indigenous Cattle Breed
Improvement Program.

        Beef grading and pricing according to quality: the Ministry of Agriculture has
developed national standards for beef grading, which are being extended nationwide now. The
processing plants supported by the project have developed beef grading standards for themselves,
which has reflected the function of price leverage to price according to quality. For instance,
according to custom requirements and grading standards of high-quality beef in other countries,
the Henan Bangjie Meat Co. and Tanghe Meat Co. have set up their own beef grading systems on
their exported 10-cuts to Hong Kong with 4 grades upon beef marbling and other factors and beef



                                                            - 33 -

products at the top and second grade are attributed as high-quality beef. According to the
principle of "pricing according to quality", there is great price divergence between beef at
different grades with the largest gap up to RMB 2100 Yuan per ton. Currently, the ratio of the
good-quality beef produced by processing plants under the project has reached 61.5%.

       Food safety: during the project implementation, the state issued the Rules on
Management of Hazard-free Agricultural Products. All the project provinces have made origin
identification for their hazard-free livestock products accordingly and established over 10 national
standardized production demonstration bases and base counties. The processing plants have
constructed new factory buildings, purchased new equipment necessary for HACCP and ISO
registration, and made great efforts to conduct training on factory sanitation, technological
process, management, quality inspection etc. At present, except for Anhui Yumei Meat Co., all
the other beef processing plants supported by the project have been certificated with ISO-9000 or
HACCP standards.

       Independent Meat Inspection Service: Animal Diseases Control and Quarantine
Stations have been established at the county level, capable of providing independent meat
inspection service to locally-produced and sold meat products so as to guarantee the quality of
live and processed products.       The quarantine stations have dispatched full-time quarantine
inspectors to beef cattle slaughtering plants and conducted thorough process monitoring from live
cattle's entry into the plant, slaughtering process to products' sold-out.        The project beef
processing plants have also attached much importance to the quality inspection and control of
beef products.    They have all established independent meat inspection laboratories, installed
in-door environment monitoring facilities and provided training to relevant project staff.

       Market-driven operation on a commercial basis: the provincial beef cattle breeding
centers and veterinary/ artificial insemination stations at all levels made up their running cost
through service charges.       The cattle-producer association was responsible for organizing
households to buy and sell cattle and contract to sell beef cattle or milk with feedlots and
processing plants. Currently, about 58.28% project households have contracted to sell their
calves with feedlots in advance.

       Market information feedback service to producers and processing plants: the service
system of market information has been established under the project and it is very convenient for
the project farmers to inquiry about the price information within and out the province. Currently,
the coverage ratio of the information feedback service has reached 83.84%.

       Cattle ear-tag system and individual dairy-cow milk output records: the cattle ear-tag
system has been established under the project with the capacity of tracking cattle from household
producers through markets and feedlots to processors. The dairy-cow communities in the project
have also made daily milk output records for individual dairy-cow and feedback to dairy-cow
owners at any moment.




                                                 - 34 -

       Construction of cattle parks: both well designed and environment evaluated beef cattle
or dairy cow concentrated parks have been constructed under the sponsorship of the
county/township governments or cattle producers associations to solve the problems in aspect of
product quality and safety, environment protection and disease control so as to improve the
market competitiveness of the project produce. The animals are now confined in the parks,
subject to feeding, breeding, daily care, disease control, marketing and waste disposal in a unified
way.

3.1.2 Physical Achievements of the Project
       Cattle breed and feed improvement component: Cattle breed improvement: the Henan
Provincial Beef Cattle Breeding Center and Anhui Provincial Beef Cattle Breeding Center have
been built and the accumulated investment has amounted to RMB 14.5468 million Yuan,
accounting for 131.58% of the PAD target. Feed improvement: the Shanxi Mineral Block
Factory has been set up and the investment has accumulated to RMB 5.2371 million Yuan,
accounting for 96.42% of the PAD target.

       Cattle production component: 115,464 cow-calf production households, 14,197
fattening households, 4,056 dairy households and 144 feedlots have been developed or
established, the accumulative investment has reached RMB 1.386 billion Yuan, accounting for
126.47% of the PAD target.

       Market development component: 10 markets and 5 processing plants have been set up
and the accumulative investment has reached RMB 189 million Yuan, accounting for 90.28% of
the PAD target.

       Institutional strengthening component: 1 provincial cattle service center, and 354
veterinary service stations and 544 artificial insemination stations/sites at prefecture, county,
township and village levels have been established. The project has also set up 384 project
management offices (PMOs) at different levels. The total investment under the component has
amounted to RMB 150 million Yuan, accounting for 90.56% of the PAD target.

3.1.3 Procurement
The goods procured under the project mainly included 4 slaughtering lines, 57 vehicles, 60
computers, 219 motorcycles and tractors, 1,138 liquid nitrogen tanks, 68 bulls and embryos,
2,832 sets of laboratory equipment, 695 sets of office and training equipment, nearly 330,000
heads of cattle. The project has also procured some tools and initial raw materials.

3.1.4 Training
The project has conducted 194,954 person/times of domestic training, 641 person/times of
domestic study tour, 104 person/months of oversea study tour, 32 person/months of oversea
training, covering   cattle selection, cattle feeding, animal nutrition, feed production, silage,
fattening management, dairy management, milking, beef processing, disease prevention and
control, animal breeding, project management and marketing etc..            The project has also
completed 87 person/months of the international and national consultant service. And the total
investment of training has amounted to RMB 21.4726 million Yuan.



                                                - 35 -

3.1.5 Research
The project provinces have used counterpart fund to conduct 12 research topics, covering
pre-mixed feed production, breed improvement, feed formulation, meat quality testing etc.. The
relevant research outcomes have been widely applied to production practice, which have
produced good effects in guiding the project households to raise cattle in a scientific manner,
improve production management and establish sustainable development models of livestock
production.

3.2     Financing Status
The project has finished a total investment of RMB 1.752 billion Yuan, accounting for 117.22%
of the PAD target. Among the total project investment, US$ 93.45 million (equaling to RMB 773
million Yuan) was loan granted by the World Bank, accounting for 100% of the PAD target;
RMB 979 million Yuan was from the Chinese counterpart fund, accounting for 135.66% of the
PAD target. Among the Chinese counterpart fund, RMB 192 million Yuan was allocated by the
governments, RMB 138 million Yuan was loan from domestic banks and RMB 649 million Yuan
was managed by project beneficiaries (see Graphic 3-1).


                              Gr aphi c 3- 1: Fi nanci ng Sour ces



                                 37%                          44%


                                       11%        8%


                  WB      Domesti c Bank       Government       Benef i ci ar i es


3.3     Project Benefits
After more than 5 years' implementation, the project has promoted the development of China's
cattle (beef and dairy) industry and has produced good economic, social and ecological benefits.

3.3.1 Economic benefits
After the completion of the project tasks, the scale of both beef and dairy production and meet
processing has been expanded and income of project beneficiaries has been increasing annually.
       Aggregate output, output value and net income. Currently, about 288,000 heads of
calves have been raised by cow-calf households each year, 162,300 heads of cattle have been
fattened by fattening households and 60,900 heads of cattle fattened by feedlots annually. The
annual milk output under the project has amounted to 82,800 tons. The total output volume of
beef at different grading was 62,000 tons, which has mainly been supplied to the medium and top
grade domestic beef market. Increment of the aggregate annual revenue has reached RMB 174
million Yuan.



                                               - 36 -

       Net annual income per household: The project has helped 134,100 households of low
income in the 76 project counties to increase their income. Up to now, the annual net income of a
project household has increased from RMB 6121.44 Yuan before the project implementation to
RMB 10,066.27 Yuan after the project implementation. Among which, the annual net income
generated by cattle raising has been improved from RMB 1,511.85 Yuan to RMB 4,000.22 Yuan,
an increase of 164.59% over the amount before the project implementation. Share by cattle
raising in the annual net income has also been increased from 24.70% to the current 39.74%. (see
Graphic 3-2)


                               Gr aphi c 3 - 2:       Av e r a g e Hous e h o l d
                                            I n c o me I nc r e a s e

                    1 2 , 0 0 0
                    1 0 , 0 0 0
                      8, 0 0 0
                      6, 0 0 0
                      4, 0 0 0
                      2, 0 0 0
                             0
                                     Bef or e Pr oj e c t           Af t e r P r o j e c t

                      Tot a l  a n n u a l  n e t   i n c o me o f hous e h o l d ( Yuan)

                       Annual      n e t  i nc ome f r om Cat t l e - r a i s i ng
                      ( Yuan)


       Economic Rate of Return (ERR): The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the project is
25.17%.

3.3.2 Social Benefits
       The project implementation has promoted the industrial restructuring and transformation
of the rural surplus labors in the project areas.              And the project has created a lot of job
opportunities for farmers and accelerated the rural social development. The project has also
provided almost 660,000 rural surplus labors with opportunities of getting rich and well-off.

       Having attached special attention to creating job opportunities for women, the project has
helped to increase the women's income and upgrade their social status, which has promoted the
all-around social development. About 54% of the project trainees were women. The project
processing plants have employed about 1000 women for beef grading and products packing. The
All China Women's Federations at all levels have also participated in the selection of project
households and priority has been given to women-dominated households.

       Through the project implementation, the farmer's income has been increased and poverty
has been relieved. In the project areas, about 83,800 households have been lifted out of poverty
and the total population out of poverty has reached 360,000. Currently, the poverty-stricken
households and absolutely poor households in the project areas have been basically eliminated.




                                                      - 37 -

       The project has supported the development of animal husbandry and veterinary support
service system, which ensures more sufficient and effective support and service on both beef and
dairy cattle production available to the farmers.       Through the project implementation, the
capability of livestock technicians has been greatly improved, and the amount of frozen semen
used in the artificial insemination has decreased from 1.95 straws/per time to 1.59 straws/per time.
The improvement of service has been well received by project households, and according to
survey, the farmer's satisfaction rate on the project technical support service has exceeded 94%,
increased by nearly 77% over that before the project implementation.

       The project has extended improved livestock breeds, disseminated advanced breeding
techniques, and improved the cattle raising capacity of the households, which has improved the
production conditions of the project areas and fulfilled the sustainable development of cattle
production. At present, the ratio of the project households adopting such new technologies as
ensilage or ammonization of crop residues has amounted to 94.68%, increased by 136.92% over
that before the project implementation. The adoption of improved breeds and new technologies
has greatly bettered the cattle performance.      Currently, the average body weight of calf at
weaning has increased from 95.50 kilograms to 112.02 kilograms and the average conception rate
of breeding cows has increased from 62.39% to 80.59%. The average annual milk output of
milking cow raised by project household has reached 4.91 tons, which is much higher than the
national average (3.70 tons in 2005).

       The project has upgraded the general level and accelerated the industrialization process of
cattle production. Through supporting leading livestock enterprises and developing high-standard
livestock trading markets, the project has effectively integrated the dispersed breeding units
(feedlots and breeding/fattening households) with large market, and the big-scale-sequential
industrial chain including production, processing and marketing has come into being.

       The independent meat inspection service adopted under the project has guaranteed the
quality of the fresh and processed meat products. The large amount of beef and milk products
produced under the project have enriched the varieties of foodstuffs and satisfied the
constantly-increasing demand of the consumers. The project processing plants sell their products
to high-class restaurants and hotels in Beijing, Shenzhen, Guangzhou and other neighboring cities
and have signed sales contracts with large-scale supermarket chains and food suppliers (e.g. the
MacDonald's).

       The project implementation has played a good radiating and exemplary role for
non-project areas. Firstly, the farmers living in the vicinity of the project areas have voluntarily
lifted a climax of cattle raising. Secondly, through field visits to the project areas, the successful
experiences gained by the project have been extended nationwide. Thirdly, the project impacts
have been expanded through media dissemination.




                                                - 38 -

3.3.3 Ecological Benefits
        During the project implementation, much importance has been attached to ecological
environment improvement. From the project design to implementation, great efforts have been
made in order to protect the environment. The project management offices have brought forward
strict requirements on the occupancy of the beef and dairy cattle park, slaughtering and processing
houses, cold storages and the support and service system. The project has controlled the disposal
of the project wastes (e.g. cattle dung, wastes of slaughtering and processing plants) and basically
prevented dusts, noises and wastes from polluting the environment.

        The project has promoted effective utilization of crop residues. After the completion of
the project, about 1.30 million tons of crop residues have been treated and the pollution caused by
crop residue burning has been reduced.

        The project has made great endeavors in developing the beef and dairy cattle parks, which
has reduced the co-inhabitance of man and animal and improved the living conditions of the
project farmers. Effective measures have been taken to prevent the spread of infectious diseases
that infect both man and animal.

IV.      MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

4.1      Influential Factors beyond the Control of the Government and the Project
Management Offices

4.1.1 Market and price. With the changes of Chinese economic cycle, after China's entry into
WTO, the market competition on the live cattle, beef and milk is getting fiercer and fiercer with
each passing day, especially the violent price fluctuations of diary-cow and milk in response to the
changes of supply and demand and market anticipation have resulted in over-investment in
singular project component and decrease of the expected project benefits.

4.1.2 Changes of the interest rate. At the initial stage of the project implementation, due to
the changes of the macro-economic environment, the domestic banking proceeds had been
constantly cheaper. As the annual interest rate lowered to 6.36%, the domestic financing channels
had been increasing day by day. While the annual interest rate of the loans from the World Bank
remained between 6% to 7%, plus the front-end fee, commitment fee, and the potential exchange
rate risks, the cost of the WB loan became relatively higher, which dampened the enthusiasm of
the project beneficiaries in using the loan.

4.1.3 Natural disasters. The Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) indulged in early
2003 and an uncommonly-severe flood hitting the Anhui project area in summer 2003 had given a
heavy blow to the market, led to violent fluctuations of cattle price, hindered the project
implementation to a certain extent and reduced the project benefits.




                                                - 39 -

4.2     Influential Factors under the Control of the Government

4.2.1 Macro-economic policies. Having attached much importance to the issues concerning
agriculture, countryside and farmers, the state has not only advocated the coordinated
development of the rural society, vigorously reduced the farmers' burden and exempted the
agricultural tax, but also has organized and implemented strategic restructuring of the agricultural
industry, adopted a series of pro-agricultural policies and measures, supported the production of
high-quality agricultural products in the advantageous production zones, vigorously given
assistance to developing high-quality and efficient ecological agriculture, improved the economic
benefits and promoted the sustainable development of agricultural and livestock industry.

4.2.2 Sector policies. The relevant government departments at different levels have provided
potent help and policy support to the project implementation: the financial departments have
increased the financial input to the project, the credit departments have provided proactive credit
support, the animal husbandry departments have provided free technical service and training and
strengthened the law enforcement for the sake of protecting the legitimate rights and interests of
farmers.

4.2.3 Domestic counterpart funding. Because of the prolonged preparation period of the
project, the limited local budget at all levels and changes of the banking operational systems, there
were some difficulties in allocating the committed counterpart funds from governments and loans
from domestic commercial banks. However, the active efforts of the governments and project
management offices at all levels have ensured most of the domestic counterpart funds to be
allocated on time.

4.2.4 Inter-agency coordination. During the project implementation in some project areas,
because of the involvement of many institutions in the project management, who worked from
their own sector perspectives and failed to unify their understanding, the inter-agency cooperation
was not harmonious enough and had negative impacts on the smooth project implementation.

4.3     Influential Factors under the Control of Project Management Offices

4.3.1 Institutional reform and personnel stability. Because the project was implemented in a
crucial period of China's market economy development and the institutional reforms of
governments at all levels, great changes had taken place in government personnel at different
levels. However, at the requirements of the Central Project Management Office, the personnel of
the project management offices have basically remained stable, which has ensured the smooth
management of the project.

4.3.2 Monitoring and evaluation. According to the project requirements, all the project
management offices had made project monitoring and evaluation, and collected and analyzed
monitoring and evaluation data every half a year. The monitoring on the main project indicators
had helped to grasp the project progress, deviation and benefits, guided timely project adjustments
and pushed the project forward as scheduled. The accumulation of monitoring data had also
provided basis for the assessment of project design, analysis of project achievements and sum-up



                                                 - 40 -

of project experiences and lessons, and had played an important role in ensuring the effective
operation not only during the project implementation but also after the project completion.

4.3.3 Participation of stakeholders. All the project stakeholders had played their due roles in
the project implementation. The central and local project management offices at all levels had
fully exerted their decision-making and management functions. The project beneficiaries had also
participated in the project design and management through cattle producer association.

V.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FOLLOW-UP PROJECT OPERATION
PLAN

5.1     Project Sustainability
Through five years' development, the project has gained good economic and social benefits and
fulfilled the original objectives with good sustainability.

5.1.1 Policy guarantee. The unveiling of the national beef grading standards will greatly
promote the formulation of "Good Quality and Reasonable Price" mechanism of China's beef
products and provide policy guarantee to the sustainable development of the project.

5.1.2 Talent and technical guarantee. The project has conducted training for staff engaged in
production, processing, sales, management and technical service and has cultivated a group of
talents who are experts in technology, management and operation. They will maintain and bring
into play their advantages in the follow-up period of the project; a series of know-how on the
livestock raising and breeding developed by the project research has been widely extended to the
production practice.      The above-mentioned efforts have laid a solid talent and technical
foundation for the sustainable development of the project.

5.1.3 Economic guarantee. The economic benefits generated by the project had not only
provided capital guarantee to the loan repayment, but also enlarged the project investment and
formulated the beneficial cycle of investment-development-reinvestment-redevelopment.              For
example, the veterinary service stations and artificial insemination stations/sites are able to operate
through charging service fees and provide satisfactory service to project beneficiaries in a
sustainable manner.

5.1.4 Physical guarantee. The project has introduced improved livestock breeds, developed
and implemented indigenous cattle breed-improvement programs. At the same time, the advanced
feed production and livestock breeding approaches have been extended in the project areas. The
beef (dairy) cattle raising households, fattening households and feedlots have been developed
through the project support.      A group of processing plants and trading markets have been
reconstructed or built by the project. A complete cattle production support service system has
been established and the industry chain including livestock production, purchase, meat processing
and marketing has formulated, which has provided strong physical guarantee for further
development of livestock production and strengthened the sustainability of the project.




                                                 - 41 -

5.2     Follow-up Project Operation Plan

5.2.1 To establish a recovery and distribution mechanism for the loans due and to ensure the
high utilization efficiency of the recovered loan proceeds. For instance, specific policy has been
issued by the Anhui Provincial Department of Finance that, in light of the PAD, the recovered
loan proceeds will be circulated among the local farmers to support new smallholder cattle
development in the project area.

5.2.2 To stabilize personnel and ensure the operation of project systems.               The present
governmental project management agencies at all levels and their functions will remain unchanged
during the transitional period after the project completion.

5.2.3 To strengthen the support and guarantee the smooth operation of the support service
system. After the project has ended, governments at all levels and the departments in line will
continuously backup the support service system to operate and serve the farmers.

5.2.4 To keep on promoting reasonable scaled and specialized beef (dairy) cattle production.
The livestock management authorities at all levels will keep on helping and guiding project
households to modestly expand beef (dairy) cattle raising scale, help them cooperate with leading
industrialized livestock enterprises and to develop industrialized cattle production and operation
through the model of common development of the leading companies in conjunction with the
specialized households.

5.2.5 To protect the environment and persist in developing ecological livestock raising. The
animal husbandry authorities at all levels will persist in disseminating environmental protection
knowledge to the households, encouraging and extending such techniques as culturing
mushrooms with the cattle wastes in order to make effective use of organic fertilizers. The animal
carrying capacity and feeding population in cattle parks will be strictly controlled, the advanced
techniques on dung collection, storage, transportation and application will be utilized effectively in
order to improve the farmers' living conditions and guarantee the sustainable development of
production.

VI. PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK

6.1     Sufficient preparation for the project identification. The World Bank has conducted
abundant in-depth survey on the project and has foreseen the inevitable trend of China's further
reforms. The World Bank has also made sufficient survey on the status of China's cattle industry
and realized the importance of developing smallholder cattle production.

6.2     The project was rationally designed and thorough arrangement was made in defining the
project objectives, components, schedules and environment impacts.




                                                 - 42 -

6.3     The project evaluation was precise and scientific. The selection of project executive units,
design of project activities and models, assessment of project investment, prediction of project
benefits were made according to international practices and were analyzed and calculated through
scientific approaches, which has ensured the achievement of project objectives.

6.4     The World Bank has conducted careful and responsible project inspection. During the
project implementation, the World Bank missions had penetrated into the project executive units
to inspect and guide the project and thoroughly exchanged ideas with the project executive units,
developed many feasible project implementation approaches and technical suggestions,
accelerated the project progress and improved the project quality.

The precise work style, earnest work attitude, practical and realistic work methods of the task
managers, officials and experts from the World Bank have left all project units a very deep
impression. Chinese project units are satisfied with the World Bank's contribution to the project.

However, at the early stage of the project implementation, the World Bank's regulations on the
procurement procedures of civil works and goods, especially the cattle procurement procedure,
were not suitable to the real situation of China, which had postponed and impacted the project
progress to a certain extent and added the project cost. We hope that the World Bank can adopt
more practical and flexible measures, fully consider the project situation and national conditions of
the project country and make timely adjustments in the practice.

VII.    MAIN EXPERIENCES AND LESSONS GAINED BY THE PROJECT

7.1     Main Experiences

7.1.1 Appropriate government's guidance and sound inter-agency cooperation. Firstly,
the governments at all levels all along have considered the project as a pilot project to
demonstrate the proper approaches to increase the farmers' income, improve the sector
performance and rejuvenate the rural economy. The governments therefore have attached great
importance to the implementation of the project.           At the early stage of         the project
implementation, the governments at all levels established the project leading groups and
strengthened the project organization, coordination and guiding capacity, which had optimized the
policy environment and enabled the smooth implementation of the project. Secondly, the project
management offices have paid much attention to the internal coordination and have strived for the
support of the administrative departments responsible for the planning and financing, and the
in-line departments responsible for environment and land, which have laid a good foundation for
the smooth project implementation.

7.1.2 Stable institution and consistent management.                  At the very beginning of
implementation, the Foreign Economic Center of the Ministry of Agriculture has established the
Project Central Management Office (CPMO) with the mission to coordinate project
implementation among the four project provinces and between the project provinces and the
World Bank. The project management offices set up at the provincial, prefecture, county and
township levels have been responsible for the daily implementation and management of the



                                               - 43 -

project. Technical advisory groups at the provincial and county levels have provided support and
guidance on the technical and management aspects. The CPMO has issued such management
documents as Rules on Management of the Procurement under the Smallholder Cattle
Development Project and Manual on Financial Management and Accounting of the Smallholder
Cattle Development Project, and all the provincial project management offices (PPMO) have
developed measures for daily project implementation. Being careful and conscientious in their
daily work, with a strong sense of mission, the project staff has played an important role in
fulfilling the project objectives and helping the farmers to increase their income. The monitoring
and supervision system with regular inspection and field visits by random have been developed by
CPMO and PPMOs. For instance, Henan PPMO have made thorough inspections to all the
project counties, townships and over 80% project villages through various means such as field
visits, interviews with participating farmers, survey, sampling by random, etc.. During field visits,
selected project households were interviewed by random and the whole process of project
implementation was reviewed while all the project document was checked, including those of the
project construction, procurement, disbursement and reimbursement etc.. Aide-memoire would
be issued immediately after inspection in order to urge the rectification and improvement of the
problems, which proved to be very effective.           The proper institutional arrangement, sound
regulation systems and strict monitoring and inspection have ensured the orderly and smooth
implementation of the project.

7.1.3 High standards and scientific implementation. Firstly, the project is well designed
with high standards. During the process of project endorsement, frequent consultations through
repeated investigations, surveys and studies were conducted. The project was then planned and
designed in the principle of "Seeking truth from the facts, high starting point, high-tech and the
market first", which fundamentally ensured the project to be well advanced and proper targeted.
Secondly, the project has been developed with high quality. During the project implementation,
the project quality has been all along ranked in the first place. And definite objectives and
requirements have been made for the construction quality, implementation progress, livestock
breeding, investment control and acceptance inspection. Thirdly, the project has been managed
according to high standards. The infrastructure construction of the project has greatly improved
the production and operation conditions of the project executive units, improved their capacity of
production, marketing and management.            The project executive units have made asset
management regulations in order to conduct strict registration and management of the fixed
assets, ensure the good conditions and greater functions of assets. Fourthly, the project has been
attached much importance to training. The project management offices at all levels have attached
much attention to the project training and the project beneficiaries have also actively participated
in the training design and implementation

7.1.4 Proactive supervision, timely communication and flexible adjustment of project
operation plan.       According to the real situation of project implementation, the project
management offices have proactively supervised the project and mastered detailed market demand
information. They have timely revised the project plan after discussion with the supervision
mission of the World Bank. The project management offices have also chosen a proper time to
add the dairy production sub-component and adjusted the cattle procurement procedures, which
have expanded the scope of beneficiaries, accelerated the project process, improved the capital



                                                 - 44 -

use efficiency and avoided overlapped investment.

7.1.5 Establishment of Cattle Producers Associations. The operation of Cattle Producers
Associations has enabled the cattle producers to be well organized and has become popular
among the project beneficiaries.

7.2     Main Lessons

7.2.1 Project Design
       The time cycle from the project identification, preparation, appraisal to implementation
was too long, which had dampened the enthusiasm of some units in participating in the project
and had been the main factor leading to the slow project progress at the initial stage and
reallocation of some loan proceeds.

       The project failed to precisely predict the changes of the macro-economic environment
and development trends of China's economy. There was variation in the market prediction and a
few sub-projects failed to achieve the expected objectives.

       Due to various reasons, the Canadian technical assistance incorporated in the project
design was not provided, which had affected the project implementation to a certain extent.

7.2.2 Project Implementation
At the initial stage of the project implementation, some project executive units lacked experience
in implementing the World Bank loan project. Their understanding on the project was too rigid,
which had postponed the project implementation and increased the project cost.

VIII. CONCLUSIONS

The implementation of the China Smallholder Cattle Development Project financed by the World
Bank loan has improved the commercialization of China's livestock industry, enhanced the
strength and competitiveness of the leading livestock enterprises, improved and optimized the
operation and management of the livestock support service system, increased the farmer's income
and played an very important role in promoting the sustainable development of China's livestock
industry. The project has achieved the expected objectives and has been a success.




                                               - 45 -

- 46 -

