Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4530 CHA
Project Agreement
(Smallholder Cattle Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ANHUI PROVINCE HEBEI PROVINCE HENAN PROVINCE SHANXI PROVINCE
Dated March 17, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4530 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 2000 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ANHUI PROVINCE (Anhui), HEBEI PROVINCE (Hebei), HENAN 
PROVINCE (Henan) and SHANXI PROVINCE (Shanxi) (Anhui, Hebei, Henan and Shanxi 
hereinafter collectively referred to as the Project Provinces, and individually 
referred to as a Project Province).
WHEREAS: by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s Republic 
of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to ninety-three million five hundred thousand Dollars 
($93,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS  the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Page  2
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, economic, 
engineering, financial, livestock development and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the concerned Project Province shall otherwise agree, each 
Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each Project Province shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and said Project Province, 
a plan for the future operation of its 
Respective Part of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
said Project 
Province on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its Respective Part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by said Project Province of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the carrying out of its 
Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Each Project Province shall:
(i)
have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
Page  3
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of each Project 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each 
Project Province thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Anhui Province:
Anhui Provincial Finance Bureau 
238 Funanxi Road 
Hefei, Anhui 230061 
People’s Republic of China
For Hebei Province:
Hebei Provincial 
Finance Department 
Zhonghua Street 
Shijiazhuang 
Hebei Province 
People's Republic of China
For Henan Province:
Henan Provincial Finance Department 
No. 27 Jingsan Road
Page  4
Jinshui District
Zhengzhou City  450002
Henan Province
People’s Republic of China
For Shanxi Province:
Shanxi Provincial Finance Bureau
No. 345 Yingze Street
Taiyuan  030001
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project 
Province, may be taken or executed by the Governor or Vice Governor of said Project 
Province responsible for finance or such other person or persons as said Governor or 
Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and said Project Province shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People's Republic of China as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative 
ANHUI PROVINCE 
HEBEI PROVINCE HENAN PROVINCE 
SHANXI PROVINCE 
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
Page  5
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower).
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding.  
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $9,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Small Works.  
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,040,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
(c)
Force Account.  
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $36,020,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.
2.
Goods
(a)
Limited International Bidding.  
Equipment which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers and estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
(b)
National Competitive Bidding.  
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,650,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
International Shopping.  
Breeding bulls and deep-frozen cattle embryos, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(d)
National Shopping.  
Page  6
Goods (including livestock) other than those listed in the foregoing 
subparagraphs (a) and estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $88,690,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to the following contracts: 
(a)
contracts for goods estimated to cost $200,000 or more per contract and 
contracts for works estimated to cost $2,000,000 or more per contract, both procured 
under international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of Part B.1 of this Section; 
(b)
contracts for goods procured under limited international bidding 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2(a) of this Section; 
(c)
the first three contracts for works procured by each Project Province 
under national competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
Part C.1(a) of this Section; and
(d)
contracts for works procured under national competitive bidding 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section and estimated 
to cost $400,000 or more per contract.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Page  7
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of its Respective Part of the 
Project, each Project Province shall:
(a)
establish by September 1, 2000, and thereafter maintain, with terms of 
reference, membership and other resources acceptable to the Bank, a technical and 
producer advisory group to be responsible for provision of guidance on technical and 
commercial aspects of cattle and beef production, and
(b)
at all times continue to maintain, with terms of reference, membership 
(or staffing, as the case may be) and other resources acceptable to the Bank:
(i)
a project leading group, headed by a Vice Governor, to be 
responsible for 
overall Project coordination and provision of 
policy guidance on issues 
arising under its Respective Part of the 
Project; and
(ii)
a project management office to be responsible for the overall 
management of 
its Respective Part of the Project, including 
coordination of procurement 
where appropriate, and monitoring 
and evaluation of progress in implementing 
said Respective Part of 
the Project.  
Project Implementation at Local Levels
2.
Each Project Province shall ensure that local governments at all levels within 
its jurisdiction shall take, or cause to be taken, all actions, including provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
Page  8
each Project Province to fully implement its Respective Part of the Project.
Part A of the Project – Cross-breeding Plans
3.
(a)
Under Part A(1)(c) of the Project, Henan and Shanxi shall each prepare, 
under guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 
December 31, 2001, for its review, a program designed to ensure continued upgrading of 
its indigenous cattle breeds and enhance commercial cattle production, together with a 
time-bound action plan for the implementation of such program.
(b)
Under Part A(1)(d) of the Project, each Project Province shall prepare, 
under guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 
December 31, 2001, for its review, a program designed to maximize cattle performance 
through a comprehensive medium-term cross-breeding strategy, together with a 
time-bound action plan for the implementation of such program.
(c)
Each of the Project Provinces shall afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to review the program and action plan prepared by said Project Province 
pursuant to either paragraph 3(a) or paragraph 3(b) or both paragraphs (as the case 
maybe) of this Schedule; and thereafter, implement said program in accordance with 
said plan, taking into account the Bank’s views on the matter.
Part D of the Project – Forage Enhancement Technologies 
4.
In order to ensure sustainable production of livestock under the Project, each 
Project Province shall implement a program of supporting services, acceptable to the 
Bank, designed to provide the technology and skills necessary to convert crop residues 
into improved quality feed for its livestock, and with respect to Sub-projects under 
Part B(1) or B(2) of the Project, the Project Province concerned shall implement said 
program prior to the procurement of livestock by any household Beneficiary under its 
Sub-project. 
Part D of the Project – Fee for Services
5.
Each Project Province declares its commitment to the policy of ensuring full 
cost recovery of all services provided by its animal husbandry and veterinary stations 
and artificial insemination stations and facilities under Part D(1)(a) of the Project.  
To that end, said Project Province shall prepare, through its Animal Husbandry Bureau 
and in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank a schedule of fees for such 
services designed to recover the operating cost of said stations’ and facilities’ 
breeding and livestock support services, together with a time-bound action plan for 
the introduction of such fees, and furnish the same to the Bank not later than 
December 1, 2000, for its review.  Thereafter, said Project Province shall: (i) 
establish and collect such service fees in accordance with such action plan, taking 
into account the views of the Bank in the matter; and (ii) review said fees in 
consultation with the Bank at regular intervals not exceeding one year each, and based 
on such review, adjust them as necessary in order to continue to give effect to the 
policy referred to above in this paragraph.
Part D of the Project – Training and Research and Development
6.
(a)
The Project Provinces shall carry out all training and research and 
development under Part D of the Project in accordance with a program acceptable to the 
Bank. To that end, each Project Province shall:  (i) not later than December 1 in each 
calendar year, furnish to the Bank an annual action plan for the implementation of the 
training and research and development program under its Respective Part of the Project 
during the next following calendar year, prepared in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) thereafter promptly implement such training 
and research and development program during said following year as shall have been 
approved by the Bank.
(b)
Further to the foregoing, each Project Province shall carry out a 
training program acceptable to the Bank designed to ensure that at least 40% of those 
farmers who receive training each year under Part D(2) of the Project are women.
Resettlement 
Page  9
7.
Each Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with 
the objective of avoiding, where feasible, any change in land or water use that would 
result in the involuntary loss by persons of shelter, of productive assets or access 
to productive assets, or of income or means of livelihood.  To that end, said Project 
Province shall give due attention to said objective in the review of investment 
projects within its jurisdiction proposed for inclusion in the Project as 
Sub-projects.  If, during its review of any such Sub-project, said Project Province 
determines that such change in land or water use would nevertheless be unavoidable, it 
shall take the following actions, and confirm to the Bank that such actions have been 
taken, prior to the commencement of said Sub-project: 
(a)
said Project Province shall prepare a resettlement action plan, on the 
basis of policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria 
acceptable to the Bank, so as to improve the living standards and production levels of 
such persons, and furnish such action plan to the Bank for approval; and
(b)
said Project Province shall ensure that such resettlement action plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank shall be carried out prior to the commencement of 
such works.
Sub-projects
8.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
appraise and monitor Sub-projects in accordance with policies and 
procedures acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
make Sub-loans in accordance with procedures and on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include those set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule; and 
(c)
(i) open, not later than the date on which it shall receive the first 
repayment under any Sub-loan made by it, and thereafter maintain, a separate account 
on its books in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank; (ii) credit all 
amounts paid under the Sub-loans made by it under Part B(1) or B(2) of the Project to 
such account promptly upon receipt thereof; and (iii) utilize all such amounts not 
then required by it to pay amounts to the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of the 
Loan Agreement exclusively for the purpose of making additional loans under said Parts 
of the Project in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
Reporting and Monitoring
9.
Each Project Province shall carry out the following reporting and monitoring 
activities in respect of its Respective Part of the Project :
(a)
Said Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
Said Project Province shall prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, the following reports:
(i)
semi-annual reports, not later than September 1 and March 1 in 
each year: (A) 
integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities, performed 
pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the physical and financial 
progress achieved in the 
carrying out of its Respective Part of Project during 
the preceding 
calendar semester; and (B) setting out the measures recommended 
to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the then current calendar 
semester; and 
(ii)
a mid-term report, not later than December 31, 2002, summarizing 
the 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it 
pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph on the 
physical and financial progress 
achieved in the carrying out of 
Page  10
its Respective Part of the Project to date, 
and setting forth the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion 
out of its 
Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following the date of such report.
(c)
After furnishing:
(i)
each report referred to in subparagraph (b)(i) of this paragraph, 
said Project 
Province shall review said report with the Bank, and 
promptly take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of its Respective Part of 
the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter; and
(ii)
the report referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii) of this paragraph, 
said Project 
Province shall review said report with the Bank, by March 
31, 2003, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, and, 
thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient 
completion of its Respective Part the Project 
and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2
Sub-loans
A.
Eligibility
Each investment project proposed for inclusion in a Project Province’s 
Respective Part of the Project as a Sub-project shall qualify as a Sub-project 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only if said Project Province 
has determined, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank that the 
conditions set forth below in this Part A have been met; and, in the case of (1) a 
Sub-project under Part B(1) or B(2) of the Project (but excluding Sub-projects to be 
financed by additional loans made pursuant to paragraph 8(c) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement) and (2) a Sub-project under Part B(3), C(1) or C(2) of the Project, the 
Bank has notified said Project Province of the Bank’s approval of said Sub-project.
Beneficiary Eligibility
1.
In the case of a Sub-project under Part B(1), B(2) or B(3)(a) of the Project, 
the Beneficiary is a household which:
(a)
is creditworthy; and
(b)
and has the technical skills and experience required for the carrying out 
of the Sub-project for which said Sub-loan is to be made.
2.
In the case of a Sub-project under Part B(3)(b), C(1) or C(2) of the Project, 
the Beneficiary is an enterprise which: 
(a)
is an entity possessing independent, legal person status, with authority 
to borrow and carry out said Sub-project and operates commercially with responsibility 
for its profits and losses; 
(b)
is creditworthy and has a sound financial structure and has undertaken to 
finance not less than 30% of the cost of its Sub-project in the form of equity 
contributions; 
(c)
has the organization, management, staff and other resources required for 
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including its respective Sub-project;
(d)
has the technical skills and experience required for the carrying out of 
its respective Sub-project; and
(e)
in the case of a Beneficiary proposing to carry out a Sub-project under 
Page  11
Part C(2) of the Project, (i) has developed a suitable marketing plan for its output; 
and (ii) has taken appropriate steps to establish a beef grading and quality assurance 
program (including a time-bound action plan for its implementation), designed to 
ensure that such program is fully operational in all of its processing plants not 
later than 3 years after the completion of the Sub-project.
Sub-project Eligibility
3.
In the case of a Sub-project to be carried out under Part B(1), B(2), B(3), C(1) 
or C(2) of the Project, said Sub-project: 
(a)
is technically feasible, and economically, financially and commercially 
viable; 
(b)
(i) is in compliance with the Environmental Management and Monitoring 
Plan, and all laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection; and (ii) has been prepared in accordance with the 
recommendations of an environmental impact assessment of the Sub-project that has been 
(A) approved by the environmental protection bureau responsible for the locality in 
which said Sub-project is located, and (B) furnished to the Bank; 
(c)
if, as a result of any works to be carried out under said Sub-project, 
any persons would suffer the involuntary loss of shelter, productive assets, access to 
productive assets, income or means of livelihood, a resettlement action plan for all 
said persons:  (i) has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
7(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) has been furnished to, and approved by, 
the Bank; 
(d)
in the case of a Sub-project to be carried out under Part B(1), B(2) or 
B(3) of the Project, is in compliance with livestock production guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank; and
(e)
in the case of a Sub-project to upgrade or expand feedlots under Part 
B(3) of the Project, all feedlots to be so upgraded or expanded shall have a holding 
capacity not to exceed 500 head of cattle per production cycle.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
Terms of Sub-loans
1.
Each Sub-loan shall be denominated in Renminbi (RMB Sub-loan), except for a 
Sub-loan for a Sub-project under Part C(2) of the Project which may be denominated 
either in Dollars (USD Sub-loan) or in Renminbi (RMB Sub-loan), and shall be made by 
the Project Province in which the Sub-project is located on the following principal 
terms:
(a)
The principal amount of each USD Sub-loan made to a Beneficiary for a 
Sub-project shall be equal to the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out 
of the Special Account on account of the cost of goods, works and services required 
for such Sub-project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.  Said 
Beneficiary shall:  repay such principal amount in USD over a period not exceeding: 
(i) ten (10) years, inclusive of a grace period of three (3) years, where said 
Beneficiary is an existing commercial enterprise; and (ii) over a period not exceeding 
fifteen (15) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years, where said 
Beneficiary is a newly-established commercial enterprise, and shall be charged 
interest on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a 
rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant 
to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement.
(b)
The principal amount of each RMB Sub-loan made to a Beneficiary for a 
Sub-project shall be the equivalent in terms of RMB (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special 
Account (as the case may be)) of the amount so withdrawn or paid out on account of the 
cost of goods, works and services required for such Sub-project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan.  Said Beneficiary: (i) shall be charged interest on such 
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate not less than 
the then prevailing rate charged by the Agricultural Bank of China for similar 
Page  12
investments; and (ii) shall repay such principal amount in Renminbi over such period 
as shall be consistent with the then prevailing terms made by the Agricultural Bank of 
China for similar investments.
Conditions of Sub-loans
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be made on conditions whereby the Beneficiary thereof shall 
undertake to perform the following obligations:
(a)
Said Beneficiary shall:  (i) carry out its operations, including its 
Sub-project, with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial practices, and consistent with health, safety, livestock 
development and environmental practices acceptable to the Bank, and provide promptly 
as needed the funds and other resources required for the purpose, and maintain 
adequate records and accounts; and (ii) in the case of a Beneficiary of a Sub-loan 
under Part B(1) or B(2) of the Project for cattle breeding or fattening, undertake to 
participate in the program of forage enhancement referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of such paragraph.
(b)
If, as a result of any works to be carried out under its Sub-project, any 
persons would suffer the involuntary loss of shelter, productive assets, access to 
productive assets, income or means of livelihood, said Beneficiary shall take and 
cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that the living standards and 
productive capacity of all such persons shall be increased in accordance with the 
resettlement plan referred to above in Part A.3(c) of this Annex.
(c)
Said Beneficiary shall procure the goods and services required for its 
Sub-project (directly or through said Project Province) in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize said goods and services 
exclusively in the carrying out of its Sub-project.
(d)
Said Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, 
including such insurance to cover the hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be payable in a currency 
freely usable by the enterprise to replace or repair such goods.
(e)
Said Beneficiary shall enable the Bank to inspect the goods and the sites 
and works included in its respective Sub-project, the operation thereof and any 
relevant records and documents.
(f)
Said Beneficiary shall at all times maintain and operate its equipment 
and facilities, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and industry 
practices.
(g)
Said Beneficiary shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the 
Bank may reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be 
derived from its Sub-project. 
(h)
Each Beneficiary of a Sub-project under Part C(2) of the Project shall 
carry out the beef grading and quality assurance program referred to in Part A.2(e) of 
this Annex in accordance with the action plan referred to in such paragraph.
3.
Each Project Province shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project 
for which it shall have made a Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interests and 
the interests of the Bank, to comply with its obligations under this Agreement and 
achieve the objectives of the Project.
